
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
APPEND ITH
APPENDIXES AND INDEX


1837-1864


PUBLISHED BY THE UNIVERSITY.ANN ARBOR, OCT. 1I5




Of this Volume ONaL I-lJ[tUNDR:L) AND FIP'I'T copies have
been printed under the ecitorship of Pro fessor DIi\tIMO)N.


THE ANN ARBCR PRESS
ANN ARBOR




EDITOR'S PREFAC-E.


The University of Michigan as an organized institution
of Collegiate rank dates from the admission of the State
into the Union. The feeble attempts during the Territorial
days to organize such an institution had all come to naught.
Accordingly, the first Legislature, following the nmandate of
the State Constitution, proceeded to carry out the design
on new lines. A Board of Regents was created to consist
of eiglteen members, six ex ocirio and twelve by appointment of the Governor and Senate. Seven memlbers constituted a quorum. On June 5, 1837, the first meeting of
the Regents was held at Ann Arbor Twhere the University
had been located by legislative enactment the previous
March. At this meeting eleven members were present, and
Governor Mlason presided. From tlis time forward there
were frequent meetings, sometimes in Ann Arbor, more
often in Detroit, which was for ten years the State Capital.
Difficulties were often experienced in securing a quorum,
and there were frequent changes in the personnel of the
Boardl, chiefly by resignation. The business was (lone for
the most part by a few men in and near Detroit.
The Constitution of 185o provided for a smlaller bo(ly.
to consist of one member from each Judicial District, who
should be chosen by popular vote at the April election of
I851 and take office the following January. The objection
to this arrangement was that all the members took office at
the same date for the same term (six years). It was found
in I857 that an entirely new Board of ten had lben chosen 
To obviate this objection an Amenldment to the Constitution
was proposed and adopted, that at the Spring election of
1863 a Board of eight members shoulld be elected on a
general ticket, to take office the following January; and that
these should be divided into four classes of two each, to
serve two, four, six, and eight years respectively. Thereafter, two should be chosen at the Spring election every two
years to serve the full term of eight years. TIlis arrangement is still in force.




iv


iED l.ITO. ' S PREFAI' CL;


The first Board began by printing a record of its proceeclings (.see page 9), but discontinued the practice after
three meetings. The Proceedings from that time to I858
have lain in the original MS. all these years. Many students
of the History of the University have remarked on this
neglect and have wished that these documents might be
printed and thus made secure against injury or destruction.
Accordingly, in June, 1912, the Regents authorized the
printing of these records "for preservation."  Authority
was later given the Editor to include the Proceedings from
IS58 to 1864, inasmuch as these, mluch abridged in printing,
existed in less than half a dozen known copies. The volume
hlere presented contains all that is recorded during the first
and second regimes above described.
The original MS. is in two thick folio volumes of 1129
closely written pages.  During the twenty-seven years
covered by this record ten different men served the Board as
Secretary. The handwritings of these men (or of their
scribes) present considerable variety in legibility, and the
style is not always un.iforml. The Editor has not attempted
any changes beyond the correction of obvious errors. A
few explanatory foot-notes lhave been added in small type.
A word of explanation should be given in regard to the
inclusion of Dr. Tappan's "Review" (pp. i11:9-II66). The
Board that removed him from the Presidency entered upon
their Journal (pp. o179-o081) a defence of their action,
and indulged in some reflections upon his official character
and efficiency. During the first winter after his removal,
while residing in Berlin, he yielded to the urgency of his
friends and prepared the "Review' here appended. For
obvious reasons it was rigidly suppressed at the time, and
very few copies are known to have survived. In view of the
attack just referred to, the present Board have thought it
proper that Dr. Tappan should be heard in his own defence,
as a part of the record of that unhappy controversy.
Mr1. H. L. Sensemann, of the Rhetoric staff, has rendered
invaluable aid in verifying the type-written copy with the
MS., preparing the Index, and assisting with the proofs.
October 20, 1915.                      I. N. D.



