
JULY MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 15, 1999
The Regents convened at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor,
and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Executive Vice President Omenn, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President
and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Chancellor
Renick was absent; Provost Simpson attended in his place.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced the appointment of
Juan Mestas as chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint. Dr. Mestas, who was
present, said that he was honored to be asked to lead the University of Michigan-Flint
campus and he was eagerly looking forward to joining the University of Michigan family.
A round of applause followed.
Resolution in honor of Beverly Schmoll
Regent Taylor called Interim Chancellor Schmoll to the podium and read the
following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan express their sincere
appreciation to Beverly J Schmoll for the leadership and vision she has
provided as interim chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint since August
1, 1998.
A loyal and effective advocate for students, faculty, and staff as well as for
the City of Flint and surrounding communities, Interim Chancellor Schmoll has
provided strong representation for the campus at the Regents' table and in
Lansing.  She facilitated the smooth integration of the Northbank Center
property into the Flint campus and preparations for the new Professional
Studies Classroom Building to be built later this year. She also has made
important contributions to the UM-Flint's self-evaluation for the campus'
upcoming North Central Association accreditation visit.
Interim Chancellor Schmoll has maintained communication with members
of the UM-Flint community through monthly reports, open door sessions she
hostedfor individuals who wished to speak with her personally, and innovative
faculty and staff appreciation activities. Through her own positive outlook and
determination to keep the UM-Flint on course, Interim Chancellor Schmoll has
led the campus community through an important transition and prepared itfor
a new administration.
With deep gratitude and high praise for a challenging assignment
performed masterfully, the Regents commend Beverly J Schmoll for her
distinguished leadership to the University of Michigan-Flint and extend warmest




July Meeting, 1999


best wishes to her as she resumes her duties as dean of graduate programs and
research and as professor ofphysical therapy on the Flint campus.
A round of applause followed. Chancellor Schmoll said that it had been a privilege
to serve as interim chancellor this past year and thanked everyone for their support.
1999-2000 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
President Bollinger called on Executive Vice President Kasdin, who noted that the
University is in excellent financial shape, with a strong balance sheet, a sound health
system, and a general fund operating budget that is fully consistent with the
University's financial health. Maintaining the University's financial health, he said,
involves effectively tracking and managing financial performance; determining whether the
current circumstances are consistent with protecting the University's balance sheet, as
determined by the mix and quality of assets, the relationship of current assets to current
liabilities, and the size and nature of the University's liabilities; and evaluating the
proposed budgets to ensure they maintain the University's overall financial health.
Regarding performance, Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the University
had rotated its outside auditors during the past year. He reported that significant progress
had been made in implementation of the M-Pathways system; that new and consistent
management reports were being developed across the University; and that an ongoing
internal controls task force had been created to review business operating procedures
throughout the University. He also emphasized that close collaboration continues among
the provost, the chief financial officer, and the executive vice president for medical affairs,
noting that this factor is crucial to maintaining the University's financial health.
Executive Vice President Kasdin displayed charts indicating the mix of assets and mix
of liabilities for FY 1998-99. He noted that in evaluating the FY 1999-2000 budgets, he
asked four questions: 1) Are diverse revenue sources being used? 2) Is there a demonstrated
ability to control costs? 3) Is there adequate maintenance of physical properties? and 4) How
is debt being utilized?
In response to the first question, he displayed charts indicating that the University
continues to have diverse revenue streams as compared to FY 1990-91. He pointed out
that the hospitals and health centers constitute a larger proportion of the revenue stream
than it did during 1990-91 (36 percent compared to 43 percent), which indicates that the
activities of the health system have a profound influence on the University's overall
financial circumstances. During this time, state appropriations have gone from 17 percent
of revenue to 12 percent. However, he pointed out that these funds are crucially important
and that the University is grateful to taxpayers for the support they provide.
Excluding the revenue provided by the UM Hospitals and Health Centers, student
fees comprise 30 percent of budgeted FY 1999-2000 revenues and state appropriations
provide 21 percent. He pointed out that investment income provides 5 percent of revenue,
whereas at peer private institutions, investment income provides 20 to 30 percent of the
operating budget. Therefore it is important to increase the role of endowment income in
the operating budget through development efforts and enhancing investment performance.
Vice President Feagin reported that gifts from individuals represent 62 percent of
the total of $175 million in gifts received in FY 1998-99. The fact that this figure


2




July Meeting, 1999


continues to rise is seen as a very positive sign, because these gifts tend to be more
directed toward academic priorities.
Executive Vice President Kasdin displayed a slide which illustrates the University's
demonstrated ability to control actual expenditures as compared to budgeted expenditures.
He observed that the University is committed to putting most of its resources into
rehabilitation of its existing physical plant, as compared to new buildings.
Regarding liabilities, he noted that the important point is not the amount of the
University's debt, but how it is used. The University's philosophy is that debt is a means
of financing, and not of payment, and therefore debt should be used largely to finance
cash flows. He noted that the University adheres to a consistent debt management policy
and it continues to look at opportunities to manage aggressively the related interest
expense.
In conclusion, he observed that the budgets being presented are fully consistent
with maintaining the University's overall financial health, and he recommends their
approval.
1999-2000 Ann Arbor Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Provost Cantor observed that as a great public research university, the
University of Michigan has several missions which include keeping pace with new
knowledge and imparting that knowledge to each generation of students and maintaining the
historical imperative of being inclusive and wide-ranging in programmatic offerings.
Permeable boundaries within the University and with the broader society are needed in order
to fulfill the University's mandate of creating knowledge and applying knowledge in the
public interest. Within the University, she continued, maximum advantage also needs to be
taken of a diversity of methods, people, and ideas so that research, teaching, and service all
contribute to the others' strengths. The hallmark of this budget is the degree to which
people and programs thrive beyond their immediate boundaries.
Provost Cantor asserted that being well-educated implies knowing that there are
multiple ways to an answer, with no sense of certainty that the first way chosen is the only
way. Provost Cantor thanked the state and its citizens for 150 years of support that has
enabled the University to provide a superb faculty, strong shared public culture, and the
richest possible learning environment. She noted that this year's unusually generous state
appropriation has made it possible for the University to seek the lowest increase in
undergraduate tuition rates in over a decade.
She described how the proposed budget reciprocates the generosity of the state and
fulfills the University's mandate, noting that every new venture is built on some prior
advances. Provost Cantor gave a number of examples of such innovation in the context of
existing strength in the proposed budget, including the Center for the Study of Complex
Systems; a laboratory for the study of brain function; reconfiguration and reinvigoration of
the International Institute and the Center for Afroamerican and African Studies to add to the
University's strengths in a global context; the Provost's Academic Program Support, which
allows the provost to respond quickly to emerging academic needs and demands for
innovation; establishment of a state and local policy center within the School of Public
Policy; and funding for the Arts of Citizenship program, a new dramatic writing series,


3




July Meeting, 1999


libraries, the Museum of Art, and the Media Union, all of which enrich the shared public
culture and stretch the classroom from its formal confines into the community. Other areas
of emphasis are LS&A learning centers in writing, languages, math, and science, which
create new forms of collaboration between students and faculty; and enhancement of the
Center for Community Service and Learning, the LS&A First Year Seminars Program, and
the College of Engineering's Curriculum 2000.
Provost Cantor noted that the University budgeting system is a combination of an
activity-based system, in which tuition and research revenues follow the activities that
generate them, and a system of conscious deliberation on the part of the president, provost
and others. This allows for a relatively high variation in the percentage change in budgeted
expenditures across units over a two year period.
The budgeting assumptions for the FY 1999-2000 Ann Arbor General Fund
Operating Budget are an increase in state appropriations of $15.4 million; tuition and fee
increases of 2.8 percent for undergraduate programs and 3.0 percent for most graduate
and professional programs (yielding an increase of $20.3 million); an increase of $1.9
million in indirect cost recovery from sponsored research; internal reallocations and cost
control in a number of areas; and growth in the budget directed as much as possible
towards academic activities. The total recommended General Fund Budget is $928.4
million, an increase of $38.1 million.
Provost Cantor emphasized that over 75 percent of the new General Fund revenues
in this budget is directed toward academic programs. The major initiatives in the FY
2000 budget are providing competitive salaries in order to retain faculty and staff;
strengthening of academic units, including the School of Public Policy, the College of
LS&A, the Museum of Art, and the University Library; and extending the boundaries of
the classroom, through such entities as learning centers, scholars programs, and the
Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program.
Provost Cantor concluded by observing that it is a privilege to speak on behalf of a
University that embraces diversity of people, methods, and ideas, where people do not shy
away from collaborations that are difficult. In this atmosphere, people recognize that
another person may have a better solution than one's own.
Regent McGowan commented that she welcomed the recognition in Provost
Cantor's presentation of the length and strength of generosity of the state. She also said
she appreciated the provost's early articulation from months prior of what the budget
priorities were likely to be, noting that this shows a respect for the funding provided by
students and the public.
1999-2000 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
Interim Vice President Harper introduced several students who were attending the
meeting to represent their student governments: Joshua Trapani from MSA; Seema Pai,
president of LS&A student government; and Damon Fairfield, president of Rackham
student government. She noted that neither MSA nor SLS is requesting additional
funding, but both are in full support of the modest requested increase of $0.50 per
student per term for school and college governments. She said that the funds would be
used to strengthen and support student governments at the school and college level that


4




July Meeting, 1999


provide funding for various student initiatives in the schools and colleges and pointed
out that the last funding increase occurred ten years ago.
Flint Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Interim Chancellor Schmoll observed that the UM-Flint budget reflects a generous
increase of 7.4 percent in state funding, as well as a proposed increase of 2.8 percent for
tuition and fees for lower division undergraduate resident student tuition and fees and
slightly less than 3.0 percent for all other programs. She noted that the budget will
allow the transfer of some programs to base funding that until this point have been
funded through soft funds. It will also provide an opportunity to experiment with
alternative modes of service delivery outside of the traditional classroom setting. The
budget also includes a 3.5 percent salary program.
Dearborn Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee
Rates
Provost Simpson observed that although much of the program on the Dearborn
campus focuses on the undergraduate level, the campus has consciously been expanding
its masters-degree level graduate programs in recent years. He also pointed out that in
keeping with the campus' founding principles of blending the theory of the classroom
and the practical application of work, over 40 percent of its students are engaged in
co-op and internship programs.
He noted that the proposed budget reflects a very generous state appropriation
increase of 8.6 percent and a tuition and selected fee increase of 2.9 percent.
Expenditure increases will focus primarily on three areas: a 3.0 percent merit-based salary
increase, new support for academic programs, and funding for the operation of new
facilities.
A break followed at 10:25 a.m., and the meeting resumed at 10:35 a.m.
1999-2000 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating Budget
Executive Vice President Omenn observed that the Health System has four
components: the Medical School, whose budget is included in the provost's General
Fund Operating Budget; the Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC); M-Care, whose
budget will be presented in the fall; and the Michigan Health Corporation. This budget
presentation focuses on the UMHHC operating budget.
Executive Vice President Omenn observed that added value for patient care is
achieved through the UMHHC's research and training functions, while outstanding patient
services contribute to the strength of educational and research activities. He noted that the
UMHHC's customers include patients and families; referring physicians in other health
systems; people who pay individually for services; employers who purchase health care
services for their employees; private insurers and government agencies, which pay for and
oversee the provision of health care services; and students. He reported that the UMHHC
has improved patient and referring physician satisfaction scores and has increased its
business, thereby spreading fixed costs over a greater volume. He introduced several key
UMHHC administrators: Larry Warren, executive director; Thomas Biggs, chief financial
officer; Kathleen Moore, director of finance; and Douglas Strong, associate vice president
of the University of Michigan Health System for finance and strategy.


5




July Meeting, 1999


Executive Vice President Omenn displayed slides indicating a steady increase in
volume at the health centers, as measured by the number of discharges and clinic visits. To
illustrate the Health System's statewide mission and its focus on enhancement of patient
services, he noted that the UM Comprehensive Cancer Center has a number of
collaborative arrangements with other health centers around the state which work to the
benefit of all, providing the potential for improvements in patient care throughout the state.
Pressure for continuing to reduce costsisi exerted by Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Michigan and the federal and state payers for Medicare and Medicaid, he noted.  He
explained that each of these entities has reduced the rates of reimbursement, making it
necessary for the Health System to absorb more costs and improve productivity. The
combined cumulative impact of these reimbursement rate reductions is greater than $200
million over a five-year period, requiring savings of at least $40 million per year.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that the proposed FY 2000 budget projects
total operating revenue of $864.1 million, an increase of 5.5 percent, which, he said, is
remarkable given the fact that payers are reducing their reimbursements by 4 to 5
percent. Total operating expenses are projected to be $856.941 million, yielding a
projected operating gain of nearly $7.2 million. At a time when other academic medical
centers are experiencing financial difficulties, he concluded that the University of
Michigan Health System is healthy and financially viable and has finished the FY 1999
year in the black. Health System officials believe they can achieve the same outcome for
FY 2000.
Regent Taylor noted that a national magazine had recently published ratings of U.S.
hospitals, and that in every category for which a Michigan hospital was included, the
University of Michigan Health System ranked substantially higher than the others.
Executive Vice President Omenn responded that the magazine had done a survey of 150
physicians in each specialty, asking them to rank the top five hospitals in their specialty in
the country. The survey indicated that the University of Michigan has earned a reputation
as one of the most outstanding hospitals in the st  country.
Regent Brandon commented that it is an extraordinary accomplishment for the hospital
to be in such excellent fiscal condition, especially given the current environment for health
care. Regent Deitch agreed, noting that the current situation is even more remarkable given
predictions made several years ago that the system would not survive unless changes were
made in the operation of the medical center and its relation to the University.
Regent Newman complimented Larry Warren, who has made a successful
transition from chief operating officer to executive director of the UMHHC and is doing
a terrific job. Executive Vice President Omenn also complimented Mr. Warren on his
outstanding achievements.
1999-2000 Department of Athletics Budget
President Bollinger called on Tom Goss, the Donald R. Shepherd Director of
Intercollegiate Athletics. Mr. Goss observed that the University of Michigan has the
best combination of academics and athletics in the country, and he had accepted the
position as athletic director to build on that tradition. He noted that for the past two years,
over 300 student athletes have had grade point averages greater than 3.0 for two semesters


6




July Meeting, 1999


in a row. He said the department intends to continue to field nationally competitive sports
programs and is committed to operating a financially sound program.
Mr. Goss reviewed the core values introduced two years ago in the athletic department.
These include honesty and integrity, accountability, responsibility, respect and compassion,
competitive spirit, and "the team must come first."
Mr. Goss reported that the department is a national and Big Ten Conference leader
in Title IX and gender equity issues. Within the NCAA, he said, the department has taken
a leadership role with its position on freshman eligibility, and is continuing to advocate
against instituting a football playoff game. He noted that during the past year Michigan
had won three national championships and numerous Big Ten Conference championships.
Mr. Goss reported that the department had a projected operating deficit of
approximately $2 million for 1998-99, which will be funded from reserves. As a result of
this situation, he said that the department will have a paradigm shift. In the past, he
explained that the department had been protected from rising costs by increases in royalty
revenues from the sale of licensed merchandise and by a seventh football game. During the
past year, there was no seventh game and royalty revenues hit an all-time low. Although a
strategic plan had been developed in 1997 which emphasized new revenue streams, he said
that in hindsight, it would have been more prudent to also focus on cost control.
announced earlier in the year was necessary and fair. Because the department's needs were
not communicated effectively and the plan was criticized, it was decided to implement a
more modest increase. This will have an impact of $2 million on the 1999-2000 budget. In
the future, the department plans to improve communications and to manage its resources
more effectively. He said that the department is committed to an operating surplus in future
years and will institute safeguards to insure the budget is adhered to. Contingencies are also
built in that will allow adjustments to be made in the second half of the fiscal year if
necessary. For the first time, a capital replacement fund has been established in the
1999-2000 budget.
Mr. Goss then presented details of the proposed budget. He pointed out that during
1998-99 the department had had a number of Academic All-American and Academic
All-Conference athletes. With 11 men's and 12 women's sports, the department won one
national championship, in men's gymnastics, and seven conference championships.
Regarding gender equity, 49.03 percent of the athletes are female.
Mr. Goss said that projected revenues from the FY 2000 budget are $47.6 million, an
increase of 8.2 percent, and that spectator admissions fees constitute the most important
source of revenue. Budgeted expenses total $46.72 million, an increase of 2.1 percent,
yielding a projected surplus of $880,000. This surplus will be used to fund the capital
expenditures budget.
Regent Taylor noted that capital replacement had not been addressed previously and
was now being instituted with symbolic funding. He suggested that a study be conducted to
determine what the capital requirements will be over the next 5-10 years and to then
consider transferring money from the reserve fund into the capital replacement fund so that
adequate funding can begin in this area. Mr. Goss responded that these measures are already
being taken into consideration.


7




July Meeting, 1999


In response to a question from Regent Maynard about implementation of men's
soccer and women's water polo as varsity sports, Mr. Goss noted that soccer will begin
in the fall of 2000 and water polo will begin in January 2001, as planned.
Regent Newman noted that athletic department expenses have increased by 31.4
percent over the last three years, while revenues have only increased by 17.5 percent,
and at this rate, expenses will soon exceed revenues. She said that we need to
understand why expenses are growing at such a high rate and why the rate of
expenditure exceeds the rate of revenue generation, and that these trends are disturbing.
Regent Newman expressed concern about "the misinformation provided
throughout the year to the Regents, the administration, and the general public through
the media." She noted that she had been surprised to learn of the 30 percent increase in
football ticket prices that had been approved by the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics earlier in the year, because information previously provided had indicated that
such an increase was unnecessary. She had received a number of explanations when
she started inquiring about this and focused on the increase in operating expenses as the
only logical explanation.
Regent Newman praised the interim report of the review committee appointed by the
president, noting that it had properly outlined the challenges faced by the department.
However, the report did not address whether the decisions that have been made since then
have addressed the problems, and she believes the decisions need to be reviewed. She said
that it is a question of the management and execution of the plans, not the need to generate
revenue, and she believes that spending money to make money has not been a good
decision.
Regent Newman submitted the following questions: Why will tomorrow be different
from yesterday? What controls have been put into place to monitor the projected budget
for this year? What is the long-term plan for the Department of Athletics?
Mr. Goss responded that the department has instituted procedures to insure that all
teams and departments will operate within their budgets, including regular budget review
meetings at the senior management level. A process will also be developed that will
formally link each budget administrator's fiscal responsibility to that person's
performance evaluation and compensation. Over the long term, the department will
budget revenues realistically and conservatively, will manage expense growth as
described, and will systematically evaluate administrative functions, including staffing
levels and resource allocation.
Regent Newman inquired about the long-term strategic plan for the athletic
department. Mr. Goss said that this would be brought back to the Regents at a later date.
Regent Newman observed that the trend has been toward decreasing revenues and
increasing expenses, and that the long-term plan should describe what will be done to insure
that this trend will be reversed.
Regent Taylor commented that it would be helpful for Regent Newman to present her
questions in writing. He noted that he did not agree with her comments that the Regents
were given misinformation about departmental finances.
Regent Homing observed that the Athletic Department Financial Advisory Committee
was charged with a two-stage mission. The first stage, dealing with budgetary matters, has


8




July Meeting, 1999


been addressed, and the next stage, involving reporting lines, communications, and the role
of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, is yet to be completed. Executive Vice
President Kasdin clarified that the first report of the committee addressed the question of
whether the Department of Athletics is in financial equilibrium, and the second stage, which
is to be completed in the coming months, will be addressing issues of governance.
Regent Newman said that she did not mean to imply that Mr. Goss had provided
misinformation to the Regents. Rather, she was addressing the lack of information that
had been provided about issues that came to light in press coverage.
Regent Taylor observed that a recent newspaper article implied that the $2 million
deficit will have a profound impact, but his understanding is that this is untrue and the deficit
will not affect any planned programs. Mr. Goss confirmed this, noting that the department
has healthy reserves to cover the deficit.
Regent White commented that she is pleased that the department is approaching
gender equity. She noted that achieving gender equity can be expensive, and these
efforts could be contributing to the department's financial situation. However, she
commended the department's progress over the past two years.
Regent Brandon inquired at what point did the department realize that there would
be a deficit. Mr. Goss responded that the department had received a letter from its
licensing company on March 16, indicating that licensing revenues would be off by
about $2.1 million from the previous year. At that point, with 90 days left in the fiscal
year, adjustments had to be made very quickly. He noted that ticket prices are one of the
few revenue sources that the department can control, and thus ticket price increases are
critical to the department if it is to be a leader in building teams that can be nationally
competitive. Corporate sponsorships, which involve contracts, are the other predictable
source of income. He pointed out that costs are easier to control than revenues, and that
the management team is focusing on this aspect.
Regent Deitch commented that budget making is reflective of, and a driver of, policy
decisions, as exemplified by Provost Cantor's presentation of the General Fund budget. He
observed that policy choices involving both revenues and expenditures have influenced the
athletic department budget, in a manner similar to policy decisions that have driven the
Health System budget.  However, the Health System operates in a simpler, more
businesslike environment than has been imposed on the Department of Athletics.
For example, to increase revenues, Regent Deitch observed that the department
could institute a number of measures, such as adding additional football games, adding
sky boxes and seat licenses, and naming arenas for corporate sponsors. However, due
to academic and other considerations, University leadership has consciously decided
against pursuing these revenue enhancement options.
On the issue of football ticket prices, Regent Deitch noted that an increase from
$27 to $35 had been proposed earlier in the year. This was ultimately rolled back,
which had a revenue implication of $2 million per year. He believes the decisiobelieves to roll
back prices was wrong, due to the fact that Michigan athletics is an entertainment
product, and that this fact ought to determine pricing. Students are the only consumers,
he believes, who deserve subsidized, below-market prices and complete access to


9




July Meeting, 1999


Michigan athletic events. The remainder of the fans deserve fair pricing, but only in the
context of what the market will support.
Regent Deitch observed that he believes he was completely and properly informed
on all elements related to the ticket increase. He believes that if the University does not
allow the market to dictate prices, budgets will be constrained and will be politically
motivated, rather than motivated by sound business decisions.
On the expense side, Regent Deitch noted that achieving gender equity costs
money and is an example of the fact that policy decisions regarding the role of athletics
in the University drive expenditure decisions. He believes that the athletic department
budget reflects choices that have been made.
Regent Taylor and Regent White both associated themselves with Regent Deitch's
remarks.
The meeting recessed at this point, at 11:50 a.m. President Bollinger noted that
due to the absence of any speakers, the public comments session scheduled for the
afternoon session would not be used.
The meeting reconvened at 1:35 p.m. Present were President Bollinger and Regents
Brandon, Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present
were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President
Wilbanks. Chancellor Renick was absent; Provost Simpson attended in his place. Interim
Chancellor Schmoll was also absent; Provost McLaughlin attended in her place.
President Bollinger called for votes on each individual budget proposal.
Proposed Ann Arbor FY 1999-00 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Ann Arbor FY 1999-2000 General Fund Operating
Budget.
Proposed Ann Arbor FY 1999-00 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Ann Arbor FY 1999-2000 student tuition and fee
rates, as described in the Regents Communication.
1999-2000 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved fee assessments of $5.69 per student per term for MSA, $5.50 per
student per term for SLS, and $1.50 per student per term for school/college governments.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 1999-2000 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Dearborn Campus FY 1999-2000 General Fund
Operating Budget.


10




July Meeting, 1999


Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 1999-2000 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved the proposed Dearborn Campus FY 1999-2000 Student Tuition and Fee Rates, as
described in the Regents Communication.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 1999-2000 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Flint Campus FY 1999-2000 General Fund
Operating Budget.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 1999-2000 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Flint Campus FY 1999-2000 Student Tuition and
Fee Rates, as described in the Regents Communication.
Proposed FY 2000 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed FY 2000 University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health Centers Operating Budget.
FY 1999-2000 Budgets
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the FY 1999-2000 revenue and expenditure operating budgets.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted for approval the
minutes of the June 17, 1999, meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the
Investment Report, the Plant Extension Report, and the Regents Report on Noncompetitive
Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, April 1, 1999, through June 30, 1999.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects Established
for June 1999.
University of Michigan Health System.  Executive Vice President Omenn
observed that a local newspaper had inaccurately reported the proposed room rate
increase for the University of Michigan Hospitals. He also reported that the Health
System was continuing to aggressively recruit new faculty members.
Student Affairs. Interim Vice President Harper called attention to the recommended
appointment of Frank Cianciola as interim associate vice president for student affairs
and dean of students.
Dearborn Campus. Provost Simpson called attention to the appointment of Sidney
M. Bolkosky as the William E. Stirton Professor of History. He also reported that the
Dearborn campus would be collaborating with several local organizations on the Gateway
Project, which would be studying the redevelopment of the Rouge River corridor.


11




July Meeting, 1999


Flint Campus. Provost McLaughlin reported on the results of a survey of incoming
freshmen on the Flint Campus. She also described some recent achievements of the
Honors Program and the International Studies Program.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin said that a formal report on voluntary
support for FY 1998-99 would be presented at the September meeting.
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor called attention to the recommended
appointment of Michael Kennedy as vice provost for international affairs and director of
the International Institute. President Bollinger announced the appointment of Bernard
W. Klein as interim chancellor of UM-Dearborn.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Bass, Hyman, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Boyd, lain D., Ph.D., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering
Fomin, Sergey, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Irvine, Judith T., Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2000
Laine, Richard M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College
of Engineering
Levinsohn, James A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor of Public Policy,
without tenure, to Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, School of Public Policy
McCracken, Peggy, Ph.D., Associate Professor of French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Mestas, Juan E., Ph.D., Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
and Chancellor, UM-Flint, five year term, September 20, 1999
Northouse, Laurel L., Ph.D., Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
Yaghi, Omar M., Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Young, David T., Ph.D., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of Engineering
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999
Vlahopoulos, Nickolas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering, College of Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999
Bailey, Charles W., Chair, Department of Social Work, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services, one year term, July 1, 1999
Gordan, Virginia B., Assistant Dean for International Programs, Law School, three year term
Herbert, Sharon C., Chair, Department of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
two year term
Jones, Charles A., Interim Dean, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, six month term,
July 1, 1999
Kunkel, Steven L., Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, one year term
Periard, Mary E., Interim Dean, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies, one year term,
July 1, 1999
Uher, Ctirad, Chair, Department of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term


12




July Meeting, 1999


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Bean, James C., from Ford Motor Company Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute to
Associate Dean for Graduate Education, College of Engineering, five year term, September 1,
1999
Bissell, R. Ward, Chair, Department of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, three
year term, August 1, 1999
Diana, James S., Associate Dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, November 1, 1999 -June 30, 2002
Lee, John C., Chair, Department of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, five year term, September 1, 1999
Pintrich, Paul R., Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Smith, Gerald R., Director, Herbarium, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, three year term
Solon, Gary, Chair, Department of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1, 1999-July 31, 2002
Welsh, Michael J., Acting Chair, Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, one year
term, September 1, 1999
Woestehoff, Sue A., Chair, Department of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
one year term
Zimmerman, Marc A., Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Weinstein, Michael I., Professor Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing New Academic Administrative Position
Vice Provost for International Affairs (Office of the Provost) and Director of International Institute
(College of Literature, Science, and the Arts), July 1, 1999
Establishing Professorships
Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professorship in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1999
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professorship in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five year renewable term, September 1, 1999
Peter S. Fuss Professorship in Engineering, College of Engineering, five year renewable term, July 1, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Bolkosky, Sidney M., William E. Stirton Professor of History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 1999-June 30, 2004,
Bums, Nancy E., Henry Simmons Frieze Collegiate Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year term
Chinkin, Christine M., L. Bates Lea Visiting Professor of Law, Law School, four month term
Eisenberg, Rebecca S., Robert and Barbara Luciano Professor of Law, Law School, five year term
Frier, Bruce W., Henry King Ransom Professor of Law, Law School, five year term
Gelman, Susan, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five
year term
Glick, Gary D., Werner E. Bachmann Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, five year term


13




July Meeting, 1999


Lee, Fiona, Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Mitchell, William G., Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business Administration,
School of Business Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Schneider, Carl E., Chauncey Stillman Professor of Ethics, Morality, and the Practice of Law, Law
School, five year term
Talbot, Frederick B., Keith E. and Valerie J. Alessi Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Travis, Charles, Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four month term
Walsh, James P., Gerald and Esther Carey Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Other Transactions
Ashford, Susan J., from Associate Dean to Senior Associate Dean, School of Business Administration,
five year term, July 1, 1999
Cianciola, Frank J., from Associate Dean of Students to Interim Associate Vice President for Student
Affairs and Dean of Students, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, August 1, 1999
Horton, Marjorie, Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year term
Kennedy, Michael D., from Director, Center for Russian and Eastern European Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Vice Provost for International Affairs (Office of the Provost)
and Director of the International Institute (College of Literature, Science, and the Arts), July 1, 1999
Klein, Bernard W., Interim Chancellor, UM-Dearborn, July 16, 1999
Mackie-Mason, Jeffrey K., from Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, Associate
Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate
Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to Professor of Information, with
tenure, School of Information, Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Pinkard, Nichole, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2001, vice Robert E. Grese, term expiring
Sheets, Kent J., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2001, vice Willis C. Patterson, term expiring
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Corrections to previously approved appointments
Kuntzelman, Charles T., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001 (previously approved through June 30, 2000)
Maloy, Bernard P., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000 (previously approved through June 30, 2001)
Personnel reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Advincula, Arnold P., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 12, 1999 -July 30, 2001
Ahmed, Asra Z., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School
Ahuvia, Aaron, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2002
Berwanger, Paula D., M.A., Lecturer II in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Bishop, Stephen L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Brenner, Merle J., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Bullard, Mary A., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Cornejo-Krohn, Lourdes, M.A., Lecturer III in Spanish, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 1, 2002
Curatti, Patricia R., M.S., Lecturer in Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies


14




July Meeting, 1999


Dayon, Amy M., M.S., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies, Air Force Officer Education Program,
three year term, May 26, 1999
Dorfeld, Kenneth J., Ph.D., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School
Fleming, Monique A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Gupta, Sanjiv, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Hassan, Diana M. G., Ph.D., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Heidelbaugh, Joel J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, August 9, 1999 -August 8, 2000
Herbst, Patricio G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2003
Jackson, Deborah D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Janaki, Moni, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Kelly, Nanette F., M.S., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Krasan, Graham P., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Lal, Nirish R., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Lancaster, Scott R., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Liu, J. Rebecca, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Martin, Katherine E., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Mendelson, Nina A., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Morgan, Stephanie M., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Olynk, Patricia J., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2002
Orsinelli, August M., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Pickett, Linda K., M.A., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Propeck, Tim, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Redd, Donna D., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School
Rier, Steven T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Ross, Theodora S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Schmall, Robert J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Shackleton, Kristine L., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Skye, Eric P., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Terry, Charles M., B.A., Lecturer in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2002
Thomas, Susan E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002
Wahtera, Kirk A., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Williams, James A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Boyd, Charles M., from Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Otorhinolaryngology and Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Collier, Phillip J., from Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Cordes, Eugene H., from Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor
of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, June 1, 1999- May 31, 2000
Cueto, Rudy A., from Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000


15




July Meeting, 1999


Domino, Steven E., from Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Lee, Denis C., from Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and Professor of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, without tenure, Medical School, to
Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, July 1, 1999
Lee, Peter J., from Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Naughton, Norah N., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, also appointed
Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30,
2000
Rosen, David S., from Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 1998-July 31, 2000
Wei, John T., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery to Assistant Professor of
Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
November 1, 1999-October 31, 2000
Headington, John T., Professor Emeritus of Pathology and Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, Medical
School, May 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering
and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, June 1-November 31, 1999
LaDu, Bert N., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
McKeachie, Wilbert J., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
O'Connor, Patricia A., Associate Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, September 1, 1998-August 31, 2000
Paul, Ara G., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, May 1 -December 31, 1999
Stem, Aaron M., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
December 1, 1999-November 30, 2000
Tien, Tseng-Ying, Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering, College of Engineering, June 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Weikart, Phyllis S., Associate Professor Emerita of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, May 1 -August 31, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Akiyama, M. Michael, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Atreya, Sushil K., Professor of Atmospheric and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Barker, John R., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of Engineering,
and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Barsky, Robert B., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Boyd, John P., Professor of Atmospheric Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Butter, Charles M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999, and retirement furlough, September 1-December 31, 1999
Chen, Peter M., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Dolgachev, Igor, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Drabenstott, Karen M., Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,2000


16




July Meeting, 1999


D'Silva, Nisha J., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, child care leave, February 25 -April 10, 1999
Dunkle, Ruth E., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2000
Eisenberg, Rebecca S., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching assignment
Filisko, Frank E., Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Goldberg, Deborah E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave
Grigely, Joseph C., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave
Hunter, Andrea G., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, personal
leave, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Jahanian, Farnam, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Jayaratne, Srinika D., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,2000
Kravaris, Costas, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, personal leave
Kuwada, John Y., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave
Lawson, Jacqueline E., Associate Professor of English Language, Literature, and Communications, with
tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999 -April 30, 2000
Lee, Denis C., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, retirement furlough, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Lee, Valerie E., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave
Lin, Ann C., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, scholarly activity leave
Martin, Karin A., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Morris, Charles G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Moy, Allen, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave
Ortega, Robert M., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave
Payton, Sallyanne, Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave
Powell, Thomas J., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2000
Prins, Johanna H., Associate Professor of English Language and Comparative Literature, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Railton, Peter A., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus
Rodemer, Carl M., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, scholarly activity leave,
September 15, 1999-May 31, 2000
Scott, Rebecca J., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September
1-December 31,1999
Sears, Elizabeth L., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Sellers, Robert M., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Simon, Carl P., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Policy, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Srolovitz, David J., Edward D. Campbell Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and Professor of
Materials and Science Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, personal leave
Stembridge, John R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Tonomura, Hitomi, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Tosney, Kathryn W., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Wong, Victor K., Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, administrative
leave, June 1-August 31, 1999
Woodard, Ronald W., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with tenure, College of
Pharmacy, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1999


17




July Meeting, 1999


Zirbes, Georgette M., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Porter, David L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant Professor of
Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, (cancel scholarly activity
leave, approved for September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000,)
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Bord, Donald J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and the
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-February 28, 1999 (previously reported as September
1-December 31, 1998)
Wright, Susan P., Lecturer III in History of Science, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1998-December 31, 1999 (previously reported
as September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Betz, A. Lorris, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of Pediatrics,
without tenure, and Professor of Surgery, without surgery, Medical School, May 31, 1999
Blumstein, Sylvie L., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 1, 1999
Bromberg, Jonathan S., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Delaney-Sathy, Lydia O., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Forman, Glenn M., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
June 30, 1999
Gordon, James A., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Huet, Marie-Helene, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of French, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Kacen, Jacqueline J., Assistant Professor of Marketing, UM-Dearbom School of Management, April 30, 1999
Kalil, Ariel, Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 30, 1999
Kinney, Carol J., Lecturer III in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Krakowiak, Peter A., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 21, 1999
Patel, Dakshesh S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Venugopal, Ravinder, Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering, July 2, 1999
Wu, Yingnian, Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Retired
Daly, David A., Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with tenure, School of
Education, May 31, 1999
Das, Sunil K., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Heirich, Max A., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1999
Kelsey, Charles C., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1999
Leighton, Neil O., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 1999
West, Kenneth B., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31,
1999
Term Completed
Ballester, Christina B., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Bilsky, Eric A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, June 30, 1999
Chimbayo, Alexander, Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 21, 1998
Dreiser, Petra, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Gong, Xianghong, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1999


18




July Meeting, 1999


Hittinger, Jennifer L. F., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 1999
McKee, E. Shane, Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
1999
Mead, David W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, without
tenure, and Associate Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, May 31, 1999
Price, Margaret B., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Speights, Steven E., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Stevens, Jacqueline A., Assistant Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Terminated
Mukherjee, Srilata, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1999
Retirement memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted retirement memoirs for
four faculty members.
David A. Daly, Ed.D., associate professor of education and speech pathology in
the School of Education, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.
A native of Michigan, Professor Daly received his B.A. degree from      Central
Michigan University in 1963, his M.A. degree from The Ohio University in 1964, and
his Ed.D. degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1968. From 1968-73, he was a
faculty member at the University of Alabama in Birmingham. He joined the faculty of
the University of Michigan in 1973 as an assistant professor of speech pathology and
was promoted to associate professor in 1975. When the Speech and Hearing Sciences
Program became a part of the School of Education, he became associate professor of
education and speech pathology. Professor Daly also served as director of Shady Trails,
the University's speech and hearing camp, from 1973-81 and director of the
Communicative Disorders Clinic from 1978-80.
Professor Daly is an international expert on cluttering and stuttering, and he has had
considerable impact on how clinicians deal with such fluency disorders through his
numerous presentations and publications. Through his service as an officer and member
of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association and the Michigan SpeechLanguage-Hearing Association, Professor Daly's influence has extended nationwide.
He also shared his expertise through workshops and seminars offered through school
districts and professional organizations.
When he joined the School of Education, Professor Daly expanded his focus to
include such special education areas as learning disabilities and attention deficit
disorders, both of which related well to his ongoing research interests in language/
learning disordered youngsters who clutter. This expanded focus proved invaluable to
students in the school's Master of Arts with Certification Program in which Professor
Daly participated extensively in recent years. He found his work with graduate students
very rewarding and the feeling was highly reciprocated.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming David A. Daly associate
professor emeritus of education and speech pathology.
Max A. Heirich, Ph.D., professor of sociology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and research scientist in the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1999.
Professor Heirich received his B.A. degree from Earlham College in 1953 and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California at Berkeley in 1963 and 1967,


19




July Meeting, 1999


respectively. From 1954-60, he was projects director, then college secretary for the
American Friends Committee. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer
in January 1967. He was named assistant professor that same year and was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1998, serving both the Department of
Sociology and the Residential College. Additionally, Professor Heirich was appointed
associate research scientist in 1985 and research scientist in 1999 with the Institute of
Labor and Industrial Relations, where he also served as director of the Worker Health
Program from 1995-99.
Professor Heirich has made significant scholarly contributions to the sociological
study of social movements, religion, and health. Two early books (1970 and 1971)
analyzed "the spiral" of student protests in the 1960s and remain among the most
influential works on this topic. Professor Heirich's 1977 article on religious conversion
has become a citation classic among scholars of religion. More recently, Professor Heirich
has directed his scholarly efforts toward more applied research and policy evaluation
focusing on health and wellness. He is the author of five books and monographs and more
than 30 journal articles and has served as principal investigator on several federallyfunded research projects related to health and wellness. He chaired an effort to establish
national standards for wellness programs and played a leading role in the extension of
health care services to under served populations.
Professor Heirich has been an outstanding teacher at both the graduate and
undergraduate levels, shepherding many graduate students through their theses and
receiving awards for both undergraduate teaching and undergraduate counseling. Known
for his warmth and collegiality, Professor Heirich's many and unique contributions to the
University will be sorely missed.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Max A. Heirich professor
emeritus of sociology and research scientist emeritus.
Wilfred G. Marston, Ph.D., professor of sociology, College of Arts and Sciences,
University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1999.
Born in Seattle, Professor Marston received his B.A. degree in 1958 from Seattle
Pacific University and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1963 and 1966, respectively, from
the University of Washington. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint
in 1970 as associate professor and the first chair of the Department of
Sociology/Anthropology. He was promoted to professor in 1974 and served as chair
until 1976, as well as several other times in the 1980s and the 1990s. He also chaired the
Urban Studies Program, served on the College of Arts and Sciences Executive
Committee and was a member of the Masters of Liberal Studies faculty. Professor
Marston was instrumental in the formation of the department's social work and criminal
justice programs during his tenure as chair.  He initiated the highly successful
credit-producing student field trips to Toronto, Chicago, and New York.
Professor Marston's research and writing focused primarily on race, ethnic, and
class segregation in U.S. and Canadian urban communities. A number of his writings
have been published in professional journals, including the American Journal of
Sociology, Social Forces, and the Canadian Review of Sociology/Anthropology. He also
wrote a comprehensive monograph on the population and spatial profile of the Flint
community using data from 1940-70.


20




July Meeting, 1999


The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Wilfred G. Marston
professor emeritus of sociology.
David N. Williams, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.
Professor Williams received his B.A. degree in physics and philosophy in 1956
from Maryville College and his Ph.D. degree in 1964 from the University of California
at Berkeley. He moved on to postdoctoral studies at the Eidgen6ssische Technische
Hochschule in Zirich, the Centre d'Etudes Nucleaires, in Saclay, France, and the Institute
for Advanced Study in Princeton. He joined the University of Michigan as an assistant
professor of physics in 1967 and was promoted to associate professor in 1973 and
professor in 1980. He served on various departmental committees and was a graduate
advisor from 1985-95.
His research interests have generally been in quantum field theory, with a mathematical
physics orientation. In the earlier part of his career, he did important work on invariant
scattering amplitudes free of kinematic singularities. He was a major author of the proof of
Stapp's Theorem on Lorentz covariant holomorphic functions. Later, he published work on
the mathematical theory of unstable particles and Euclidean quantum field theory. In recent
years, he has been interested in the triviality problem for quantum field theory. He has also
focused recently on the development of software for algebraic manipulation, related to M.
Veltman's Schoonschip program. He plans to remain active in these areas for the next few
years.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming David N. Williams professor
emeritus of physics.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco reported the death of an active faculty
member.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with great sadness the
death on May 8, 1999, of Larry Karl Flanigan, associate professor of electrical
engineering & computer science, College of Engineering.
Professor Flanigan was born in 1934 in Indianapolis, Indiana. He received his B.S.
degree in electrical engineering and his B.S. degree in business administration, both in
1958, from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He received his M.S. degree in
management science in 1960, his M.S. degree in communication sciences in 1962, and his
Ph.D. degree in communication sciences 1965 from the University of Michigan.
Professor Flanigan joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in
the computer and communication sciences department in 1965. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1973. He served as the department chair from 1976-80. His
involvement with the Computing Center during the early years of computing at the
University of Michigan was instrumental in educating users by way of two manuals he
authored: "Introduction to PIL in MTS" and "Introduction to the Computing Center and
to MTS."
He served as the concentration advisor for computer science students with enthusiasm
and dedication. His love of teaching and respect for his students earned him many
accolades, including the department's Teaching Excellence Award. There was fierce
competition for the opportunity to attend both his graduate and undergraduate courses. His
graduate student instructors and students enthusiastically submitted letters of praise and


21




July Meeting, 1999


commendation for his style and ability to motivate them through his own example. The
combination of his knowledge in computing and his ability as a teacher led to invitations to
present lectures in Israel and Chile.
His desire for the programming curriculum at the University to be of the highest
caliber was evidenced by his consistent participation in curriculum review and
assessment activities.
He was admired, respected, and appreciated in every role he fulfilled. He will be
dearly missed by his colleagues, students, and support staff. His positive attitude and
broad smile brought warmth to the days of all those that came into contact with him.
Our deepest condolences go out to his children: Kevan, Bradley, Melanie, and
Elizabeth; his sister, Lyn Anzai; and his grandchildren: Alyson, Brooke, Christian, and
Catherine.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval the final degree lists for April,
May, and June, 1999 commencements; the August 1999 doctoral degree list; and
changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Camp Knight on Douglas Lake, Cheboygan County, Michigan
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a request for purchase of Camp
Knight, located adjacent to the University's Biological Station on Douglas Lake in
Cheboygan County, Michigan, at a purchase price of $1.8 million. He noted that the
price is above the appraised value, but is equal to a written bid by a third party. He
reported that both the provost and dean of LS&A believe that the preservation of this
land from commercial development is crucial to the continued academic work at the
Biological Station. Funding for the purchase will be provided by private donations; the
Biological Station; the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and the Office of
the Provost.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the acquisition of Camp Knight at a purchase
price not to exceed $1.8 million, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Maynard seconded the motion, noting that she was pleased that the University would be
able to purchase the property, as residents of Douglas had expressed concern over its
fate and had contributed funds towards its purchase.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the appraisal process can be
questioned in view of the fact that the bids received exceeded the appraised value.
However, these bids indicate that $1.8 million is a fair estimate of the market price.
Regent Horning observed that it appears that there is a large portion of property
around Douglas Lake that is not owned by the University and that the lake has already
been subjected to residential development. Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed
out that although property owners who live on the lake willingly donated money to
assist in the University's purchase of the property, the decision to purchase the property
was not based on considerations of property owners. Rather, it is viewed as a critically
important research facility for the College of LS&A.


22




July Meeting, 1999


Regent Deitch noted that a condominium development had been proposed for the
property, and this type of development leads to "funnel development," which increases
exponentially motorboat and similar types of activity as opposed to what occurs with
single-family homes, and that such development would in turn would have an impact on
the Biological Station.
Provost Cantor emphasized that acquisition of this property is considered critical
to the Biological Station, as faculty fear that any further development in the proximity
of the Biological Station would undermine their experimental work. These concerns led
to stopping work on another project closer to campus in order to divert those funds
toward acquisition of the Douglas Lake property.
Vice President Wilbanks reported that for many years, the Department of Natural
Resources has been interested in developing public access to Douglas Lake, and
language is inserted in the bill each year to encourage the state not to pursue this due to
the impact such access would have on the lake.
Regent Newman observed that she does not dispute the importance of the
academic mission, but disagrees with the notion of spending money above the appraised
value to purchase a piece of land merely to keep someone else from developing it.
Provost Cantor noted that private donations from homeowners on the lake are
supplying about one-third of the purchase price, but they will have no ownership rights.
Regent McGowan reiterated that this property is critical to the academic mission of the
College of LS&A.
The vote was then taken, and the motion passed, with Regents Brandon, Deitch,
Maynard, McGowan, Taylor, and White in favor, and Regents Horning and Newman
opposed.
Literature, Science, and the Arts Building Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the University is ready to initiate
planning for the Literature, Science, and the Arts Building renovation project, funding
for which will be partially provided by the state. On a motion by Regent Deitch,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Literature,
Science, and the Arts Building renovation project and authorized contracting with the
firm of SHG Incorporated for its design.
Life Sciences Institute Building Project and Palmer Drive Parking Structure Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin presented a recommendation for commissioning
the firms of SHG Incorporated and Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates, Inc. (VSBA)
to design the institute building, with SHG as the architect of record, and the
appointment of VSBA as the design firm for the parking structure, working in
conjunction with Desman Associates. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the site, the architects, and
initiating programming and design activities for the Life Sciences Institute building
project and the Palmer Drive parking structure project.


23




July Meeting, 1999


Kellogg Eye Center Second Level Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved renovation of the second level of Kellogg Eye Center, as
described in the Regents Communication.
Taubman Medical Library Renovations
Regent Brandon moved approval of the budget and authorization to issue the
project for bids and award a construction contract for renovations to the Taubman
Medical Library for graduate student programs, lobby, circulation, and reserve
collections. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Medical Science Buildings 1 and 2 Renovations for Bioinformatics
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for renovation of approximately 2,200 square feet of
existing space in Medical Science Buildings 1 and 2, as described in the Regents
Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals Mott Hospital South Roof Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved replacement of the south roof of C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.
University of Michigan Hospitals Domestic Hot Water Piping Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacement of the domestic hot water piping in the
University of Michigan Hospitals.
University of Michigan Hospitals Patient Room Flooring Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacing the flooring in approximately 300 patient
rooms in levels 4-8 of the adult hospital.
Regent Taylor left the meeting at this point, at about 2:00 p.m. and was not present
for any of the succeeding votes.
Purchasing Contract with Clark-MXR, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Clark-MXR, Inc. Because
Professor Gerard Mourou is both a University of Michigan employee and a partial owner
of Clark-MXR, Inc., this contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research, include the
purchase of unique optical equipment totaling $5,840.
3.  Professor Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his position as partial owner of
Clark-MXR, Inc.


24




July Meeting, 1999


Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mott Children's Health
Center (MCHC)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Mott Children's Health Center (MCHC). Because Daniel M. Briskie, D.D.S., is both
the director of MCHC and is an adjunct faculty member at the University of Michigan, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mott Children's Health
Clinic.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance is two years at a total cost of $10,369.
3.   Dr. Briskie's pecuniary interest arises from his position as director of MCHC.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and T/J Technologies,
Inc. (T/J Technologies)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of
Michigan and T/J Technologies, Inc. (T/J Technologies). Because Levi T. Thompson,
Jr., is both a University of Michigan employee and chief executive officer of T/J
Technologies, and his wife, Maria, is president and chief operating officer of T/J
Technologies, and they hold 27 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of the company's
stock, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and T/J Technologies, Inc.
2.   Agreement terms: The award document is a purchase order issued by T/J Technologies
for billing purposes only. The period of performance will be one year at a total cost of
$29,950.
3.   Levi and Maria Thompson's pecuniary interests arise from their partial ownership of
T/J Technologies.
University of Michigan-Flint Professional Studies and Classroom Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that bids received for this previously
approved project had come in over budget, but due to an additional pledge of financial
support from the Mott Foundation and "value engineering," the new budget was able to
be met. The current understanding is that state officials will allow the University to
re-bid only the portion of the project involving prefabricated concrete and some
mechanical equipment, rather than the whole project. If, however, it is decided that the
entire project needs to be re-bid, it will be brought back to the Regents for consideration
in September. Regent Maynard moved approval of the revised budget and authorization
of the award of a construction contract to Sorenson Gross Construction Company, Inc.,
as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Following some discussion, the vote was then taken and the Regents authorized
proceeding with the project if the state agreed to allow the University to move forward
without having to re-bid the entire job.


25




July Meeting, 1999


Michigan Student Assembly Financial Report
Interim Vice President Harper submitted the Michigan Student Assembly annual
financial report for December 31, 1998, and December 31, 1997.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Annual Business Plan
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved the MHC 1999-2000 annual business plan, as submitted.
Establishment of the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for
Entrepreneurial Studies
Provost Cantor observed that establishment of the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies was made possible by generous gifts of $5 million
each from Samuel Zell and Ann Lurie. Regent Newman moved approval of the
establishment of the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies
in the School of Business Administration. Regent Deitch seconded the motion. Regent
Newman commented that she believes this is a very exciting development and was thrilled
to learn of it. Regent Deitch agreed, stating that he believes it will be a "fabulous thing for
the University."
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously by all seven
Regents present.
Change in Name of Department of Environmental and Industrial Health
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of
Environmental and Industrial Health in the School of Public Health to the Department
of Environmental Health Sciences.
Nontenure Track Clinical Appointment Sequence in the UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved a nontenure track clinical appointment sequence in the
School of Health Professions and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint.
New Degree Program for UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science
("Master of Science in Software Engineering")
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved establishment of the "Master of Science in Software
Engineering" degree program in the UM-Dearborn College of Engineering.
Annual Report of UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget and Finance Board
The Regents received the Annual Report of UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget
and Finance Board.
Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby gave a presentation highlighting the achievements of
Marshall Nirenberg (Ph.D., biochemistry, 1957), who received a Nobel Prize in 1968
for his work in cracking the genetic code. This work laid the foundation for many of the


26




July Meeting, 1999


developments that have been made since that time in DNA and the understanding of
cell behavior.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 2:30 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for September 16-17, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


27




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 16, 1999
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice President
Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice President and
General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White
was absent. Interim Chancellor Schmoll was also absent; Provost McLaughlin attended
in her place. Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the start of the meeting.
Motion to Meet in Non-formal Session
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Regent Maynard, who
read the following motion:
I move that we adjourn this formal session of the Regents and begin a
non-formal session for the purpose of conferring with legal counsel.
Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting continued in non-formal session until 2:40 p.m.
The meeting reconvened at 2:40 p.m. President Bollinger read the following letter
from Regent Katherine White, dated August 20, 1999:
Dear President Bollinger.
I am writing this letter to you to be read into the record at the September
meeting of the University of Michigan Board of Regents. I am currently on
sabbatical from the Wayne State University Law School for the fall semester. I
have won a Fulbright Senior Scholar Award to the Max Planck Institute for
Foreign and International Patent, Copyright, and Competition Law in Munich,
Germany. Pursuant to this award, I will be researching issues relating to
improving technology transfer between universities and industry. In particular, I
will be comparing and contrasting the technology transfer systems of Germany,
the United States, and the United Kingdom with the purpose of improving our
technology transfer system. This project will assist in furthering my mission to
build a bridge between education, science, and industry to benefit the state of
Michigan.
Established in 1946, under congressional legislation introduced by the late
Senator J William Fulbright of Arkansas, the Fulbright Program was designed
to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and
the people of other countries. During my time in Munich, I have already met
people from all over the world including scholars from Bulgaria, China, Costa
Rica, Columbia, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Indonesia, Latvia, Japan, and
Thailand. Ifrequently converse with these scholars about various legal issues
regarding intellectual property and competition law, as we are all here to learn
from each other.


27




September Meeting, 1999


Because I am in Munich, I will not be able to attend the September and
October Board of Regents' Meetings. I will be available by phone, however.
Although I will not return to the U.S. permanently until January 15th, I will
return to attend the November and December Board of Regents' meetings.
Sincerely,
Katherine E. White
Regent
Death of William H. Polliey
President Bollinger expressed condolences on behalf of the University to the family
of William H. (Bill) Polliey, a University electrician who died August 30, 1999, following
an August 2nd accident that occurred during renovations to the G. G. Brown Building.
Department of Public Safety
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced William Bess, director of public safety,
who was attending his first Regents' Meeting. He noted that Mr. Bess had been selected
through a very broad-based, rigorous interview process, and that the decision to offer him
the position of director had been unanimous. He also noted that members of the campus
community continue to be equally impressed by Mr. Bess since his arrival on campus, and
that he "is a tremendous addition to our community." A round of applause followed.
Dean of College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
President Bollinger announced that Shirley Neuman, newly appointed dean of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts (LS&A), was present. He noted that she is a
very distinguished scholar who had come to the University from the University of British
Columbia and said that the University was extremely pleased to have her on its faculty. A
round of applause followed.
Revitalization of Central Campus Facilities
President Bollinger called on Executive Vice President Kasdin, who observed that
the Central Campus Plan is one of the most important initiatives to have been developed
during his tenure. He recalled commenting at the last meeting that in the coming years it
will be important to invest far more in the existing physical plant than in new buildings, so
that the University can remain strong for future generations.
Executive Vice President Kasdin presented several slides illustrating features of
the five buildings on which the revitalization effort is focused: the LS&A Building,
Haven Hall-Mason Hall, West Hall, and the Frieze Building, which are a part of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and the Perry Building, which will be used
by the Institute for Social Research. He emphasized that no action is being requested
on any of these renovation plans at this time; individual building renovation plans will
be brought to the Board over time for consideration.
LS&A Building. He noted that the LS&A Building, built in 1948, was designed
to house central administration offices, and that it needs major infrastructure renovation
and updating and enhancing of existing classroom space. He reported that 75 percent of
the funding for the $22 million project will be provided by the state. He recalled that the
principle underlying the most recent central campus planning initiative is the need to


28




September Meeting, 1999


reintroduce the academic mission of the institution in facilities planning. To this end, plans
also call for converting currently underutilized public areas into new programmatic space.
Perry Building. Executive Vice President Kasdin said that only minimal upgrades
had been done to the Perry Building since it was built in 1902. It requires a total
overhaul for safety, handicap access, code compliance, and better use of space. The
building will be used by the Institute for Social Research (ISR), and some of the
renovation costs will be recharged back to the institute.
West Hall. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that West Hall, built in 1904,
is designated as a significant structure in the National Register of Historic Places. It is
also a cornerstone of the Diag and is crucially important to the visual image of that area
of campus. Although the portion of the building that houses the School of Information
has been renovated, the infrastructure and the remainder of the building will be updated.
The renovated building will provide space for the Department of Anthropology, which
is currently housed in several separate locations.
Mason Hall and Haven Hall. These buildings, built in 1952, were originally
intended for classrooms (Mason Hall) and faculty offices (Haven Hall). The groundfloor connecting space between the two buildings, which is known as the "Fishbowl,"
has become a crucial public space for the University.  The preservation and
enhancement of this space will be an important aspect of plans for these buildings.
Mason and Haven Halls have critical infrastructure needs, including electrical and
fiber optic cable wiring. To enhance the functionality and increase the amount of office
space in Haven Hall, an addition will be built that will move its front wall out 23 feet,
creating a continuous front line with Mason Hall. Space above the Fishbowl will be
used for faculty offices in a number of LS&A departments and programs, which will
enhance interdisciplinary contact. The addition will also make it possible to walk
between the buildings without going down to the ground floors of each building. The
expanded Fishbowl area on the first floor of Haven Hall will provide new programmatic
space for students.
Frieze Building.  Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the Frieze
Building, originally a high school, has numerous infrastructure problems. The decision
has been made to delay addressing plans for this building until after the work has been
completed on the other LS&A buildings, which will be in four to five years. This will
allow time to develop a more complete understanding of what is needed in the Frieze
Building so as to make the best possible use of the available funds.
Executive Vice President Kasdin summarized that the LS&A building revitalization
project will be done over a five-year period. The total cost will be about $86 million,
with about $60 million provided by the state, through its Capital Outlay Program.
He then introduced Shirley Neuman, dean of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.
Dean Neuman observed that seven academic goals will be achieved in the College
of LS&A by the building renovations and the expansion of Haven Hall.
Every tenured and tenure track faculty member will have a private office and
every graduate student instructor will have shared office space in good condition. This


29




September Meeting, 1999


is important from a student perspective and from the perspective of recruiting and
retaining faculty, because when they have substandard office space, faculty and
graduate students tend to work at home and they become less accessible to
undergraduate students and less likely to contribute to a sense of academic community.
Academic units that are currently scattered across the campus, such as the
Department of Anthropology, will be consolidated. This department, which is rated the
best in the country, has four sub-disciplines that are currently housed in four separate
locations, which, as a consequence of their geographical dispersion, do not function
together as a department.
Units that by virtue of intellectual interests and joint faculty appointments should
have a high level of interaction will be able to be placed contiguously to each other.
Expanded and improved space will be made available for units that have grown
over the years, such as the Program in American Culture.
Dean Neuman noted that when departments share physical space, colleagues see
one another and develop a shared sense of intellectual and programmatic enterprise.
Departments that are dispersed across campus, on the other hand, tend to go in different
directions and can become divisive.
In particular, she noted that the Departments of History and Anthropology, the
Center of African and African American Studies (CAAS), and the Program in American
Culture will all benefit from the planned renovations. In addition, LS&A administrative
departments will all be brought together in the LS&A building, providing better
coordination, supervision, and cost savings.
The renovations will provide improved facilities for student learning, including
seminar rooms, conference rooms, and classrooms.
The renovations will help to address the need for the college to determine how
information technology and the Internet will be used across all levels of the curriculum.
Finally, the renovations will permit much more active learning, so that students
will learn not only how to solve problems defined by others, but how to identify what
the important problems are. This requires a different kind of learning space from the
traditional large lecture hall, including common study space, student conferencing
space, and computer facilities that allow students to study together and work together in
teams, which is not currently possible in the social sciences departments. Such student
learning space is planned for the common area adjacent to the Fishbowl.
In summary, Dean Neuman pointed out that the renovations will result in facilities
that are modern, efficient, technologically up-to-date, and appropriate for a leading
public research university.
"Michigan Greats"
Vice President Ulaby gave a presentation on the careers of David and Peter Tumley,
twin brothers and world-renowned photojoumalists, who are alumni of the Residential
College.


30




September Meeting, 1999


Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Bram Elias, president of Michigan Student
Assembly, about MSA/administration relationships for the coming year.
Following his comments, Regent McGowan encouraged Mr. Elias to take
advantage of the invitation that has been proffered to him and other MSA presidents in
the past to interact with the Regents during the regular Board session, rather than during
Public Comments. Regent Newman inquired about the possibility of students meeting
with Regents prior to the meetings. President Bollinger commented that no decision
had been made with respect to this suggestion because MSA already has an open
invitation to appear on the regular Regents agenda to express the views of students.
Regent McGowan emphasized that the MSA president is also free to include colleagues
in addressing the Board.
Mr. Elias said he was aware of this and that MSA planned to address the Board
every month about student issues. Regent Maynard complimented Mr. Elias about his
comments at the new student convocation.
Robert Alarie addressed the Board about obtaining an accredited engineering degree.
Motion to Meet in Non-formal Session
Following Public Comments, Regent Brandon made the following motion:
I move that we adjourn this formal session of the Regents and begin a
non-formal session, the purpose of which is to consider a personnel evaluation.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting continued in a non-formal session from 4:05 until 5:30 p.m.
September 17, 1999
The Regents convened at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent White was absent. Interim Chancellor Schmoll was also absent; Provost
McLaughlin attended in her place.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called for consideration of the
meeting agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes
of the July 15, 1999, meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
Reports of Investment and Plant Extension. He noted that the annual investment report
for FY 1999 would be presented at the October meeting.


31




September Meeting, 1999


Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, July 1-August 31, 1999.
University of Michigan Health System.   Executive Vice President Omenn
commented about a retreat held earlier that week by the Hospital Executive Board about
the external environment and the performance of the Health System. He observed that
UMHS is on a path of sustained quality improvements as well as progressive reduction
in cost structure. He noted that other institutions have been visiting the UMHS to learn
how it has been able to achieve financial stability. President Bollinger remarked that
the retreat had provided outstanding examples of commitment by people from many
areas of the Medical Center, all of whom are important to the success of the Health
System.
Executive Vice President Omenn observed that the University in general and the
Health System in particular has enjoyed a long relationship with the Warner
Lambert/Parke Davis Company and that this close relationship would soon be enhanced
by the company's funding of a new program in bioinformatics that will be presented
later in the meeting.
Executive Vice President Omenn announced that the governor would be
presenting a "Workplace Silver Award" to MFit Health Promotion Division, which is
the Health System's employee wellness program.
Student Affairs. Interim Vice President Harper reported that the "move-in" had been
successful and students are now settled into residence halls.
Dearborn Campus. Interim Chancellor Klein reported that the UM-Dearborn had
been ranked as one of the best regional public universities in the Midwest by U.S. News
and World Report. He noted that a number of events have been scheduled throughout
the fall and winter terms to mark the campus's 40th anniversary. Construction of the
new CASL building is proceeding ahead of schedule, and the Field House Fitness
Center is about 85 percent completed. Finally, he reported that the search for a new
chancellor is well underway.
Flint Campus. Provost McLaughlin reported that Chancellor Juan Mestas would
be arriving on campus to begin his tenure as chancellor on Monday, September 20.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin reported that voluntary support for
FY 1999 totaled $176,993,000. This is a decrease of $2.5 million from the previous
year, although if gifts-in-kind were eliminated, it would have been a better year than the
year before. She observed that the gifts reflect a continuing momentum and energy
from the capital campaign, especially among the gifts from individuals. In FY 1999
there was an increase of almost 7,000 donors from the previous year, resulting in a total
of over 100,000 individual donor gifts for the first time. This reflects the successful
collaboration of the schools and colleges with the central development office in
working together on the annual funds, as shown by the fact that annual fund receipts
were up 12 percent, and alumni donors increased by 7 percent.
Of the total gifts, she reported that 62 percent came from individuals. This is
important because individuals are more likely than corporations and foundations to


32




September Meeting, 1999


make gifts to high priority or flexible unrestricted purposes. The greatest potential for
growth in the development program will come from alumni and friends.
Vice President Feagin reported that in the coming year, the president, provost, and
deans will hold discussions about how University priorities and school and college
priorities fit together. These academic priorities will drive the fundraising agenda for
the Office of Development. She noted that the office is working with the schools and
colleges on staffing their development efforts, and that this year, the development office
also plans to focus on rejuvenating volunteer activities.
Vice President Feagin said that a survey had been conducted of donors who had
given at least $25,000 to determine what is important to them, and that she would be
pleased to present the results at a future meeting. President Bollinger observed that
development traditionally has been one of the most decentralized areas of the
University. However, current goals are to develop a set of university-wide development
objectives and to provide the highest quality development staff.      He noted that
University units that previously had functioned autonomously had welcomed the
involvement of the central development office.
Executive Vice President Omenn commented that it is important not to pigeonhole
individual donors as having limited interests. He noted that many individuals have
multiple interests and many programs are interdisciplinary, so it is important for units to
work together.
ADAC Plastics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. $ 15,000
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment in the Law School........................ 18,000
ALCOA Corporate Center, New Kensington, Pennsylvania
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  11,647
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 163,000
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 9,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 7,333
American Gastroenterological Association, Thorofare, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology, and the Colleges of
Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 118,967
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 22,119
Arthur Andersen LLP Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 50,259
Anonymous Donor
200 shares of Merck & Company and 200 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  31,038
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 7,833
Ashland, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
AstraZeneca, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,300
Autism Society of America, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000


33




September Meeting, 1999


Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 140,964
Beverly Franzblau Baker, Bloomfield Hills
for the Mardigian Library at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................... 5,000
Baker Petrolite, Sugar Land, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering...................................................... 25,000
Bank One Corporation, Detroit
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for employee matching gifts........... 8,584
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Nephrology Fellows Fund in the Medical School............................. 8,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship.............................. 49,000
Red Berenson Hockey School, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 6,000
Margaret G. Bertsch, Grand Rapids
1,900 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Margaret Bertsch Research Fund in the Medical School...................... 197,528
Esther Bihlmeyer Estate
for the Bur Development Research and Education Fund, Medical School............. 84,983
Bloomfield Hills School District, Bloomfield Hills
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering and for the
Minority Orientation and Education Assistance Fund in the Medical School............. 15,000
Frederick W. Bolander, Chicago, Illinois
275 shares of Exodus Communications, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 28,127
Boothman, Hebert, Eller, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Thomas C. Boyd, Oxford, Ohio
for the Shirley Rodman Williams and Peggy Rodman Boyd Fellowship in the
Institute for Research on Women and Gender.....................................  10,000
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration............................... 50,000
Charla Breton Associates, Royal Oak
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 10,000
Martha Brown Briscoe Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  5,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School..............................  101,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,401
Robert W. Browne, Ada
7,344 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry........................ 323,595
Cecilia P. Bunney Estate
for the Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 200,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Durham, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 20,000
Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.................................... 32,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies....................................................................  7,750
Carrier Corporation, Syracuse, New York
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.................................... 16,000
Harry E. Chesebrough Trust
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................  207,908
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, San Ramon, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College  of Engineering....................................................... 25,000


34




September Meeting, 1999


Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
700 shares of CNA Surety Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Music...................... 10,150
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for the Citibank Academic Excellence Award Fund, School of Business Administration.... 14,000
Robert L. Cohn Estate
309 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock and a cash gift
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 26,562
Comerica Bank - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............................................. 12,500
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 6,464
Compaq Computer Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund, College of Engineering.... 25,000
Phelps M. Connell, Ann Arbor
85 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Connell Endowment, School of Natural Resources and Environment............. 5,172
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering and for geological sciences support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  44,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  80,000
Covance, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 38,712
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 6,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering................................................... 350,000
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering,
for the School of Engineering and the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for other support at the University of Michigan.... 111,500
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
William Davidson, Auburn Hills
4,800 shares of Guardian Industries Corporation common stock
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration...................... 2,001,600
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  5,000
Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, New York, New York
for the  University  Library..................................................... 25,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Frankfort
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,350
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., Detroit
for research in the Medical School and for support, University Hospitals................ 10,000
Dow AgroSciences, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Public Health......................................  125,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  12,530
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for natural sciences support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 24,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 50,600
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and
Environment and in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 50,000
Elizabeth L. Eisenstein, Washington, DC
25,205 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Palmer Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 1,161,159


35




September Meeting, 1999


Emerson Charitable Trust
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering.................................................... 16,000
Empi, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for the research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................. 6,000
E. P. Systems Group, Inc., Louisville, Kentucky
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........ 9,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 10,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................... 74,339
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for the Ernst & Young Health Care Consulting Scholars Fund, School of Public Health.... 40,000
Ernest C. Fackler III, Chicago, Illinois
for the University  Library...................................................... 5,000
George L. Farr, Greenwich, Connecticut
300 shares of Pacific Sunwear common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 11,494
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 5,907
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration and for other support at the
University  of M ichigan....................................................... 22,250
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the E. Malcolm Field
Research Fellowship in the Medical School....................................... 52,000
Chuck Fisher, East Lansing
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 9,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the School of M usic.............................................. 26,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the School of Business
Administration, for research in the College of Engineering and the Transportation
Research Institute, for statistics support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and for support in the School of Engineering at the University of
M ichigan-D earborn........................................................  375,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, for the Harmonize for
Hope Fund in the Medical School, for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
and  for employee matching  gifts..............................................  159,090
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 50,000
Anne V. Fuller Trust
for the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 28,000
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies and for employee matching gifts........................................  197,669
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 15,000
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for the Southeast Michigan Alumni Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration and for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 32,600
General Motors Corporation R & D Center, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 225,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Michigan Space
Grant Consortium Fund in the College of Engineering.............................. 15,600
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Jessye Norman Graduate Fellowship in Voice in the School of Music............ 61,921
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Donald C. Graham Endowment in the College of Engineering................. 350,000
Grand Aerie Fraternal Order of Eagles, Three Rivers
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 23,635


36




September Meeting, 1999


Frances Greer, Ann Arbor
for the Frances Greer Scholarship in Voice and other support in the School of Music,
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the University Musical Society, in memory of Frederick C. Matthaei, Sr.......... 12,300
GTE Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 5,600
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering...................................................... 25,000
Michael R. Hallman, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
Kenneth A. Harris, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 6,000
Keith S. Henley, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................... 9,885
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Nursing........................................... 100,000
Robert M. Hoffer, Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration............. 25,000
Homeland Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Chauncey Stillman Professorship for Ethics and Morality in the Law School...... 250,000
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  30,000
Karen L. Horny, Springfield, Missouri
85 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Karen Horny Scholarship in the School of Information......................... 5,172
Dexter Horton Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 7,500
Hospital & Health Services Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Integrated Therapeutics, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 7,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 5,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships, College of Engineering...... 21,000
Robert Irish Estate
2,353 shares of DaimlerChrysler Corporation common stock
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 203,387
Marjorie M. Jackson, North Chittenden, Vermont
129 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................  10,002
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sol Drachler Professorship in Jewish Communal Service in the School of
Social W ork..............................................................  400,000
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Jobbers Warehouse Service, Inc., Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 8,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for bioengineering research in the College of Engineering........................... 75,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and the
Institute for Social Research and for employee matching gifts....................... 937,539
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social W ork...................................... 254,290
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  77,035
Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., Detroit
for the Albert Kahn Associates Fellowship in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning....................................... 9,114
Kal Kan Kmart, Vernon, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund, University Hospitals..... 6,721


37




September Meeting, 1999


W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Education, Information, and Social Work and for
employee matching gifts..................................................... 901,122
Kellogg's Corporate Citizenship Fund, Battle Creek
for employee matching gifts................................................... 13,750
Kirkland and Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for research in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for employee matching gifts...................... 10,150
KMC Telecom II., Inc., Bedminster, New Jersey
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 5,400
K.M.D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 5,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 35,000
Gilbert Leppelmeier, Gainesville, Georgia
735 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 50,072
Norman Levy Associates, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 5,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 8,750
Gillson Logenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 167,000
LTV Steel Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Public Policy.........................................  5,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies in the
School of Business Administration and for the Center for Community Service and
L earning...............................................................  1,010,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research................................... 303,000
Lorne S. MacDonald Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 15,000
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 11,300
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 12,500
Victor Markowicz, New York, New York
for the Center for Russian and East European Studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  28,201
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  10,000
MascoTech, Inc., Fraser
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute and
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,000
MBNA America Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware
for the Alumni Association  Scholarship.......................................... 10,000
McKinsey & Company, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.................................... 32,000
Stephen Meadow, Nantucket, Massachusetts
for the Stephen and Mary Meadow Faculty Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  12,500
Meiji Seika Kaisha, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research  in  the School of Dentistry............................................ 5,000
Meritor Fund, Troy
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  5,000
Metalforming Technologies, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
Metropolitan Life Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,225


38




September Meeting, 1999


David J. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the David J. and Carole N. Metzger Endowed Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning....................................... 5,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering
and for employee matching gifts...............................................  50,541
Mid-America Arts Alliance, Kansas City, Missouri
for the University Musical Society............................................... 6,500
Adele M. Milanowski Estate
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 9,100
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
2,300 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Dorothy and Herman L. Miller Endowment in the Medical School.............. 99,547
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering, for the
Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of Business
Administration, and the College of Engineering, and for automotive transportation
research in the Transportation Research Institute.................................. 28,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 16th Biennial Conference on Chemical Education in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., Nagasaki, Japan
for the Laser Mass Spectrometry of Resins Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................  10,000
Mobil Administrative Services Company, Dallas, Texas
for the Vennema Distinguished Professor Fund, College of Engineering................ 15,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 8,782
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  12,011
Horace L. Mourer Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 165,830
Alfred C. Mueller, Ashland, Virginia
1,410 shares of E.I. du Pont de Nemours common stock
for the Alfred C. and Hannah Mueller Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering..................................... 95,968
Richard Mukensturm, Adrian
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Eileen V. Mukensturm................ 5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 115,344
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 74,993
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 25,000
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, Colorado
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Ft. Wayne, Indiana
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.................................... 16,000
Wencel A. Neumann, Jr., Clemson, South Carolina
3,000 shares of Hubbell, Inc., common stock
for the Ruth Judson Neumann Scholarship in the School of Nursing................. 128,344
Henry L. Newnan, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
50,000 shares of Automatic Data Processing and
9,000 shares of Campbell Soup common stock
for the Henry L. Newnan, Jr., Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Henry L. Newnan Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the   A rts.............................................................  2,492,438
Newport News Shipbuilding, Newport News, Virginia
for Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarships in the College of Engineering..... 5,000


39




September Meeting, 1999


NHK International Corporation, Southfield
for support in the Medical School...............................................  5,000
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.............. 15,000
Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 5,450
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School...............................................  5,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and for employee matching gifts.... 12,445
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for research and other support in the Medical School.............................. 18,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 8,977
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................................... 30,300
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Maryland
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for support in the Medical School...............................................  5,000
Herbert & Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
James H. Poppy, Hailey, Idaho
2,000 shares of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School.................... 86,500
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for W UOM /W VGR.........................................................  10,500
Donald W. Pride Trust
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  6,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 50,000
Thelma B. Pryor Trust
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  13,000
Quantum, Milpitas, California
for the Global Business Partnership Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 15,000
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for support in the School of Social W ork.......................................... 5,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 35,000
Rotary Club of Frankfort, Frankfort
for the Heal the Children Fund in the Medical School................................ 5,000
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute...... 43,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research, and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the   A rts...............................................................  132,615
Samsung Motors, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,485
Daniel M. Sandberg, Farmington Hills
175 shares of Walt Disney Company common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,245
Glenn E. Schembechler, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund, Medical School................ 47,000
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School........... 75,000
Schlumberger Dowell, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College  of Engineering....................................................... 25,000
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 8,000
Morton S. Sellner, Coral Springs, Florida
15,984 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Morton and Henrietta Sellner Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the


40




September Meeting, 1999


ultimate benefit of the Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellner Endowed Professorship
in the Medical School.....................................................  1,003,907
Alan C. Shackelford, Madison, Wisconsin
for English Language and Literature support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the  Arts................................................................ 5,000
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute............... 7,500
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 42,500
Bruce Smith Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 27,840
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for research in the School of Business Administration.............................. 119,856
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Medical School................................ 9,600
I. Alan Smokler, Ann Arbor
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship, Medical School............... 5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 277,050
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the MTSP Scholarship Assistance Fund in the Medical School..................... 10,000
Sprint Foundation, Westwood, Kansas
for the Associates Program, the Global Learning Study Fund, and other support in the
School of Business Administration.............................................  40,000
Square D Foundation, Palatine, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,200
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 50,000
William E. Steen, San Francisco, California
85 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the Steen Acquisitions Fund in the Museum of Art............................... 5,419
Lenore F. Sternlight, Brooklyn, New York
6,523 shares of Salomon Brothers Investor Fund, Inc., mutual fund
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 160,857
Walter H. Stewart, Jr., Rockville, Maryland
for the Walter H. Stewart Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Walter H. Stewart Fund in the School of Dentistry.................................  10,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust
for the Esther C. Stone Graduate Student Scholarship, the Lucinda Hinsdale Stone
Award Fund, and other support at the University of Michigan-Flint.................... 20,085
Ruth L. Striffler, Portland, Oregon
for the Dave Striffler Fund in Dental Public Health in the School of Public Health......... 5,000
Superior Consultant Holdings Corporation, Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society and for WUOM/WVGR.......................... 14,520
Christopher T. Tamer, Howell
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
TAP Holdings, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 7,000
Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust
for program  support in the School of Social Work.................................. 20,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
Texaco Services, Inc., Bellaire, Texas
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................ 30,000
Textron Automotive Trim Division, Troy
for the building fund in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 25,000
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,995
Times Mirror Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,550


41




September Meeting, 1999


John L. Tishman, New York, New York
for the John L. Tishman Fellowship in the College of Engineering................... 100,000
Toyoda Gosei Company, Ltd., Nishikasugai-gun, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 12,400
Dana L. Trier, New York, New York
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,000
Trilogy Software, Inc., Austin, Texas
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund, College of Engineering..... 25,000
Harriett Turner, Frankenmuth
for the Frank and Harriett Turner Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Business Administration and the Kellogg Eye Center.......... 139,600
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.............. 15,000
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 20,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics for the Clements
Library, and for employee matching gifts........................................ 58,400
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 29,700
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
Visteon, Dearborn
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Vlasic Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Class of 1949 Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................... 10,000
Volvo of America Corporation, Rockleigh, New Jersey
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 14,985
Walbridge Aldinger Company, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for research in the College of
Engineering  and the M edical School...........................................  101,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,795
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Fund in the
School of Business Administration............................................  108,314
MaliVai Washington, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 25,000
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
350 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  28,383
Anthony J. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 20,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,965
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research  in the College of Engineering....................................... 377,820
Robert J. White, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts.... 111,000
Donald M. Wilkinson, Jr., Syosset, New York
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Law  Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 50,000
Anthony M. Yorio, River Vale, New Jersey
for research  in the College of Pharmacy......................................... 100,000


42




September Meeting, 1999


Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies in the
School of Business Administration........................................... 1,000,000
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for the Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment in the Law School..................... 25,000
George H. Amber Trust
for the George H. and Shirley C. Amber Endowment, School of Business Administration.... 100,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts................................................... 18,255
Anonymous Donor
3,000 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock
for the Library Acquisition Endowment, University of Michigan-Flint................ 169,688
Anonymous Donor
for support of the Law School and for the President's Fund......................... 200,000
David C. Arch, Oak Brook, Illinois
for the Clyde Thompson Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 5,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for employee matching gifts................................................... 10,200
A. P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
100 shares of Tricon Global Restaurants common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 5,397
Bell Atlantic Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law   School.................................................  50,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning......................................  18,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health....... 10,000
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health........ 5,000
BlueCross/Blue Shield Association, Chicago, Illinois
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health....... 10,000
Robert P. Boardman, Littleton, Colorado
2,400 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Class of 1947
Engineering Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................... 101,025
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,158
Budres Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Budres Foundation Scholarship in the School of Music......................... 7,000
Rosalie K. Butzel, Seattle, Washington
2,086 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund and for the Museum of Art................. 207,328
Jack Carso, Burton
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Judith Carso......................... 8,550
Kathleen G. Charla, Bloomfield Hills
225 shares of CBS Corporation common stock
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  10,181
William M. Chase, Jr., Geneva, Switzerland
for the William Chase Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
University  of M ichigan....................................................... 10,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 25,000
Cisco Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 13,500
Citizens Bank, Flint
for the Flint Bankers Scholarship and other support at the University of Michigan-Flint..... 9,475
Clannad Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 5,000
Coca-Cola Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Coca-Cola Undergraduate Research Opportunities Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................ 10,000


43




September Meeting, 1999


Robert L. Cohn Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 9,160
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 5,274
Phelps M. Connell, Ann Arbor
85 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Connell Endowment in the School of Natural Resources and Environment......... 5,172
Isabel H. Cosgrove Estate
for the Isabel H. and Norman Cosgrove Memorial Scholarship in the School of Nursing...... 12,907
Creation's Own, Palm Bay, Florida
for research in the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 7,000
Daimler Chrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for employee matching gifts................................................... 85,809
William Davidson, Auburn Hills
9,600 shares of Guardian Industries Corporation common stock
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration...................... 4,003,200
Paquita Y. Davis-Friday, Atlanta, Georgia
for the John R. and Mini L. Busy Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 10,000
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the University Hospitals.................................................... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment, School of Business Administration...... 10,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music....... 103,236
EDS, Plano, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Harriet E. Fay, Howell
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................  38,000
Stephen M. Fisher, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin
50 shares of Applied Materials, Inc., and 50 shares of Fannie Mae common stock
for the Foley &  Lardner Fund in the Law  School...................................  7,186
Flow Ezy Filters, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............. 5,000
FMC Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,200
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  10,000
Frances I. Furlong Trust
for the Harold A. Furlong Research Endowment in the Medical School.................. 9,237
Ralph W. Garlick, Grand Rapids
500 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Ralph and Susan Garlick Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 21,969
GC America, Inc., Alsip, Illinois
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  5,000
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 70,000
Gillette Company, Boston, Massachusetts
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,250
Gilmour Fund, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  10,000
GKN Automotive Components, Inc., Auburn Hills
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............. 5,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 20,000
Great Lakes Performing Artist Association, Ann Arbor
for the  University  Hospitals...................................................  20,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 20,000
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, Troy
for W UOM /W VGR..........................................................  5,772
Herbst Foundation, Inc., San Francisco, California
for support of the Law   School................................................  250,000
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Community Service Learning Gift Fund.................................... 15,000


44




September Meeting, 1999


James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Child Advocacy Law Clinic in the Law School............................. 200,000
Jean M. Holland, Birmingham
for the Frederick R. Holland, M.D., Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School........ 25,000
Hughes Spectrolab, Sylmar, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 15,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry................ 193,360
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships, College of Engineering..... 40,620
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships, College of Engineering..... 53,630
Robert Irish Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 8,873
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for program support in the School of Social Work................................. 28,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 8,280
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Kellogg Public Policy Fellowship, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 130,000
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,000
Barbara M. Kitzner, Grosse Ile
for the Environmental Study Area at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 5,000
KLS Martin, L.P., Jacksonville, Florida
for the Joseph Helman Research Fund in the School of Dentistry....................... 8,333
Knapp Motors, Inc., Blissfield
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 9,000
Kraft General Foods, Inc., Glenview, Illinois
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................ 10,000
Iva P. Kropschot Estate
for the Bruce E. Kropschot Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........ 150,000
Richard P. Kughn, Farmington Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 22,755
Walter Lorenz Surgical Instruments, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida
for the Joseph Helman Research Fund in the School of Dentistry...................... 13,333
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio
for the Macromolecular Research Center and other support in the College of
Engineering and for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,500
Lucent Technologies Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,280
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Mary R. Maddox Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 6,020
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  50,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 46,450
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Undergraduate Scholarships in the College of Engineering.................. 15,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint and for employee matching gifts.......... 50,405
Janet S. Mueller, St. Peter, Minnesota
for the  Clem ents Library....................................................... 5,000
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 35,000
National City Bank, Cleveland, Ohio
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 10,000
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering.................. 6,500
Nike, Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's Basketball


45




September Meeting, 1999


Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for the Sports Reporting Fellowship
in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................. 105,000
Richard D. O'Connor, Birmingham
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 33,000
Omega Healthcare Investors, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 7,500
Owens-Illinois Charities Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 9,370
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 13,734
Raymond T. J. Perring, Bloomfield Hills
17,750 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock and
10,000 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the Raymond T. J. Perring Family Professorship, School of Business Administration..... 1,574,625
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Medical School...............................................  7,000
Pfizer Leibinger, Dallas, Texas
for the Joseph Helman Research Fund in the School of Dentistry..................... 10,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the 16th Biennial Conference on Chemical Education in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law........................ 5,450
James H. Poppy, Hailey, Idaho
1,300 shares of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School.................... 58,134
Richard E. Posey, Richmond, Virginia
130 shares of Applied Materials, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 9,644
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 48,030
Bonnie R. Proctor, Los Altos, California
69 shares of Bank America Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,151
Martin C. Recchuite, Calabasas, California
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Joseph and Rose Rontal Foundation, Detroit
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  20,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Men's Basketball Scholarship and other support in the Department
of  A thletics..............................................................  200,000
John A. Russell, Hershey, Pennsylvania
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health........ 5,000
Margery H. Ruth Trust
for the J. Griswold and Margery H. Ruth Endowment, the Ruth Research Fellow
Fund, and the Ruth Summer Research Award Fund in the Medical School............. 100,000
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund, Medical School................ 50,000
Mabel E. Sherk Estate
for the Mabel E. Sherk Research Fund in the Medical School....................... 200,000
Goff Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
13,480 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................  602,527
J. M. Smucker Company, Orrville, Ohio
for the J. M. Smucker Company Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
A. Alfred Taubman Trust
for the Alfred  Taubman  Scholarship............................................  44,579
John M. Tomich, Lynnfield, Massachusetts
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 45,145


46




September Meeting, 1999


Trenton Firefighters Local 2701, Trenton
for the Trauma Bur Center Firefighter's Fund and the Bum Development Research
and Education Fund in the Medical School....................................... 31,241
University of Michigan Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 5,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 6,863
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 99,995
Warner Books, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 12,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................... 16,159
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorships and Fellowships in the Medical
School, and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...................... 740,000
Wellmark, Des Moine, Iowa
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health....... 5,000
Brenda S. Wickett Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 6,500
David P. Wood, Birmingham
100 shares of Nestle common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  9,650
Yaffe & Company, Southfield
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop Fund in the School of Art and Design...... 10,000
Ellen Shaw Agress, North Tarrytown, New York
for the Vivian R. Shaw Lecture Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 6,000
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for the Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment in the Law School..................... 25,000
Jay and Maryanne Alix Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 14,200
ALS of Michigan, Inc., Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 76,273
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health........................... 75,300
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 9,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,250
ARCO Products Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 25,000
Scott J. Arnold, Atlanta, Georgia
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 38,748
Baker & McKenzie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Baker & McKenzie Law Student Assistance Fund in the Law School.............. 5,000
Dorothy Gondos Beers, Fairfax, Virginia
122 shares of Williams Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Victor Gondos, Jr., Archives Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and  Urban  Planning................................................ 5,475
Peter Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
for the London School of Economics Student Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
1,000 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Eve and Albert Berg Memorial Loan Fund and the Roger A. Berg, M.D.,
Endowment in  the M edical School.............................................. 25,625
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000


47




September Meeting, 1999


Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology...................................... 15,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry......................... 75,000
Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation, Inc., Winter Park, Florida
for the Community Outreach Women's Health Program in the University Hospitals...... 32,000
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 150,000
Jack Carso, Burton
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Judith Carso........................ 8,550
Richard L. Christiansen, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Semtech Corporation common stock
for the Orthodontic Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.................... 6,138
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 33,000
Joseph A. Clayton, Ann Arbor
for the Joseph A. Clayton Scholarship in the School of Dentistry...................... 5,000
Thomas C. Cochran, Jr., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,000
Robert L. Cohn Estate
1,067 shares of various corporate common stock
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 62,837
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship, School of Business Administration....... 11,400
Colgate-Palmolive Company, New York, New York
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  5,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Birmingham Alumnae Club Scholarship and for the University Musical Society..... 5,000
Community Foundations, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
for the  University  Hospitals...................................................  17,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women.............. 7,500
Coming Incorporated Foundation, Coming, New York
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Covance, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 21,850
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 15,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  19,250
Charles A. Derrow, Mount Pleasant
1,098 shares of various mutual funds
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 26,117
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 10,000
Angelo and Margaret DiPonio Foundation, Livonia
for the Angelo and Margaret DiPonio Endowment in the College of Engineering........ 100,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  12,846
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,820
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music...... 103,236
David K. Easlick, Grosse Pointe Farms
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  5,000
David A. Eklund, Ann Arbor
66 shares of SPX Corporation common stock
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund.........................................  5,833
Feldman Trust
for the Library Fund in the School of Dentistry..................................... 5,500
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Paul A. Nordgren Scholarship in Civil Engineering, College of Engineering...... 150,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 168,960


48




September Meeting, 1999


Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
Frances I. Furlong Trust
for the Harold A. Furlong Research Endowment in the Medical School................. 9,237
Michael R. Gallagher, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
300 shares of Mandalay Resort Group common stock
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,175
GC America, Inc., Alsip, Illinois
for support in  the  School of Dentistry...........................................  5,000
Michael R. Gelband, Short Hills, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
Paul W. Gikas, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Unisys Corporation and
225 shares of Cypress Amax Minerals Company common stock
for the John and Minnie Gikas Endowed Fellowship in the Medical School............. 15,579
William B. Ginsberg, London, United Kingdom
10,000 shares of NTL, Inc., common stock
for the Center for Community Service and Learning............................. 1,035,625
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 49,799
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts.................... 9,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute and
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 12,500
Grand Aerie Fraternal Order of Eagles, Three Rivers
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 7,617
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
Colleen M. Houser, Westerville, Ohio
for the Brian Worth Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 5,000
Charlotte Howard Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 20,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry..................... 193,360
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  14,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering
and  for employee matching  gifts..............................................  122,420
Robert Irish Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  8,873
Andrew C. Jacobs, Columbus, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 5,000
Janssen Pharmaceutical Research Foundation, Titusville, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  12,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 88,495
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
1,031 shares of Vanguard Total Stock Market Index mutual fund
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship, School of Business Administration..... 30,000
David B. Kaplan, Beverly Hills, California
for the David and Meredith Kaplan Scholarship, School of Business Administration....... 10,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Kellogg Public Policy Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies and for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research....... 206,712
Key Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support at the University  of M ichigan........................................  22,430
Kirkland and Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
for the Lindenauer Vascular Research and Education Award Fund in the Medical School.... 5,000
Richard P. Kughn, Farmington Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 25,000


49




September Meeting, 1999


Herbert H. Lee Endowment Trust
for the Herbert H. Lee Scholarship............................................. 22,755
Robert C. Leland, Jr., Harbor Springs
for the Leland Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 12,500
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 36,175
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee matching gifts................................................... 34,301
Litvak Foundation, Troy
for the Alan T. Ackerman Dean's Endowment in the Law School..................... 50,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 5,500
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Bernard E. Lyons, Sr., Trust
for support of the Law  School.................................................  10,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work........................................ 48,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 82,555
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 5,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 98,500
Margaret M. McIntosh Trust
for the Mildred McIntosh Dance Scholarship Endowment in the School of Music......... 10,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
100 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company and a cash gift
for the Faculty Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the
Carillon  Fund the School of M usic.............................................. 11,206
McKinsey & Company, Inc., New York, New York
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 25,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education and in the Institute for Social Research......... 695,000
Meritor Automotive, Inc., Troy
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
Michigan Dental Association, Lansing
for support in  the School of Dentistry...........................................  20,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 61,450
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
for W UOM /W VGR..........................................................  6,640
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,570
Kathi Morrow, Bloomfield Hills
1,850 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for the Marlin H. Pemberton Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................ 68,450
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in  the  School of M usic.............................................. 15,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the Bridges to the Future Project Fund and other support at the University of
M ichigan-Flint........................................................... 2,345,429
MSX International, Inc., Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 9,800
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 6,250
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Michigan Chapter, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 45,784
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry.......... 31,400
Oberkotter Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.............................. 250,000


50




September Meeting, 1999


Richard D. O'Connor, Birmingham
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 33,000
Diane H. Oldfather, Lincoln, Nebraska
for support of the Law School, in memory of Charles Oldfather....................... 10,000
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 20,000
Paddock Pools of Eastern Michigan, Inc., Farmington Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 12,000
David K. Parse, Chicago, Illinois
195 shares of Net2Phone, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 15,332
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 6,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the 16th Biennial Conference on Chemical Education in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 5,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 5,985
Joseph and Rose Rontal Foundation, Detroit
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  20,000
Irving Rose, Bingham Farms
for support in  the  School of M usic..............................................  10,000
Glenn A. Rossman, Fort Wayne, Indiana
200 shares of Mellon Bank Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the University
of Michigan Club of Fort W ayne Scholarship........................................ 7,031
Rouge Steel Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 20,000
John A. Russell, Hershey, Pennsylvania
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health........ 5,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Dentistry................. 28,140
Michael A. Sakkinen Estate
46,261 shares of T. Rowe Price mutual fund
for the Michael and Joan Sakkinen Accounting Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration............................................................  223,580
SAP America, Southfield
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute................ 7,500
John E. Schippel, Barrington, Illinois
318 shares of Allstate Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School.................................................  11,269
Schlumberger Foundation, New York, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering......... 6,000
Schostak Brothers & Company, Inc., Southfield
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 5,000
Peter A. Schroeder, East Lansing
for the Chris Schroeder Graduate Scholarship and other support in the School of Music..... 5,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Donald R. Shepherd Men's Ice Hockey Scholarship and other support in the
Department of Athletics and for support in the School of Music...................... 232,203
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art
Marcelle Smith Trust
for the Dr. Frank Smith Memorial Award Fund in the School of Dentistry................ 5,000
J. M. Smucker Company, Orrville, Ohio
for the J. M. Smucker Company Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Schools of Business
Administration, Information, and Law and in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund............. 20,000


51




September Meeting, 1999


Richard E. Spaid, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 6,000
Starry Night Fund, New York, New York
for support in the School of Art and Design....................................... 5,000
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund, Medical School................ 10,000
John F. Stone Trust
for the John F. Stone Research and Scholarship Fund, Medical School................ 25,000
TAP Holdings, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Glaxo Pharmacy Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy...................... 21,500
A. Alfred Taubman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship............................................ 44,579
Telcordia Technologies, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Program in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  25,000
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
Trenton Firefighter's Local 2701, Trenton
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund and the Burn Development Research
and Education Fund in the Medical School....................................... 31,241
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research and other support in the College of Engineering........................ 115,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 5,500
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship.................. 10,000
UPS Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts............. 15,025
Vlasic Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for support in the College of Pharmacy.......... 107,802
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  14,454
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 10,400
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support at the University  of M ichigan.........................................  6,885
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
674 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., and
400 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr. and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  72,479
0. C. Welch Ford Lincoln Mercury, Beaufort, South Carolina
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 18,000
Joseph D. Whiteman, Stowe, Vermont
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Brenda S. Wickett Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 6,500
Howard L. Wikel, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund, Medical School................ 15,000
Ted and Rita Williams Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  50,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................ 25,000
Jane Brown Winkless Trust
for research  in the M edical School............................................ 119,422
Wyeth Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Community Outreach Women's Health Program in the University Hospitals....... 12,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Edwin W. Deer, Birmingham
ten signed and framed Emil Weddige prints for the Michigan League


52




September Meeting, 1999


Dell Computer, Round Rock, Texas
computer equipment for ITD
Bea Fletcher, Chelsea
a power wheelchair for the University Hospitals
Robert B. Glenn, Marquette
a collection of 439 pieces of American sheet music for the Clements Library
IBM, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
computer equipment for ITD
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
software for the School of Information
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
21 digital white boards for the University of Michigan
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
manuscript papers of William Williams family for the Clements Library
Matthew H. Nitecki, Chesterton, Indiana
an extensive collection of books and journals in paleontology and related fields for the Museum of
Paleontology
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
office and laboratory furniture and equipment, measurement instruments, and procera scanning
workstations for the School of Dentistry Center for Excellence
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
40 binders of items relating to Japanese sculpture and metalwork and Indian and Sri Lankan
material for the history of art department
George H. Tweney, Seattle, Washington
217 printed items by or about A. Edward Newton for the Clements Library
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
two books and a collection of 19th century trade cards for the Clements Library
Altair Engineering, Inc., Troy
608 hours of engineering time and workstation, 200 hours of Cray CPU time, and 2 software
licenses for the Solar Car Team
Asker E. Asmi, Dearborn Heights
books for University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
computer equipment for the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering
Laird U. Park, Jr., Villinova
a collection of nineteenth and twentieth century books for the Clements Library
Nathaniel H. Rowe, Ann Arbor
a Technicon illuminated slide cabinet and a collection of projection slides for the School of
Dentistry
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel actions and
personnel reports. She called attention to the appointments of former interim president
Homer A. Neal as the Samuel A. Goudsmit Professor of Physics; Sherril A. Smith as
Kathryn M. Anderson-Levitt, Dearborn         Ellen G. Rabinowitz, Ann Arbor
Heights                            Vera Rasich, Ann Arbor
James M. Babcock, Harsens Island        Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York
Mark J. Chambers, Dayton, Ohio          Carl M. Sneed, Columbia, Missouri
Brian L. Dunnigan, Tecumseh             Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
Ann Smith Fowler, Ann Arbor             William B. Treml, Ann Arbor
General Electric, Schenectady, New York  Helen R. Weingarten, Ann Arbor
Robert W. Gesell, Ann Arbor             John R. Wheat, Berkeley, California
Merrill C. Miller, West Bloomfield      John D. Wheeler, East Tawas
Charles E. Olson, Jr., Ann Arbor        William H. Finch, Ann Arbor
James I. Porter, Ann Arbor              Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
Doug Price, Ann Arbor                   Amy Klezek, Bloomfield Hills
Mike Price, Ypsilanti                   Rosalyn Saltz, Detroit
Susan J. Rabick, Sparta                 Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor


53




September Meeting, 1999


interim dean of the School of Art and Design; and John L. King as professor of
information and dean of the School of Information, effective January 1, 2000.
President Bollinger pointed out that the University has hired a number of people
from outside the institution into leadership roles, which provides a significant benefit
for the institution.
Interim Chancellor Klein submitted a number of personnel actions, including the
reappointments of the deans of the School of Education and College of Engineering and
Computer Science. Provost McLaughlin submitted personnel actions for the Flint
campus.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Betts, Norman J., D.D.S., M.S., Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Blair, Sara B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Boyd, lain D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering
Fisher, Gary J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dermatology, Medical School, September 17, 1999
Gaines, Kevin K., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hahn, Jinyong, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Halperin, David M., Ph.D., Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Kantowitz, Barry H., Ph.D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2000
King, John L., Ph.D., Professor of Information, with tenure, and Dean, School of Information, five year
term, January 1, 2000
Klionsky, Daniel J., Ph.D., Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Reid, Pamela T., Ph.D., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Research
Scientist, Institute for Research on Women and Gender
Schulenberg, John E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Von Eschen, Penny M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of Afroamerican
and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Jagadish, Hosagrahar, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering
Michalowski, Radoslaw L., Ph.D., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering
Scobey, David M., Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning
Smith, Bradley R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
Wang, Cun-Yu, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Clark, Noreen M., Dean, School of Public Health, five year term, July 1, 2000
Dunlop, Charles E., Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, one year
term, July 1, 1999
Feigal, Robert J., Interim Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Dentistry, one year term,
October 1, 1999


54




September Meeting, 1999


Gillespie, Carolyn M., Chair, Department of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1,
1999- December 31, 2000
Marsh, William M., Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, two year term, July 1, 1999
Poster, John B., Dean, UM-Dearborn School of Education, five year term, July 1, 2000
Roehl, Richard W., Associate Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, one year term
Sengupta, Subrata, Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, five year term,
July 1, 2000
Silverman, Ronald E., Chair, Department of Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, six
month term, July 1, 1999
Svoboda, Frederic J., Chair, Department of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, three year term
Varde, Keshav S., Associate Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, three
year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Adams, Paul A., Acting Chair, Department of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, six
month term, July 1, 1999
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, five year term, October 1, 1999
Bonner, Michael D., Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Cascade, Philip N., Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School
Chamberlin, John R., from Interim Dean to Associate Dean, School of Public Policy, August 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Cooper, Frederick, Chair, Department of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
King, Cheryl A., Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Meyer, William J., Acting Chair, Department of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, six month term, January 1, 2000
Nas, Tevfik F., Chair, Department of Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, three year
term, July 1, 1999
Noll, Douglas C., Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School
O'Donnell, Paul E., Chair, Department of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
three year term, July 1, 1999
Pierre, Christophe, Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, three year term
Rubenstein, Bruce A., Chair, Department of History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, three year
term, July 1, 1999
Smith, Sherril A., Interim Dean, School of Art and Design, six month term, July 1, 1999
Somers, Margaret Ramsay, Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Studier, Eugene H., Chair, Department of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, six month
term, January 1, 2000
Toman, Jindrich, Chair, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, two year term, July 1, 1999
White, Chelsea C., III, Interim Chair, Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, August 16, 1999-June 30, 2000
Yoffee, Norman, Acting Chair, Department of Near Eastern Studies, four month term
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Canning, Kathleen M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Jenkins, Janice M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
intergovernmental personnel leave extended, August 24, 1999-August 31, 2000
Lieberthal, Kenneth, intergovernmental personnel leave extended, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000


55




September Meeting, 1999


Sonmez, Tayfun, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, January 1-December 31, 2000
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
C. Gardner Child Professorship in Surgery, Medical School, five year renewable term, October 1, 1999
Hugh Cabot Professorship in Surgery, Medical School, five year renewable term, October 1, 1999
Lyle C. Roll Professorship, Medical School, five year renewable term, October 1, 1999
Robert Hayden Collegiate Professorship in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1999
S. Jan Behrman Collegiate Professorship in Reproductive Medicine, Medical School, five year renewable
term, October 1, 1999
Naming of Existing Professorships
Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professorship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year
renewable term, September 1, 1999
Oskar Klein Collegiate Professorship in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year
renewable term, September 1, 1999
Samuel A. Goudsmit Collegiate Professorship in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five
year renewable term, September 1, 1999
Renaming Administrative Position
Assistant Provost for Academic Affairs, Office of the Provost, September 1, 1999 (previous title, Assistant
Vice President for Academic and Student Affairs)
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Curley, Edwin M., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Duff, Michael J., Oskar Klein Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year
term, September 1, 1999
Larson, Ronald G., George Granger Brown Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
five year term, September 1, 1999
McCrudden, John C., Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law, Law School, four month term,
September 1, 1999
Mouroukos, Evangelos, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Neal, Homer A., Samuel A. Goudsmit Collegiate Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, five year term, September 1, 1999
Railton, Peter A., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Shankar, Krishnan, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, five year term, September 1, 1999
Stanton, Domna C., Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Steel, Duncan G., Peter S. Fuss Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering, five year term,
September 1, 1999
Tolliver, Melba, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Van Dam, Raymond H., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, four month term, September 1, 1999
Walton, Kendall L., Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004


56




September Meeting, 1999


Transfer of Tenure
Chamberlin, John R., from Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to Professor of
Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Political Science, with tenure, School of Public Policy, September 1, 1999
Cohen, David K., from Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of Public
Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to Professor of Education, with tenure (75%), School of
Education, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure (25%), School of Public Policy, August 1, 1999
Corcoran, Mary E., from Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy,
to Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, with tenure (50%), College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, Professor of Public Policy, with tenure (50%), School of Public Policy,
August 1, 1999
Courant, Paul N., from Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to
Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure (25%), and Professor of Public Policy, with
tenure (75%), School of Public Policy, August 1, 1999
Danziger, Sheldon H., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to Professor of Social Work, with tenure
(75%), School of Social Work, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure (25%), School of Public
Policy, August 1, 1999
Deardoff, Alan V., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to
Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure (75%), College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure (25%), School of Public Policy, August 1,
1999
Feldman, Martha S., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to
Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure (75%), College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure (25%), School of Public Policy,
August 1, 1999
Simon, Carl P., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, to Professor
of Economics and Public Policy, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, School of Public Policy, August 1, 1999
Other Transactions
Colenback, Timothy L., Interim Assistant Dean for Student Services, School of Social Work, one year
term, November 1, 1999
Gillum, Linda H., from Assistant Dean for Student Programs, Medical School, to Assistant Provost for
Academic Affairs, Office of the Provost, September 1,1999
Keeney, Wendy S., Assistant Dean for Development and External Relations, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Alumni Association, Business and Financial Affairs Committee
Beaver, Frank E., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Traugott, Michael W., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Kinnear, Thomas C., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Richard P. Bagozzi, on leave
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
APPOINTED OCTOBER 1, 1999-SEPTEMBER 30, 2000
Christiansen, Roy H., new appointment
Goss, James, vice Anne Hatcher, term expired
REAPPOINTED OCTOBER 1, 1999-SEPTEMBER 30, 2000
Dance, William H             Heydon, Peter N.              Kingsley, Thomas
Diedrich, Duane N.           Hoyt, Ruth Briggs             Klancnik, James M.
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr.  Hurley, William L.          Lowenhaupt, Charles


57




September Meeting, 1999


Hayes, Walter                Kennedy, Sally                 Mason, Philip P
Pohrt, Richard A..           Seger, Martha R                van den Bosch, Elizabeth
Price, Jacob M.              Shapiro, Harold T              Wheeler, John D.
Schoff, Joanna               Thompson, Bradley L. II        Winkleman, Margaret W.
Schoonhoven, Anne Marie      Upton, David
Clements Library Committee of Management
Thurber, Cleveland, Jr., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2003
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selections Committee
Ford, Geraldine B., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Charlotte M. Hanson, term expired
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Abriola, Linda M., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000, vice Yoram Koren, sabbatical leave
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Chamberlin, John R., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Hugh L. Montgomery, term
expired
England, Anthony W., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Abigail J. Stewart, term expired
Root, Margaret C., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Maris A. Vinovskis, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Neuman, Shirley C., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Terrance J. McDonald, yielding to new dean
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Jackson, James S., September 1-December 31, 1999, vice Sonya O. Rose, on leave
Military Officer Education Program Committee
Bradley, Bruce E., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Charles P. Keamey,
resigned
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Ahmed, Ismael N., September 15, 1999-August 15, 2003, vice Margaret Campbell, term expired
Kughn, Linda, reappointed September 15, 1999-August 15, 2003
Porter, Michael C., September 15, 1999-August 15, 2003, vice David Katz, term expired
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Donegan, Mary M., September 1-December 31, 1999, vice Richard H. Moyer, on leave
Personnel reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, unless otherwise indicated
Aamot, Kirk C., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Ahrends, Maike, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Allison, David W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Anastasopoulos, Achilleas, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering
Arakelian, Irina M., M.S., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Askew, Kelly M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican
and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Austin, Todd M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Avidan, Alon Y., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Balogh, Linda M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
July 1, 1999


58




September Meeting, 1999


Barnes, Janice E., M.Sc., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering
Bhatnagar, Seema, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bingham, Derek R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bird, Peter L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering
Biswas, Debjit, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Bobek, Eileen M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Bohn, Amy C., M.D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, six month term, July 1, 1999
Borsa, Paul A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology
Boyk, Daniel W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Brennan, Kathleen A., J.D., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, one year term, July 1, 1999
Brennan, Mary F., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Brook, Robert D., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Bullard-Berent, Jeffrey, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, one year term,
July 1, 1999
Cabana, Michael D., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, one year
term, July 1, 1999
Carswell, Brent J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Cerny, Joseph C., M.D., Clinical Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Champine, Donna J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Chang, Edward C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Chen, Jian-Jun, Ph.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Chetcuti, Stanley J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Childress, Anita G., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Choi, Hester H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
September 1, 1999
Chou, Queena, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, one year term, July 1,
1999
Cibrik, Diane M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Clemens, J. Quentin, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Close, Julie P., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, two year term, July 1, 1999
Collings, Anthony C., M.A., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Collins, Peter A., M.A., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Cooke, David, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, August 1,
1999
Cooper, William L., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, two year term, July 1,
1999
Craig, Anita S. W., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
one year term, September 1, 1999
Craig, Clifford L., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, one year term,
August 1, 1999
Cunningham, Rebecca M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Davies, Peter H., M.A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
DesChamps, Nicole A., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design
Devejian, Neil S., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
DiFranco, Duane J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term, August 3,
1999
Douglas, Nancy L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Reading and Language Arts, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2002
Dyke, David B., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Em, Henry H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Epelman, Marina A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering
Farjo, Qais A., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-July 6, 2000
Finn, Janet L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work


59




September Meeting, 1999


Fountain, Ricky D., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Garton, Hugh J. L., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, September 1, 1999
Gauger, Paul G., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 19, 1999-June 30, 2000
Givelberg, Edward, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Goddard, Roger D., M.A., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2003
Goertz, Karein K., Ph.D., Lecturer III in German, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Goyette, Kimberly A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Grayson, Carla E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Greenfield, Diann M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Hanna, Philip C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, two
year term, July 1, 1999
Harter, Donald E., M.S., Lecturer in Business, School of Business Administration
Himle, Joseph A., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term,
July 1, 1999
Hoeffner, James H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hofweber, Thomas, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Hom, Darren B., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Hutsler, Jeffrey J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Inadomi, John M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1,
1999
Jensen, Robert W., J.D., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, one year term, September 1, 1999
Johnson, T. Mark, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, one year term, July 7, 1999
Jones, Geoffrey L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
August 1, 1999
Kale, Prashant V., M.A., Lecturer in Business, School of Business Administration
Kannan, Srimathi, Ph.D., Lecturer in Environmental Health Science, School of Public Health,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Karunakar, Madhav A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 15, 1999-June 30, 2000
Kaseta, Jennifer R., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
August 1, 1999
Katzan, Cynthia M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Kelso, Jennifer L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Kessinger, Colin C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Operations Management, School of Business Administration
Khan, Halimur R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Russian Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Khan, Mohamed K., Ph.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, one year term, July 1,
1999
Kim, Clara, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 12,
1999
Kleer, Celina G., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Knickerbocker, Patricia J., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1999-May 31,
2000
Kohn, Laura P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kwon, Illoong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
La Rouere, Janice, M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 12, 1999-June 30, 2002
Land, Isaac E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Langa, Kenneth M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Lawson, Daniel B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Lee, Dong-Ho, D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, three year term,
August 1, 1999
Lewis, Mark E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering
Liu, James T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Losman, Eve D., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Luebbe, Christopher D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -June 30, 1999


60




September Meeting, 1999


Lutzker, Adam, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Lynch, John W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, one year term,
September 1, 1999
Maixner, Susan M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term,
July 1, 1999
Majeske, Karl D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration, School of Business Administration, three
year term, September 1, 1999
Mars, Joan R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Martin, Scott B., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Maxwell, Robert A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McGee, Sean H., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Mehdian, Seyed M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance, UM-Flint School of Management, July 1, 1999 -May 31, 2002
Mei, Chunhui, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn School of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Meraw, Stephen J., D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 19, 1999 -August 31, 2002
Milanov, Rossen I., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), School of Music, September 1,
1999- May 31, 2003
Miller, Gloria K., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, two year term, July 1, 1999
Mina, Nima, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Persian Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 1999
Mody, Lona, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Mohanty, Pravansu S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn School of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Moore, Kristen S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Mosher, Bryan D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Mouroukos, Evangelos, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Mousseau, Cedric W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn School of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Moy, Mei-Ying A., M.Ed., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Nawid, Senzil, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 1999
Negele, Judy C., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 9,
1999- August 31, 2000
Ning, Chiang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Nosrat, Christopher A., D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, three year term,
October 1, 1999
Nwankwo, Ifeoma C., B.A., Instructor in English Language and Literature and Instructor in
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Obrecht, Michelle L., M.A., Lecturer II in History, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Oden, Esra, B.A., Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Ozel, Bilge, M.A., Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Park, Jee-Hyun, M.A., Lecturer II in Korean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
1999- April 30, 2000
Petrova, Guergana P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Pfeifle, Robert M., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, one year term, July 1, 1999
Pomeranz, Elaine S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 1999-July 31, 2000
Prager, Richard L., M.D., Clinical Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, July 12, 1999-June 30, 2000
Presswood, Colleen S., M.A., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, one year term, July 1, 1999
Quay, Nancy J., M.S.W., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Queralto-Hernandez, Paula, B.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000


61




September Meeting, 1999


Richert, Norman J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, one
year term, July 1, 1999
Riddell, James, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 15, 1999
Roeser, Waldomar M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, one year term,
September 1, 1999
Rudich, Steven M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, one year term, August 1,
1999
Rushton, Jerry L., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, one year
term, July 1, 1999
Russell, Rachel M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Rust, Elizabeth M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Physiology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Sandler, Kevin S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, July 1-August 31, 1999
Santamarina, Xiomara A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant
Professor of Afroamerican Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Saran, Rajiv, M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, July 1,
1999
Sarch, Amy S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communications, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Scheeres, Daniel J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering
Schellenberg, Kathryn L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Schilling, Stephen G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2003
Schwartz, David A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Schwartz, Jennifer L., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Scofield, Thomas L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Senders, Stefan J., Ph.D., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Shah, Gaurang V., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Shah, Priti R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shaikh, Zubair A., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Shedden, Kerby A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shelton, J. Nicole, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Shryock, Andrew J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shulman, Michael E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Siden, Rivka, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, August 16, 1999 -August 31, 2002
Silverman, Emily D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment
Sneider, Michael B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Stein, Julie A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, one year term,
August 16, 1999
Stephenson, Janice M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, on year term,
September 1, 1999
Stolyarov, Dmitriy L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Straugh, Jeremy B., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Streetman, Daniel S., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, July 6, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Sullivan, Kevin P., M.A., Lecturer II in Old Testament, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 1999
Sun, Zhilin, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 15, 1999-June 30, 2000
Superstein, Rosanne, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, one year term, July 7, 1999
Tamer, Helen R., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
July 26, 1999-June 30, 2000
Thacher, David E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, and Assistant
Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Tipton, Sara M., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 1999
Tsoffar, Ruth, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Hebrew Language and Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts


62




September Meeting, 1999


Tuteja, Sony, Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, August 23, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Upchurch, Gilbert R., Jr., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, one year term,
August 1, 1999
VanHoewyk, Deborah S., M.A., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering
Verdesio, Gustavo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Wallace, Richard R., M.S., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Warner, M. Dhyanne, Ph.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, one year
term, May 1, 1999
Wasserman, Ronald A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
August 16, 1999-August 31, 2000
Weckesser, Warren G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Welbourne, Theresa M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, School of Business Administration
West, Adrienne L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Ophthalmology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Wilkinson, Deborah S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work
Wilson, Gisela F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Wilson, Thomas E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Winter, Ruth R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, one year term,
July 1, 1999
Wolfenzon, Daniel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration
Wray, Linda A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medical Education, Medical School, four year term, July 1,
1999
Zajia, Regina M., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Zeleznik, W. Scott, M.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Zhang, Jie, Ph.D., Lecturer in Marketing, School of Business Administration
Zwiep, Mary N., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Hilton-Watson, Matthew A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
(previously reported as Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages)
CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Piccoli, Sonia, Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
(declined appointment)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, unless otherwise indicated
Bisognano, John D., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Everett, John G., from Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering to Lecturer in Civil
and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering
Froehlich, James B., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Granzow-De La Cerda, Inigo, Lecturer II in Biology, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Harkness, Michael D., from Lecturer in Accounting and Finance to Assistant Professor of Accounting
and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of Management, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Hickenbottom, Susan L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-August 31, 2000


63




September Meeting, 1999


Iwamoto, Lisa M., from Lecturer in Architecture to Assistant Professor of Practice, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Keane, Michael P., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Kraus, Carolyn, from Lecturer in Rhetoric and English Composition to Assistant Professor of
Communications and Composition and Director, Department of Humanities, UM-Dearbom
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, one year term, July 1, 1999
Krebs, Angela S., from Lecturer in Mathematics to Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Montgomery, Susan M., from Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering to Lecturer in Chemical
Engineering, College of Engineering
Saint, Sanjay K., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Scott, Craig B., from Lecturer in Architecture to Assistant Professor of Practice, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Swisher, Stephen A., from Lecturer in Surgery to Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, one
year term, July 1, 1999
Younger, John G., from Lecturer in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, one year
term, July 1, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Richard J., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Professor Emeritus
of Pediatrics, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Bassett, John R., Professor Emeritus of Forestry, School of Natural Resources and Environment, one year
term, September 1, 1999
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Burling, Robbins, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics and Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, four month term, September 1, 1999
Fajans, Stefan, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, August 1, 1999
Gold, Martin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four month
term, September 1, 1999
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Kaufman, Peter B., Professor Emeritus of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four
month term, September 1, 1999
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, six month term, January 1,
2000
Lorey, Robert E., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, one year term, July 1, 1999
Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
McNamara, Leo F., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Mohr, Lawrence B., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, four month term, September 1, 1999
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four
month term, September 1, 1999
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information, four month term, September 1, 1999
Shafter, Edward M., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Engineering, four month term,
September 1, 1999
Stem, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Economics and Public Policy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, four month term,
September 1, 1999


64




September Meeting, 1999


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Alexander, Richard D., Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University Professor of Evolutionary
Biology, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, Museum of Zoology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, July 1-December 31, 1999
Anderson, William J., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough
Annesley, Thomas M., Professor of Clinical Chemistry, without tenure, and Director, Clinical Chemistry
Program, Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1999
Aronson, Meigan C., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave
Bagozzi, Richard P., Dwight F. Benton Professor of Marketing and Professor of Behavioral Science in
Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, personal leave
Ball, Aretha F., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, personal leave
Bardakjian, Kevork B., Marie Manoogian Associate Professor, Associate Professor of Armenian
Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and
Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September
1- December 31, 1999
Bartholomew, Lynne, Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, School of Music, retirement
furlough
Bean, Michael A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
outside teaching leave
Behar, Ruth, Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Bernstein, Steven J., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, August 1, 1999-July 31, 2000
Birge, John R., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
personal leave
Borgnakke, Claus, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Burmeister, Margit, Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, and
Associate Professor of Human genetics, without tenure, Mental Health Research Institute, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, August 1, 1999-July 31, 2000
Carnahan, Brice, Professor of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough (phased retirement), March 29, 1999-May 31, 2001
Chen, Michael M., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Chhibber, Pradeep K., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2000
Cohen, David W., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, without tenure,
Professor of Social Science, without tenure, Residential College, and Director, International
Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
1999, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Colas, Santiago, Associate Professor of Spanish, Latin American Literature, and Comparative Literature,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
1999, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Cullen, Julianne B., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave
Curley, Edwin M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Davies, Peter H., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Derr, Ellwood S., Jr., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2000
Deshpande, Madhav, Professor of Sanskrit, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
DeYoung, Glenn H., Jr., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2000
Dickerson, Glenda, Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Dierker, Steven B., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave


65




September Meeting, 1999


Downs, Laura L., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave
Ellis, Steffany G., Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, personal leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Epstein, Samuel D., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Essene, Eric J., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Feuerwerker, Yi-Tsi, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
Fisher, Daniel C., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, Professor of Biological Sciences, with
tenure, Curator of Paleontology, Museum of Paleontology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Florida, Nancy K., Associate Professor of Indonesian Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Fogel, Jessica K., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Freese, Katherine, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Froseth, James O., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in
Education, School of Education, retirement furlough
Gallimore, Alec D., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Ginsburg, Elliot K., Associate Professor of Jewish Thought, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Grandison, Kenrick I., Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave
Gruber, James E., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Guerrero, Elisabeth S., Assistant Professor of Spanish, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, outside teaching leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Guinn, Leslie F., Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, School of Music, retirement furlough
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of American Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Hagerty, Bonnie M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 2000
Hancock, David J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave
Hayes, Jarrod L., Assistant Professor of French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Hays, Paul B., Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology, Professor of Aerospace
Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, retirement furlough
Heinonen, Juha, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave
Heirich, Jane R., Lecturer III in Music, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Highfill, Juli A., Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave
Hirschfeld, Lawrence A., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Hook, Peter E., Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Hughes, Diane O., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Hutchinson, Raymond J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, August 16, 1999-February 15, 2000
Ingram, William, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Director, Pilot Program,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough
Ioannou, Photios G., Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Islam, Mohammed N., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave


66




September Meeting, 1999


Israel, Kali A. K., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Janz, Nancy K., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of
Public Health, sabbatical leave
Johnson, George E., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Kamrani, Ali K., Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Kane, Gordon L., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Keane, E. Webb, Jr., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Kercher, Marley L., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, extended sick
leave, July 7-August 15, 1999
Kerr, Philip, Claribel Baird Halstead Professor of Theatre and Professor of Theatre and Drama, with
tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Kesler, Stephen E., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Kibbie, James W., Associate Professor of Music (Organ), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-December 31, 2000
Knysh, Alexander D., Professor of Islamic Studies, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Near Eastern
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31,
1999
Konnak, John W., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough (phased),
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001
Koren, Yoram, Paul G. Goebel Professor of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Krause, Neal M., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Krisch, Alan D., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Krisch, Jean P., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave
Laird, John E., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave
Lang, Walter P., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, extended sick leave,
August 1, 1999-July 31, 2000
Lawrence, Ruth J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Lawton, Richard G., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Liang, Hsin-Hsin, Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, personal leave
Lomax, Ronald J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough
Longo, Michael J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Lott, John W., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave
Low, Bobbi S., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Lundholm, Russell J., Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting and Professor of Accounting, with
tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
MacAlpine, Gordon M., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, outside teaching assignment
MacCormack, Sabine G., Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen Jr. Professor for the Study of Human
Understanding, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999,
and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Mancy, Khalil H., Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, School of Public Health,
retirement furlough


67




September Meeting, 1999


Mannheim, Bruce, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Director, Latin American and
Carribean Programs, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Mastrangelo, Carlos H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
McLoughlin, Angela L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, personal
leave, August 14, 1999-August 13, 2000
Merriwether, David A., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Assistant Professor of Biology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Moran, Gerald F., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Morris, Charles G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Moyer, Richard H., Professor of Science Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
personal leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Mueggler, Erik A., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with tenure,
and Director, Jean and Samuel Frankel Center for Judaic Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Nornes, Mark H., Assistant Professor of Film and Video and Assistant Professor of Asian Languages and
Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Nowak, Andrzej S., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Nussbaum, Ronald A., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, Director, Edwin S. George Reserve, and
Curator, Museum of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
June 1-July 31, 1999
Owings, Clyde L., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Parsons, Jeffrey R., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of Latin American
Archaeology, Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave
Peterson, Paul K., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Pincus, Leslie B., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Pitt, Bertram, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, research leave, September 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Puff, Helmut, Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Assistant Professor of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
Rappe, Sara L., Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999, and scholarly activity leave, January
1- May 31, 2000
Rast, Hubert, Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, personal leave
Richardson, Ruby J., Dow Professor of Toxicology, Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, School of
Public Health and Associate Professor of Neurotoxicology, without tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave
Robertson, Jennifer E., Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999, and duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Root, Margaret C., Professor of Classical and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology, with tenure, and
Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus
Ross, Michael L., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, September 21-December 15, 1999
Saxonhouse, Arlene W., Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
Schonle, Andreas X., Assistant Professor of Pre-Nineteenth Century Russian Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave


68




September Meeting, 1999


Scott, Rebecca J., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 2000
Scott, Julius S., III, Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies and Assistant Professor of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31,
1999
Severance, Dennis G., Arthur Andersen Professor of Computer and Information Systems and Professor
of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical
leave
Sheldon, Jane P., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, extended sick leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Shryock, Andrew J., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave
Sipowska, Jadwiga T., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave
Smith, Edward E., Arthur W. Melton Professor of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Smith, Joanne A., Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, School of Music, retirement
furlough, effective January 1-December 31, 2000
Smith, Sidonie A., Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Spector, Scott D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Assistant Professor of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Stanton, Domna C., Professor of Romance Languages and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Stevenson, Harold W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-June 30, 2000
Stoler, Ann L., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Studier, Eugene H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Biology, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Takata, Azumi A., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1999, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Thakor, Anjan V., Edward J. Frey Professor of Banking and Finance and Professor of Finance, with
tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave
Townsend, Leroy B., Albert B. Prescott Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Professor of Pharmacy, with
tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Ulgen, Onur, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
School of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Van Dam, Raymond H., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Van der Pluijm, Ben A., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Van Leer, Bram, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-December 31, 2000
Wagner, R. Brent, Associate Professor of Music (Musical Theatre), with tenure, School of Music,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Wald, Alan M., Professor of English and American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Walker, James C., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Geological Sciences, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retirement furlough
Weiner, Norman D., Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, duty off campus,
September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Williams, Reg A., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2000
Wolpoff, Milford H., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Wright, Steven J., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Wu, Chien-Fu J., Harry Clyde Carver Professor of Statistics, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999


69




September Meeting, 1999


Wyneken, Matthew F., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Zuiderweg, Erik R. P., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January
1- June 30, 2000
Zurier, Rebecca, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave
CHANGES TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Apple, Charles G., Associate Professor of Communication, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31, 2000 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1999)
Bord, Donald J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
sabbatical leave, January 1-February 28, 1999, and September 1-December 31, 1999 (previously
reported as January 1-February 28, 1999)
Payton, Sallyanne, Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
(previously reported as September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Angus, David L., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, August 14, 1999
Cooper, Mary A., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, UM-Flint School of Education, July 17, 1999
Resigned
Achenbaum, W. Andrew, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 31, 1999
Arend, Lois J., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, August 31,1999
Bailey, Marlon M., Assistant Professor of African American Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, May 31, 1999
Barritt, Matthew D., Lecturer in Business Administration, School of Business Administration, August 31,
1999
Bowen, Glen M., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Bunker, Marsha L., Lecturer in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies, June 30,
1999
Chen, Zhi, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Denno, Matthew L., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Dillon, James E., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 18, 1999
Doukas, David J., Associate Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, August 23,
1999
Ettlie, John E., Associate Professor of Operations Management, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, July 31, 1999
Giralt, Alicia, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Golder, Daniel T., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 20, 1999
Hertzberg, Todd M., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Hirshleifer, David A., Merwin H. Waterman Collegiate Professor of Finance and Professor of Finance,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, May 31, 1999
Hoffman, Daniel, Professor of Practice in Architecture, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 1999
Jose, Raji P., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Kannan, Rajgopal, Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn School of
Engineering, April 30, 1999
Kleinman, Kent F., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 1999
Ladabaum, Uri, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999
Lansing, John S., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
May 31, 1999


70




September Meeting, 1999


Lauter, Kristin E., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant
Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 31, 1999
LeBel, Joseph S., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Lee, Laura W., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, August 15,
1999
Litzenburger, Liesel L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 1999
MacNeil, Roderick L., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, August 31, 1999
Mathews, Lawrence S., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Metrou, Mary E., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, July 31, 1999
Mick, Stephen S., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
August 31, 1999
Monroe, Barbara J., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 31, 1999
Mulligan, Michael S., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 23, 1999
Muriel, Ana, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration, July 31,
1999
Murnane, Margaret M., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Physics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Neimatallah, Mohammed A., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Ohye, Richard G., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Prince, Martin R., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Ray, Sibabrata, Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn School of
Engineering, August 16, 1999
Raz, Jonathan A., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, June 30, 1999
Razdan, Sanjay, Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 15, 1999
Robins, Lynne S., Assistant Professor of Medical Education, Medical School, June 25, 1999
Sayed, Esha O., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 26, 1999
Schumacher, Eric H., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
1999
Severin, John D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical School, May 31, 1999
Shureiqi, Imad, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 25, 1999
Teoh, Siew H., Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
May 31, 1999
Velasco, Paul C., Lecturer in Business Economics, School of Business Administration, August 31, 1999
Warther, Vincent A., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration, May 31, 1999
Weadock, William J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 23, 1999
Weinstein, David L., Sanford R. Robertson Associate Professor of Business Administration, Research
Professor of Japanese Business, and Associate Professor of International Business, without tenure,
School of Business Administration, May 31, 1999
Worden, Melissa K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, September 10, 1999
Yeung, Bernard Y., Associate Professor of International Business, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, July 31, 1999
Zelenock, Gerald B., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Zukin, Jane, Lecturer II in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Retired
Bergmann, Frithjof H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Holden, Sally, Associate Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure, School of Dentistry, August 31, 1999
Miller, J. Thomas, Jr., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, July 19, 1999
Muirhead, Robb J., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1999
Patt, Yale N., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, June 30, 1999
Schork, Michael A., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, August 31, 1999
Smith, Frederic N., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, July 31, 1999
Zillich, Richard M., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, July 31, 1999
Term Completed
Amferov, Vladimir A., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999


71




September Meeting, 1999


Bailey, Joseph F., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 30, 1999
Bernstein, Marc S., Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1999
Best, Stephen D., Instructor in Education, School of Education, June 30, 1999
Bucher, Stephan, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 1999
Clapcich, Anthony J., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 31, 1999
Clark, Walter H., Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Coulter, Kevin P., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Curl, Rane L., Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, December 31, 1998
Derberger, Robert F., Director, Center for Chinese Studies, and Professor Emeritus of Economics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
De Albaladejo Galus, Claudia, Lecturer II in Spanish Literature, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Farghaly, Ali, Lecturer III in Arabic Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
1999
Ferry, Elizabeth E., Lecturer II in Anthropology and Lecturer II in English, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Gailey, Noelle R., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1999
Henkin, Joshua H., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 1999
Hittinger, Jennifer L. F., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 1999
Kaul, Daniel R., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Kim, Angela W., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 6, 1999
Kineke, Sheila A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Kumar, Nivedita S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1999
Lane, Gregory C., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Lin, Ali M. T., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Long, Tammy M., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Luhtanen, Riia K., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
McAlister-Raebum, Clare, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Musick, Marc A., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Nadasdy, Paul E., Lecturer II in Anthropology and Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Ofotokun, Ighovwerha, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Olwell, Russell B., Lecturer II in History of Science and Technology, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Palmieri, Patricia A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Parks, William T., III, Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 31, 1999
Pollock, David A., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 6, 1999
Quinn, Timothy J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Radany, Eric H., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 31, 1999
Ramachandran, Niranjan, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Rekdal, Paisley B., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1998
Saunders, Phillip L., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 6, 1999
Schaffer, Natasha V., Lecturer I in International Studies, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Schoenfisch, Mark H., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Schubnell, Michael S. G., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Seto, Catherine L., Lecturer II in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Smith, Deborah E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Stricker, Lori J., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 12, 1999
Stuart, Robin G., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
1999


72




September Meeting, 1999


Tien, Tseng-Ying, Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering, College of Engineering, July 31, 1999
Van Bonn, Kathleen C., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 1999
Walwyn Karen M., Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, May 31, 1999
Weber, Brenda R., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1998
Wineinger, David K., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Yang, Michael B., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 6, 1999
CANCELLATION OF
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Boyd, lain D., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering (previously approved in
July 1999) see corrected communication submitted in September 1999
Retirement memoirs. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted memoirs
for eight retiring faculty members.
Frithjof H. Bergmann, Ph.D., professor of philosophy, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1999, following forty-one years of service.
Professor Bergmann received his B.A. degree from Lewis and Clark College in
1951 and his Ph.D. degree from Princeton University in 1959. He joined the University
of Michigan faculty as an instructor in philosophy in 1958. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1961, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1974.
Professor Bergmann's interests include continental philosophy-especially Hegel,
Nietzsche, Sartre, and existentialism generally-and also social and political philosophy,
philosophical anthropology and philosophy of culture. His book, On Being Free (Notre
Dame, 1977), was issued in a paperback edition in 1978 and had twelve printings.
Professor Bergmann has published numerous articles on Hegal, Nietzsche, and Sartre
and on the emotions, values and morality, human rights, and work, as well as freedom.
In his teaching, Professor Bergmann is renowned for his breadth of vision, passion,
energy, and eloquence. Over the years, his courses on existentialism and on Hegel,
Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud were consistently oversubscribed. In 1971, he received the
Amoco Award for distinguished teaching, and he has also been recognized by national
publications as one of the most outstanding teachers on the Ann Arbor campus. He has
produced three series of philosophy videotapes:  "The Logic of Freedom," "The
Mentality of Modern Culture," and "Culture After the Elimination of Labor."
Since 1981, Professor Bergmann has been involved in the founding and
development of the Center for New Work in Flint. He has served as director of the
center since it opened in 1984. His contributions to the study of new work have reflected
his interest in practical, social, and cultural implications of philosophical thought, most
notably strands he has identified in Hegel and other nineteenth-century theorists.
Professor Bergmann has lectured widely on these themes and has consulted for major
corporations. He has held visiting appointments at the University of California at
Berkeley and at Santa Cruz; the University of Chicago; and Stanford University.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Frithjof H. Bergmann
professor emeritus of philosophy.
Sunil K. Das, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from active faculty
status on June 30, 1999, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Malaysia, Dr. Das received his B.A. degree from Manchester College in
Indiana in 1955 and his M.D. degree from the University of Kansas in 1959. He served


73




September Meeting, 1999


his internship at Detroit General Hospital from 1959-60 and his residency at the
University of Michigan from 1960-62. Dr. Das joined the University of Michigan
Medical School as an instructor in cardiology in 1967. He was promoted to assistant
professor of internal medicine in 1968, associate professor in 1974, and professor in 1992.
Dr. Das has contributed strength and vitality to both instructional and research
programs in the Department of Internal Medicine. He has been an outstanding educator of
medical students, house officers, and fellows. His teaching skills were recognized when
he was given the H. Marion Pollard Award for Outstanding Resident Teaching in 1988.
Dr. Das' imaginative and outstanding clinical and teaching efforts have brought
distinction to the Division of Cardiology and Department of Internal Medicine. He has
been an outstanding member of the division and department for over 21 years.
The Regents now salute this distinguished clinician for his dedicated service by
naming Sunil K. Das professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Sally Holden, associate professor of dental hygiene in the School of Dentistry,
retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1999.
Professor Holden received her certificate of dental hygiene from Northwestern
University in 1955, her B.A. degree from the University of Colorado in 1965, and her
M.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1970. She received a certificate in
dental auxiliary faculty training in 1977 from the University of Washington. She was a
dental hygienist in the Denver public school system from 1955-57 and co-director of the
dental hygiene program at Rangley Junior College in Colorado from 1965-67. Professor
Holden joined the University of Michigan as a research associate in 1967. She was
promoted to instructor in 1971 and associate professor, with tenure, in 1977. She is both
a registered dental hygienist and a registered dental assistant in the state of Michigan.
Professor Holden has been an integral member of the dental hygiene program
faculty during her tenure at the School of Dentistry. She has been involved with 85
theses in the fields of periodontics, occlusion, dental hygiene, orthodontics, and
endodontics and has mentored students in the School of Nursing and at Kalamazoo
College. Her publications have been in the areas of occlusion and oral hygiene. She has
published workbooks on dental anatomy and occlusion and is a contributing author for a
textbook on physiology and occlusion. Over the years, she has also served on a number
of committees within the School of Dentistry.
Professor Holden has served as consultant to the Michigan State Board of Dental
Examiners, the Michigan Dental Hygienist Association, the New York Public Health
Department, and the American Research Center in Aswan, Egypt. She has also been
active in organized dentistry as a member of the Michigan Registered Dental Assistant
Examination Committee since 1978. Professor Holden holds professional memberships
in the American and Michigan Dental Hygienists' Associations and the Michigan
Association of Dental Hygiene Educators.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Sally
Holden associate professor emerita of dental hygiene.
Charles C. Kelsey, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1999.
Dr. Kelsey received his B.S., D.D.S., and M.S. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1956, 1964, and 1967, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan


74




September Meeting, 1999


faculty as a clinical instructor in 1964 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1967,
associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1973. During his tenure at the School of
Dentistry, he served as interim director of the graduate prosthodontics program in 1992.
Dr. Kelsey has been a strong participant in the department's teaching and clinical
activity at the pre-doctoral and graduate levels and through continuing dental education
programs. He served as co-chair of the International Prosthodontics Workshop on
Complete Denture Occlusion in 1972. He was appointed school historian in 1972.
During the School of Dentistry's centennial celebration in 1975, Dr. Kelsey was an
integral part of the alumni program entitled "History of the School of Dentistry." Dr.
Kelsey's committee service includes two terms on the School of Dentistry Executive
Committee, chair of the library committee, and membership on the graduate studies and
admission committees. He was also an integral part of the Gordon H. Sindecuse
Museum of Dentistry committee during its development. At the university level, he was
a member of the Senate Assembly from 1973-76, served as secretary of the Senate
Assembly from 1979-82, and was appointed by SACUA to the Library Council and the
Civil Liberties Board.
Dr. Kelsey became a diplomat of the American Board of Prosthodontics in 1969,
and he was a charter fellow of the American College of Prosthodontists. He maintained
memberships in the American Association of University Professors, the American
Association of Dental Schools, the American Association of Dental Editors, the
American and Michigan Dental Associations, and the Washtenaw District Dental
Society, and he was a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon and Phi Kappa Phi honorary
societies. Dr. Kelsey served as president of the Chi Chapter of OKU in 1996.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Charles
C. Kelsey professor emeritus of dentistry.
Neil 0. Leighton, Ph.D., professor of political science, College of Arts and
Sciences, University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1999.
Born in Cleveland, Ohio, Professor Leighton received his B.A. degree in 1959 from
Otterbein College and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1966 and 1971, respectively, from
Indiana University. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint as an
assistant professor of political science in 1973. He was promoted to associate professor
in 1976 and to professor in 1990.
Professor Leighton's distinguished career includes field research in Sierra Leone,
where he studied Lebanese emigration. He taught and conducted research in South
Africa and was visiting professor and chair at the University of Western Cape. He was a
leader in pioneering the use of oral history to reconstruct and analyze the Flint Sit-down
Strike, which led to the creation of the United Auto Workers. He later developed a
course, "Exploring Community History," in which students used the technique of oral
history to learn about the community in which they live and work.
At UM-Flint, Professor Leighton served as chair of the Department of Political
Science from 1982-86 and also served on a number of committees within the College of
Arts and Sciences.  He was a member of the board of directors of the International
Institute and the American Civil Liberties Union and was the chancellor's representative
to the boards of the Labor History Museum and the Learning Center of Michigan.


75




September Meeting, 1999


The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Neil O. Leighton
professor emeritus of political science.
Michael A. Schork, Ph.D., professor of biostatistics and senior associate dean for
academic affairs in the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 1999.
Professor Schork received his B.A. (1958) and M.S. (1960) degrees from the
University of Notre Dame and his M.P.H. (1961) and Ph.D. (1963) degrees from the
University of Michigan. He joined the Department of Biostatistics as an instructor in
1962 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, associate professor in 1967, and
professor in 1972. Professor Schork was named senior associate dean for academic
affairs in the School of Public Health in November 1997, having first served as acting
associate dean (September 1996) and associate dean (June 1997).
Professor Schork has made valuable contributions to the teaching of the
fundamentals of biostatistics since the department's inception in the early 1960s as an
area of methodology at the interface of statistics and biomedical research. He is the
co-author of one of the earliest, and still highly respected, texts developing the concepts,
computations, and interpretations of basic statistical procedures for investigators and
students in the health sciences. He has been an important collaborator on many research
projects in public health and medicine, most notably in the areas of cardiovascular,
rheumatologic, and pulmonary diseases; the care of patients with heart disease and with
asthma; and the relationship of oral pathogens and heart diseases. These collaborations
have resulted in over 200 publications in the biomedical literature. In recent years,
Professor Schork added administrative duties to his teaching and research involvement in
his role as senior associate dean of the School of Public Health.
In 1996, Professor Schork received the first annual teacher-of-the-year award in the
School of Public Health.  His mentoring capabilities have been recognized and
appreciated by many doctoral students in health sciences. Professor Schork has chaired
or served on over 150 dissertation committees.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Michael A. Schork
professor emeritus of biostatistics.
Frederic N. Smith, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry,
retired from active faculty status on July 31, 1999.
A native of Detroit, Dr. Smith received his B.S. degree in aeronautical engineering
(1958), his D.D.S. degree (1966), his M.S. degree in periodontics (1971), and his Ph.D.
degree in pathology (1972), all from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty
of the University of Michigan as a lecturer in 1971 and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1972, associate professor in 1975, and professor in 1978.  He also
maintained an appointment as assistant professor of surgery in the Medical School from
February 1975 through January 1977 and as associate research scientist in the Dental
Research Institute from 1977-91. During his tenure at the School of Dentistry, Dr. Smith
served as acting department chair of periodontics in 1975 and acting director of the
graduate periodontics program in 1993.
Dr. Smith started a private practice in periodontics in 1976 and reduced his
professorial appointment to half time in 1980. He was a director or co-director of many
pre doctoral, graduate, and postgraduate courses. He served the School of Dentistry as a


76




September Meeting, 1999


member of the executive committee, the library committee, and the curriculum
committee. He has also been active in organized dentistry through various committee
assignments at the local and national levels and has published several articles in juried
journals. His main area of research interest was in the immune responses to plaque
antigens in patients with varying degrees of periodontal disease. Due to his interest in
the clinical education of graduate periodontic students, Dr. Smith has spent the last
portion of his teaching career assisting these graduate students in honing their clinical
and didactic skills.
Dr. Smith is a member of the American and Michigan Dental Associations, the
Washtenaw District Dental Society, the American Academy of Periodontology, the
Western and Midwestern Societies of Periodontology, and the Michigan Periodontal
Association.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Frederic
N. Smith professor emeritus of dentistry.
Richard M. Zillich, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry,
retired from active faculty status on July 31, 1999.
A native of Flint, Dr. Zillich received his D.D.S. degree in 1970 and his M.S.
degree in endodontics in 1973, both from the University of Michigan. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1970 as a clinical instructor and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1976, associate professor in 1982, and professor in 1987. He
served additionally as a lecturer at the Oakdale Center for Developmental Disabilities
from 1972-76 and in 1978.
Upon his graduation from dental school, Dr. Zillich practiced general dentistry
from 1970-72. Since 1973, he has practiced the specialty of endodontics and has
provided both didactic and clinical instruction at the pre doctoral, graduate, and
postgraduate levels. He has served on a number of School of Dentistry committees and
has also been active in organized dentistry at the local and national levels. He developed
several teaching manuals for the School of Dentistry in the field of endodontics, where
his main area of research interest was in the variant root morphology of teeth. Dr. Zillich
served as a member or chair of several master's thesis committees during his tenure at
the School of Dentistry.
Dr. Zillich's professional memberships include the American and Michigan Dental
Associations, the Washtenaw District Dental Society, the American and Michigan
Associations of Endodontists, and the University of Michigan Endodontic Alumni
Association. He is a life member of the University of Michigan Alumni Association and
of Delta Sigma Delta dental fraternity. In 1970, he received the American Association of
Endodontists Senior Class Award for proficiency in endodontics and the R.F. Sommer
Study Club Senior Class Award for excellence in endodontics. He received the
Instructor of the Year Award in 1989, 1991, and 1996. He is a member of the Omicron
Kappa Upsilon honor society and is a charter member of the Wolverine Graduate
Chapter, also serving as secretary from 1990-94.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming
Richard M. Zillich professor emeritus of dentistry.
Memorials.   Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted a memorial
statement for David L. Angus, professor of education.


77




September Meeting, 1999


The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the
death on August 14, 1999, of David L. Angus, professor of education.
Professor Angus earned his B.S., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from The Ohio State
University in 1956, 1960, and 1965, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan
School of Education as an assistant professor in 1966, was promoted to associate
professor in 1969, and to full professor in 1975.
Professor Angus was a nationally renowned historian of education and scholar of
comparative education. He was the author of numerous articles and studies on the
politics of education and the history of curriculum. His recently published book, The
Failed Promise of the American High School, 1890 1995, is a path breaking study of the
problems of American secondary education.   His interests in international and
comparative education took him around the world. His remarkable ability to cross
cultures and engage people with very different perspectives led him to serve as a visiting
professor at the University of Edinburgh and Peking University. In 1966, he was named
Lingnan Scholar in American Studies and Comparative Education at the Chinese
University of Hong Kong and the Hong Kong/American Center. An adventurous and
intrepid traveler, Professor Angus particularly enjoyed leaving well-worn paths to
explore new and exciting places, particularly in East Asia.
A passionate teacher, Professor Angus routinely challenged the conventional
wisdom of his field. His classes were marked by lively exchanges about issues and
ideas. He has a legion of devoted students who hold positions at schools, universities,
and ministries of education across the globe.
In addition to his work as a scholar and teacher, Professor Angus' other great
passions were music and tennis. An accomplished percussionist, he worked his way
through college playing gigs in and around Columbus, Ohio, and following graduation he
spent his military service as a member of the Fifth Army Band. His love of music
continued during his years in Michigan playing with the Ann Arbor Civic Band, Ann
Arbor Civic Choir, and conducting the band for the Dexter Community Theater's musical
productions. He was also a superb tennis player known for his great competitive spirit.
David Angus is survived by his wife, Anna Wu Angus; his children, Amy Angus
Mees, Steven, Jonathan, and Sara; and his grandchildren, David and Emma Mees and
Fionn Angus. He is also survived by his mother, Helen Angus; sister Pat, and brother
Dick. David Angus' work was widely cited and his mentoring of students broadly
acclaimed but what will be especially missed is the passion he brought to everything he
tackled. He will be sorely missed. As we celebrate the life of this distinguished scholar
and teacher, our condolences go to his wife, Anna Wu Angus, as well as his children,
mother, sister, and brother.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
President Bollinger recognized Fred White, associate director of financial
operations; Fred Caryl, financial manager; Pat Ridenour, hospital accounting manager;
and Bob Reske, manager of hospital accounting and reimbursement services and their
staffs for their extraordinary effort that resulted in the closing of the University's
financial books on time. This outcome is remarkable, he noted, given that it is the first


78




September Meeting, 1999


time that the M-Pathways System has been used and because the University has
employed a new external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers. A round of applause
followed.
University of Michigan Financial Statements for Year Ended June 30, 1999
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the financial statements are being
submitted for review this month, prior to consideration of formally adopting them next
month, when the external auditors will be present. He added his thanks to Financial
Operations staff for their efforts in closing the books. Regent Deitch observed that the
Regents, with their fiduciary responsibilities, need to have confidence that dedicated
professionals are doing this work and are providing accurate information, and that he was
grateful that this was the case.
1999-2000 Budgets
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the 1999-2000 budget book, which
formally compiles the budget that was approved in July.
Alternative Asset Commitments
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $15 million to Code Hennessy & Simmons
IV, L.P., up to $20 million to Vestar Capital Partners IV, L.P., and up to $10 million to
Trinity Ventures VII, L.P., pending a favorable review of the legal documents by the
Office of the General Counsel.
State Building Authority Financing of University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Renovation Phase I
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution, requesting and approving the conveyance
of the facilities included in the Dearborn Campus Renovation Project Phase I to the
University.
A RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BODY
OF UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR
THE GENERAL CAMPUS RENOVATION PHASE I
A resolution of the governing body of the University of Michigan (the "Educational Institution")
requesting and approving the conveyance of property and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body corporate created
under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own,
improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage, and maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and
facilities, and sites therefor for use by the state or any of its agencies including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained pursuant to Sections 4
and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the facilities as described in the attached
Exhibit A and the site upon which it was constructed (the described facilities and the site together are the
"Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the Educational Institution and the state of
Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated October 1, 1992 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title to the Facilities to
the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational Institution after the Bonds which financed the


79




September Meeting, 1999


Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided
in the Lease are paid in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary
obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by the Lease as
conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the Authority to the Educational Institution
have occurred.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION THAT:
The Educational Institution hereby requests that the Authority convey title to the Facilities by
quitclaim deed to the University.
The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00) Dollar and the
assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the
operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is approved
and each of the president and executive vice president and chief financial officer of the Educational
Institution is authorized and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such
form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the Educational Institution.
All ordinances, resolutions, and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this resolution are, to the
extent of such conflict, repealed.
This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
Burton Memorial Tower Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that renovations on this building will
focus on updating systems that affect life safety, as well as restoring the exterior windows
and improving finishes throughout the building. He noted that officials are aware of the
importance of this structure as a historical symbol of the university, and that all upgrades
will take this into account.
Regent Horning moved approval of the Burton Memorial Tower Renovation
Project, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Maynard seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
C. C. Little Building Geochemistry Clean Laboratory Renovation - Phase I
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved Phase I of the Geochemistry Clean Laboratory Renovation in the
C.C. Little Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
Student Publications Building Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that this project will address life safety and
accessibility issues, as well as upgrading of the technological infrastructure, while
maintaining the character of this historically significant building. The proposed architect
is experienced at the rehabilitation of historic buildings.
He commented that selection of the architect was made following the normal
procedure, in which several possible architects were identified, and an architect
selection committee, made up of the building's users, was formed. The students who
occupy the building served o thtis committee, and their input will be crucial in helping
to determine the programmatic uses of the building.


80




September Meeting, 1999


Regent Horning moved approval of the Student Publications Building Project and
the appointment of Finegold Alexander + Associates Inc. as architects.  Regent
Maynard seconded the motion. President Bollinger observed that building renovations
have been desired by staff from the Michigan Daily and other student publications for
many years. Michigan Daily alumni will also be asked to participate in renovation
plans. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Forest Avenue Parking Structure City/University of Michigan Partnership
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that this is a proposal to construct and
operate a joint parking structure on Forest Avenue in conjunction with the City of Ann
Arbor. The University will have the use of 32 percent of the parking spaces, and it will
pay 32 percent of all costs associated with the project. Details of the contract governing
the construction period and operation of the facility are still being negotiated. The Ann
Arbor City Council has given the project preliminary approval.
President Bollinger commented that this is only one of a number of collaborations
the University plans to pursue with the city. On a motion by Regent McGowan,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved proceeding with the
design of the Forest Avenue parking structure pursuant to a potential joint venture
agreement with the city of Ann Arbor, as described in the Regents Communication.
980 Broadway, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved sale of 980 Broadway to the city of Ann Arbor at a price of
$88,000. The parcel is needed to allow construction of the Broadway Bridge as desired
by the city.
University of Michigan Hospitals-University Hospital Bed Utilization Plan
Executive Vice President Omenn observed that the University of Michigan Hospitals
are essentially running at full capacity. Plans call for the return to service of 64 beds and
realignment of clinical services to improve patient care efficiencies. This would be done
by integrating medical and surgical disciplines to coordinate the care for specific patient
populations.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the University Hospital Bed Utilization Project and appointment
of an architect.
Proposed Purchasing Contract with Ply LLC
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Ply LLC. Because M. Craig Borum is
both an equal partner in Ply LLC and a University employee, this purchasing contract falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and Ply LLC.


81




September Meeting, 1999


2.   The terms of the contract are that Ply LLC will provide redesign of the web site,
beginning September 15, 1999, and ending January 31, 2000, at a total amount of
$58,600.
3.   Professor Borum's pecuniary interest arises from his position as equal partner of Ply LLC.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the American Association for
Public Opinion Research
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a project agreement between the University of Michigan and the
American Association for Public Opinion Research, the purpose of which is to supply the
administrative and financial services of the American Association for Public Opinion
Research (AAPOR). Because Michael Traugott, senior research scientist in the Center for
Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, is the project's principal investigator for
the University and is also president of AAPOR, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.       The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the American Association
for Public Opinion Research (AAPOR).
2.   Terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The amount of
the agreement will be approximately $263,000. The period of performance is three years.
Michael Traugott, as principal investigator for the University's project, has agreed to
excuse himself from the proposal approval process at the Association. Services requested
of the University by AAPOR during the term of Michael Traugott's presidency will be
approved by two people, the secretary and past president, to determine whether they are
within the scope of the agreement and chargeable to AAPOR.
3.   Michael Traugott receives no salary reimbursement under the secretariat services
agreement; he receives no compensation as president of the Association, although he
is reimbursed for travel expenses.
Agreement for Subcontract between the University of Michigan and Michigan
State University
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and Michigan
State University, involving collaboration with Professor Leonard Fleck of Michigan State
University in carrying out the project, "Engaging Minority Communities in Genetics
Policy Making."
Because Professor Fleck is also an adjunct assistant professor at the University of
Michigan-Flint, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.    The   following  information   is provided    in  compliance   with   statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the subcontract will be the University of Michigan and Michigan State
University.
2.   Under the project a total subcontract of approximately $145,000 is anticipated to cover
the period February 1, 1999, through November 30, 2001. The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   As an adjunct assistant professor at the University of Michigan-Flint, Professor Fleck
receives occasional compensation for teaching services. This appointment is unrelated
to his involvement with this research project.


82




September Meeting, 1999


Agreement for Subcontract between the University of Michigan and the University
of Wales
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract with the University of Wales for completion of a
research project under the direction of Dr. Anna-Krystyna Korszun. Because Dr. Korszun
is on the faculty of the University of Wales and also is an adjunct assistant professor at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the subcontract are the University of Michigan and the University of Wales.
2.   Under the project, a total subcontract of $61,461 is anticipated to cover the period
February 1, 1999, through July 14, 2001. The University's standard subcontract
provisions will apply.
3.  Dr. Korszun's appointment at the University of Michigan is without compensation.
Establishment of the Department of Emergency Medicine
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of the Department of Emergency Medicine within
the Medical School, effective July 1, 1999.
Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved separation of the Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies
into two centers, known as the Center for South Asian Studies and the Center for
Southeast Asian Studies.
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc.
Vice President and Secretary Tedesco explained the purpose and effect of the
proposed bylaw change, which involves changes in the membership of the board of
directors. On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved changes to the bylaws of the Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc., as
described in the Regents Communication.
New Concentration titled "Bachelor of Science in Earth Science" within
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a new concentration titled "Bachelor of Science in Earth Science"
to be offered by the UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, effective
September 1, 1999.
Establishment of Position of Chief Investment Officer/Appointment of Chief
Investment Officer
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that he had previously announced his
intention to create the position of chief investment officer, which would report directly to
him. He announced that he was recommending with great enthusiasm the appointment of
L. Erik Lundberg as chief investment officer.


83




September Meeting, 1999


Regent Horning moved approval of the position of chief investment officer, as
described in the Regents Communication. Regent Maynard seconded unthe motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Regent Taylor moved approval of the appointment of L. Erik Lundberg as chief
investment officer of the University. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:30 a.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for October 21 and 22, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


84




OCTOBER MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 21, 1999
The Regents convened at 2:45 p.m. in the Michigan Rooms at the Harding Mott
University Center on the campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, and Taylor.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Interim Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President
Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regents Deitch, Newman, and White were absent.
Vice President Feagin and Executive Vice President Omenn were also absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and thanked Chancellor Mestas for
hosting the meeting and the groundbreaking ceremony and luncheon that were held
earlier. He announced that Professor Emeritus Martinus Veltman had been awarded the
Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He noted that Professor Veltman has a deep affection for the
University of Michigan, and that he has returned to campus to participate in events to
celebrate the occasion and honor him.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes for the meeting of
September 16-17, 1999.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment, Plant Extension, Human Relations and Affirmative Action, and
the Regents Report on Noncompetitive Purchases Over $5,000 from Single Sources,
June 16, 1999, through September 15, 1999.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report. Vice
President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects Established for September 1999.
Vice President Tedesco submitted a communication to the board from the Ann
Arbor City Council, thanking the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
for its decision to close down its medical waste incinerator.
Student Affairs. Interim Vice President Harper reported that she would be
sending information to the Regents regarding the University's response to recent
changes in the recommendations by the Centers for Disease Control for inoculations for
bacterial meningitis. She noted that phone lines to nursing staff have been put in place
for students seeking information about the disease and the vaccine.
Dearborn Campus. Interim Chancellor Klein reported that the Dearborn campus
had recently celebrated its 40th anniversary. He also noted that progress is being made
on construction of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Building and that the
Fitness Center is nearing completion. Lastly, he reported that progress is being made
on the search for a new chancellor.


85




October Meeting, 1999


Flint Campus. Chancellor Mestas observed that in the next few months he will
be engaging the Flint campus community in a conversation about future directions, such
as the geographic areas represented by students and the kinds of programs offered.
Voluntary Support. The Report of Voluntary Support was submitted in Vice
President Feagin's absence.
A Friends' Foundation, Orlando, Florida
for the William N. Hubbard, Jr., M.D., Endowed Fund in the Medical School.......... $ 5,000
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
for the Keith E. Alessi Courtyard Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 21,875
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 79,968
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 12,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in the
College of Pharmacy........................................................ 27,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School............................................... 6,563
American Honda Motor Company, Inc., Torrance, California
for scholarships, fellowships, and other student aid at the University of Michigan......... 6,000
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 41,787
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 40,000
Andersen Consulting Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 45,352
Anonymous Donor
for the Library Acquisition Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint............. 30,313
Anonymous Donor
1,412 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 96,854
Anonymous Donor
584 shares of AM South Bancorporation common stock
for student aid  in  the M edical School............................................ 12,812
Rudi Ansbacher, Ann Arbor
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School..................... 5,000
Eric R. Amson, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the M ichigan  Leadershape Institute...........................................  5,000
ASC Holdings LLC, Southgate
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 25,000
Bank of America, Atlanta, Georgia
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,845
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship...............................  55,500
Cynthia Reavis Berkshire, Chicago, Illinois
79 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the Cynthia R. and Alan G. Berkshire Endowed Scholarship in the A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning............................... 5,031
George H. Brown Trust
for the William N. Brown Merit Scholarship in the School of Business Administration...... 6,318
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for scholarships in the School of Public Health.................................... 21,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 77,750
Rosalie Kahn Butzel Trust
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund........................................  6,872
Calcitek, Inc., Carlsbad, California
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry........................... 6,000
Paul B. Campbell, Lakewood, Ohio
200 shares of Firstenergy Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law........................ 5,425


86




October Meeting, 1999


Katherine L. Chamberlain, Mount Pleasant
for support in the School of Nursing............................................  15,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for the Magna International Office of Entrepreneurial Studies Fund in the School
of Business Administration................................................... 25,000
Cole-Belin Education Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the David W. Belin Phi Beta Kappa Merit Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration............................................................  35,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship........................................... 10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Medical School..............................................  51,141
Daikin Clutch Corporation, Belleville
for support in the Medical School...............................................  5,000
Daimler Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 18,005
Daimler Chrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for minority and women scholarships and other support in the School of Business
Administration, and at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................... 24,500
Dale S. Darrow, Columbia, Maryland
for the Darrow Mathematics Graduate Student Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  12,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  5,000
Albin G. Dembowski, Bloomfield, Connecticut
2,981 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Endowment........... 88,586
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  19,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship............................................. 5,000
Robert A. Devries, Battle Creek
for support in  the School of Nursing.............................................  5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the Schools of Art and Design and Business Administration and in the
College  of Engineering....................................................... 21,650
John C. Elam, Columbus, Ohio
145 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  9,729
Elastizell Corporation of America, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Envision, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
for the M ichigan  Leadershape Institute..........................................  10,000
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and C. H. Hsu Endowment in the College of Pharmacy............... 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  90,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Public Policy and
for employee m atching  gifts.................................................. 249,842
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 96,100
Stanley & Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in the School of Business
Administration and for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the
School of Social W ork.......................................................  31,500
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering..................... 6,000
Gerson Geltner, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 600,000


87




October Meeting, 1999


General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the 16th Biennial Conference on Chemical Education in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 5,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for support in the Medical School...............................................  5,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for student aid and the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration..... 60,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Golf Course Restoration Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 40,000
Frank M. Hubbard, Cashiers, North Carolina
for the William N. Hubbard, Jr., M.D., Endowed Fund in the Medical School............ 5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Medical School.............................................  331,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 35,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Intel Foundation Graduate Fellowship in the College of Engineering............ 40,300
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000
Jerome Jacobson, Washington, DC
68 shares of Sun MicroSystems, Inc., common stock
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,344
Gloria F. Jarecki, Rye, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Armen Bersabe Jerejian Foundation, Inc., Paramus, New Jersey
for Armenian Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 5,000
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Lebanon, New Hampshire
9,325 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................  506,273
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and for employee
m atching  gifts.............................................................  191,578
S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Johnson Wax, Racine, Wisconsin
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration.............................................................  10,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  25,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 16,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Schools of Education, Information, Public Health, and Social Work... 1,186,816
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Musical Society............... 50,000
Leslie Kish, Ann Arbor
for research in the Institute for Social Research....................................  5,000
Lisa F. Knight-Giuliani, Matawan, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts................................................. 5,500
L&W Engineering Company, Belleville
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
Patricia A. and William E. La Mothe, Battle Creek
for the William N. Hubbard, Jr., M.D., Endowed Fund in the Medical School........... 10,000
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Art and Design....................................... 10,000
Morton R. Lazar, West Bloomfield
100 shares of Tribune Company and
27 shares of Vodafone Airtouch common stock
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  10,211
John E. Leggat, Westford, Massachusetts
200 shares of Boeing Company common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  8,806


88




October Meeting, 1999


Liberace Foundation, Las Vegas, Nevada
for support in the School of Music.............................................. 10,000
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering Program in the
College of Engineering....................................................... 17,000
Margaret T. Long, Bay Village, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering, in memory of John R. Long................. 5,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Social Work........................................ 200,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 22,000
Joseph L. McEntee, Dallas, Texas
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
1,000 shares of Apple Computer, Inc., and
1,000 shares of Interface Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 84,969
Ella E. McNeil Trust
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................  21,682
Sandra S. Mendal Estate
for the Robin J. Hunter Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for chemical engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering.................... 10,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering and for support in the Information
Technology  D ivision.......................................................  130,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  25,899
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  8,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Social Work and for other support at the University
of  M ichigan............................................................... 465,834
Alberta Muirhead Trust
for the CASL Honors Program/Scholarship Fund, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 20,000
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 89,016
National Semiconductor, Santa Clara, California
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 50,000
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  20,000
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike, Inc., Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike, Inc., Women's
Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............................. 25,000
Richard M. Noel, Champaign, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
O'Connor, DeGrazia & Tamm, P.C., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Keith T. Oldham, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
294 shares of Washington Mutual Investors Fund, Inc., mutual fund
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Professorship in the Medical School................... 10,017
O'Neal Construction, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender....................... 67,879
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................  17,000


89




October Meeting, 1999


Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 22,000
Thomas S. Porter Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 9,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................... 52,791
Ward L. Quaal, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 5,000
Elmer L. R. Radka, Rogers City
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,000
Ralph E. Reins, West Bloomfield
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering.............. 5,200
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmacy, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 5,000
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
for the Margaret A. and John E. Riecker Law Library Endowment in the Law School..... 25,000
David D. Ring, Tiburon, California
for support of the Law  School.................................................  10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 22,755
Mabel E. Rugen Trust
for the Mabel E. Rugen Fund for Health Education in the School of Public Health, and
for Ella E. McNeil Memorial Fund in the School of Nursing......................... 35,823
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 80,000
Michael A. Sakkinen Estate
for the Michael and Joan Sakkinen Endowment and the Michael and Joan Sakkinen
Accounting Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.................... 322,015
Susan F. and Staley D. Schwartz Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
Alva Gordon Sink Trust
for the Charles A. and Alva Gordon Sink Scholarships, Schools of Medicine and Nursing.... 251,652
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................  625,000
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in  the M edical School...............................................  5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and the Institute for Social Research............ 567,084
Michele T. Takei and Edward W. Unkart, Portola Valley, California
650 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 51,513
W. David Tarver, Little Silver, New Jersey
240 shares of Linear Technology Corporation and
120 shares of IBM Corporation common stock
for the Fred and Louise Tarver Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 30,383
A. Alfred Taubman, Bloomfield Hills
for the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning Endowment.... 5,000,000
Helen M. Taylor, Ann Arbor
for the W.K. Kellogg  Eye Center................................................ 5,000
Jack W. Thompson, M.D., Trust
for the Library Acquisition Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint............. 30,313
Deloris I. Tolhurst, Fremont, Ohio
33,660 shares of Boeing Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Deloris I. Tolhurst 1999 Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the M edical School........................................  1,500,000
John C. Tonkin, Daytona Beach, Florida
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Medical School and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 5,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
450 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Richard F. Towner Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering, and for the University Library.................. 44,592


90




October Meeting, 1999


Sinibaldo Tozzo, Grosse Pointe
400 shares of Dell Computer Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School..............................................  19,725
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for employee matching gifts................................................... 42,842
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship....................... 6,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Philadelphia, Narbeerth, Pennsylvania
for the University of Michigan Club of Philadelphia Scholarship....................... 8,000
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 197,847
Herbert H. Waite Trust
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 20,627
Nancy W. Walls, Ann Arbor
for the Nancy W. Walls Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 5,000
Julian H-C Wan, Amherst, New York
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy and for the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 26,460
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of Business
Administration, and for support in the College of Engineering........................ 15,000
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
320 shares of American International Group, Inc., common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr. and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  29,690
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems and the Transition for the
Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment... 150,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall M. Weinberg Distinguished Visiting Professorship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................... 150,000
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Westinghouse Graduate Student Support Fund in the College of Engineering..... 100,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research  in  the School of Dentistry........................................... 79,959
Wilkinson Foundation, Grosse Pointe
for the Nichols Arboretum  Visitor Center........................................  25,000
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..... 10,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Arts of Citizenship Program  Fund.........................................  5,000
George M. Winwood III Estate
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
862 shares of Templeton Growth Fund mutual fund
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................... 17,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
equipment for the College of Engineering
Bruce Hill, Ann Arbor
professional journals for the Department of Statistics
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
software/licenses for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
National Steel Corporation, Trenton
various instruments and related accessories for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department
of Natural Sciences
Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
a painting entitled, "Luxembourg Garden" by Maurice Brazil Prendergast with frame by Charles
Prendergast for the Museum of Art


91




October Meeting, 1999


Paul L. Stewart, Ann Arbor
25 magnesium printing plates for the School of Art and Design
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Martha J. Dalley, Ypsilanti
K&F Electronics, Inc., Fraser
Paul C. Wingert, Farmington
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor highlighted the appointment of Bryan Rogers
as dean of the School of Art and Design. She noted that his background in both
chemical engineering and in art and the breadth of his interests and experience should
position him to be a leader who will help the School of Art and Design to engage in a
wide variety of interdisciplinary activities across campus and beyond.    President
Bollinger commented that the University is committed to developing one of the best art
schools in the country, and he believes that this appointment will be an important step
in achieving that goal.
Regent McGowan congratulated Dean Kenyon of the College of Pharmacy on
increasing Ronald Cresswell's ties to the University by appointing him professor of
medicinal chemistry. She noted that he is one of the most remarkable individuals to
have come to Ann Arbor in many years.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Goodman, Dena., Ph.D. Professor of History and Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Rogers, Bryan., Ph.D., Professor of Art, with tenure, and Dean, School of Art and Design, 5 year term
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Cresswell, Ronald M., Ph.D., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, five year term,
October 1,1999
Mehdian, Seyed M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance, UM-Dearbom School of Management,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Welboume, Theresa M., from Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management to Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, without tenure, School of Business Administration, November 1, 1999
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999
Humes, H. David., Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School


92




October Meeting, 1999


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Glick, Gary D., Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, October 1, 1999
Marinaro, Louis M., Interim Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Art and Design, four month
term
Markel, Howard., Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Martin, David C., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering
Reid, Pamela T., Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Taylor, Jeremy M. G., Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure, Medical School, October 1,
1999
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1-December 31, 2000
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Established Professorships
Chang, Alfred E., Hugh Cabot Professor of Surgery, Medical School, five year term, November 1, 1999
Dower, John W., Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, January 1, 2000
Eckhauser, Frederic E., C. Gardner Child Professor of Surgery, Medical School, five year term,
November 1, 1999
Gikandi, Simon E., Robert Hayden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term, September 1, 1999
Johnson, Timothy M., William B. Taylor Collegiate Professor of Dermatology, Medical School, five year
term, November 1, 1999
McCallum, Donald F., Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, three month term, January 1, 2000
Vlastos, Stephen, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, September 1, 1999
Reappointment to Established Professorship
Humes, H. David, John G. Searle Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1999
Other Transactions
Brown, Linda E., Registrar, UM-Dearbor, also appointed Assistant Vice Chancellor for Enrollment
Management, UM-Dearbor, three year term, November 1, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Art and Design Executive Committee
Ramsay, Theodore K., retroactive from September 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Georgette M. Zirbes,
sabbatical leave
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Johnson, Ethan S., student representative, correction, February 3, 1999-December 31, 2001 (previously
reported through June 30, 1999)
Brophy, David J., retroactive from September 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Robert M. Sellers, sabbatical leave
Stapleton, James F., alumni representative, retroactive from June 3, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Richard D.
Rattner, resigned


93




October Meeting, 1999


Committee on Honorary Degrees
Curin, Matthew S., graduate student representative, correction, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1999 (previously
reported through June 30, 2000
Malde, Sachit, undergraduate student representative, correction, September 1, 1998-August 31, 2000
(previously reported through August 31, 1999)
Smolar, Gregory F., undergraduate student representative, retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001,
vice Matthew S. Curin, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Becchetti, Frederick D., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Bruce Bradley, term expired
Stixrude, Lars P., retroactive from July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Richard D. Woods, term expired
University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Hirshor, Seth I., retroactive from July 1, 1997-August 31, 1999, vice Olga Bonfiglio, resigned
Beyer, Bonnie M., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Seth I. Hirshom, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abbas, Sadia, B.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Ainsworth, Donna S., M.Div., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Amidon, Kevin S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and
Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Anderson, Frank J., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Baliga, Ragavendra R., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Barbon, Maria S., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
1999- May 31, 2000
Baron, Desiree A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Beal, Scott., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Boccaccini, Gabriele, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Early Christianity, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Bolig, Andrew D., B.Sc., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Bradner, Alexandra E., M.A., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Bridges, Daniel M., M.S., Lecturer in Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Brown, Kenneth R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Culture and Lecturer II in Social Sciences,
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Burgos, Fracesco, M.F.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Calloway, Licia M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Canfora, Anselmo G., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Cooley, Melanie, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Coronel-Molina, Serafin M., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Cotel, Aline J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Csengeri, Karen E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999


94




October Meeting, 1999


Daubmann, Karl, M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Davis, Daniel R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Diponio, Lisa A., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, September 1,
1999- June 30, 2001
Durust, Yasar, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Eisenman, David J., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Eissa, Muhammad S., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
El-Ebrashi, Sameh K., M.S., Lecturer in Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry, September 1, 1999 -August 31,2000
Esch, Trudy J., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Eszter, Edgardo G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Fan, Yinshui, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Ferguson, Mark D., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Fluhr, Nicole M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Forrester, Kathleen A., M.S., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Friedman, Stewart D., Ph.D., Clinical Professor II of Leadership and Work/Life Integration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
Friedrich, Juerg P., License, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Garnick, James J., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September 7, 1999 -August 31, 2002
Garrett, Mark E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Gillespie, Richard B., M.M., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
College of Engineering, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Gordon, Jennifer A., B.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Gorokhovsky, Alexander, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Greene, Dana M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Guo, Lingjie J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Hammer, Gary, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Hecker, Douglas A., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Herrero, Alberto A., D.D.S, Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 1999-August 31,
2000
Hildinger, Erik, J.D., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Huang, Grace C., M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, and Lecturer II in Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Hub, Eric, B.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Hussain, Hero K., F.R.C.R., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Hutton, Elizabeth B., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Hyoun, Simon, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Jamieson, Sarah C., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
October 1, 1999-September 30, 2001
Kamen, Michael L., A.M., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1 -December 31, 1999
Kasten, Steven J., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 15, 1999-August 31, 2000


95




October Meeting, 1999


Kennedy, Michael J., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, and Lecturer II in Architecture, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Komisar, June D., M.Arch., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Kopchick, Laura A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Kuhn, Julia H., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Kybartas, Stashu, M.F.A., Lecturer III in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-June 30, 2002
Laughrin, Donna M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Lauri, Mary G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Lehmann, Michael R., M.D., Clinical Professor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2002
Letteri, Mark R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Matthies, Christian, M.M., Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2003
Mauger, Delphine, B.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
McAllister, Carlota P., M.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
McDaniel, Raymond C., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
McLain, Paula J., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Metzl, Jonathan M., M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, and Lecturer II in Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Meyer, Stefan G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Mikaelian, Benedicte, M.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Munoz, Peter, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Naroditskay, Inna, A.M., Lecturer I in Russian, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Nguyen, Bich M., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Noverr, Andrew M., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 1999
O'Leary, Kevin V., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Paglione, Timothy A. D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Palombari, Stefano, Laurea., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Patel, Jignesh M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Pomilio, Mark V., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Rosenfeld, David M., M.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures and Lecturer I in Classical
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Rossman, Carol L., B.S.N., Clinical Instructor II in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Ruffa, Astrid, M.A., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999 -April 30, 2000
Sarment, David P., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 15, 1999 -August 31, 2002
Schreier, Shelly G. Z., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Scull, Laura S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002


96




October Meeting, 1999


Shen, Zheng, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2001
Skinner, Martha L., B.A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Solfrini, Karen, Maitrise., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Solomon, Richard, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
Sparham, Gareth, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Stein, Tamara A., M.A., Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, August 17, 1999 -August 16, 2000
Su, John J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Talata, Istvan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Taylor, Charles L. III., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Thompson, Hilary J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Ungar, Lauren R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Unverzagt, Christian R., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Walter, Nils G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Walters, Julianne M., B.A., Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Wang, Wei, A.B.D., Lecturer II in Chinese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Whitworth, Stephen W., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Widmayer, Anne F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Wilcox, Glenn S., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Wittenberg, Ralf W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Young, Lisa C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2005
Zalupski, Mark M., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 15, 1999-September 14, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Kale, Prashant V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, School of Business Administration
(previously reported as Lecturer in Corporate Strategy)
Nwankwo, Ifeoma C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
(previously reported as Instructor in English Language and Literature and Instructor in
Afroamerican and African Studies)


97




October Meeting, 1999


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Hirth, Richard A., from Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, to Assistant Professor of Health Management and
Policy, School of Public Health, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 1999-July 31, 2000
Lederman, Robert J., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Radiology to Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Nagar, Venkatesh K., from Lecturer in Accounting to Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Pollack, Eileen K., from Lecturer III in English Language and Literature to Assistant Professor of
English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May
31, 2002
Seitzer, Patrick D., from Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Wong, Jeffrey H., from Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical
School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Wysocki, Peter D., from Lecturer in Accounting to Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Zheng, Lu, from Lecturer in Finance to Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Christensen, A. K., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, January 1 -April 30, 2000
Edwards, Alfred L., Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Hawkins, Joseph E., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, September 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Jackson, Murray E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, appointed to
First-Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Komblum, Sylvan, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, and
Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed to the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-November 30, 2000
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information, appointed to First-Year Seminars,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Patterson, Willis C., Professor Emeritus of Music, School of Music, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Santinga, John, Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 1, 1999 -February 28, 2000
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, appointed to
Technical Communication, College of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 1999
Steinhoff, William, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Whitehouse, Frank, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, Medical School, appointed to
First-Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999


98




October Meeting, 1999


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Richard D., Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University Professor of Evolutionary
Biology, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, Museum of Zoology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2000
Atreya, Arvind, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Bemet, Spencer L., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Brake, Mary L., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, outside teaching leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Bums, Nancy E., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Cooper, Edward H., Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Croley, Steven P., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1999
DeCamp, Mark R., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Devlin, John F., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
Dworkin, Steven N., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, Professor of Romance Linguistics, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Ege, Seyhan N., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2000
Fomin, Sergey, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Franzese, Robert J., Jr., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Green, Thomas A., John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Huesmann, L. Rowell., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 1999, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Ikuma, Hiroshi, Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Imperiale, Michael J., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July
1-December 31, 1999
Kamisar, Yale, Clarence Darrow Distinguished University Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Keller-Cohen, Deborah, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Kollman, Kenneth W., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Kollmann, Judith J., Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Meadows, Guy A., Associate Professor of Physical Oceanography, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Oceanograpny, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Meyerhoff, Mark E., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Moore, Thomas E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, Museum of Zoology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2000
Morton, Harrison L., Professor of Forest Pathology and Associate Dean, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, retirement furlough, November 1, 1999-October 31, 2000
Nussbaum, Ronald A., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator of Reptiles and Amphibians, Museum
of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000


99




October Meeting, 1999


O'Connor, Barry M., Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, Museum of
Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 25-October 25, 1999
Riebesell, John F., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Rosenberg, Victor, Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Rosenthal, Judy V., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Sandalow, Terrance, Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2000
Sherman, James H., Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough
(phased), September 1, 1999-December 31, 2000
Silverman, Ronald E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Psychology,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Strawderman, Robert L., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Swales, John M., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Szabo, Zoltan, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Teichroew, Daniel, Professor of Industrial Engineering, College of Engineering, retirement furlough
(phased), September 1, 1999-December 31, 2000
Uhler, Michael D., Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1999-February 29, 2000
Volling, Brenda L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Adams, Paul T., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 8, 1999
Dawson, David C., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, September 2, 1999
De La Parra, Carlos, Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, April 30, 1999
Everson, Stephen D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Farrell, Michael H., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Harabetian, Eduard, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 1999
Hobbs, Raymond, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Kapteyn, Henry C., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, June 30, 1999
Nasreddine, Wassim M., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, September 30, 1999
Schroeder, Michael J., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31,
1999
Watkins, Paul B., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Pharmacology, without
tenure, Medical School, July 31, 1999
Term Completed
Apakupakul, Kathleen, Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Faudman, Rita B., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, August 31, 1999
Fischer, Philippe, Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Hellquist, Carl E., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Morgan, Stephanie M., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Nelson, Marcia M., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Reznick, Joseph, Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Rier, Steven T., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Wahtera, Kirk A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Transition at University Audits. Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that
Carl R. Smith had stepped aside as director of University Audits as of October 1, 1999.


100




October Meeting, 1999


The title of this position will be changed to executive director of university audits, in
keeping with the heightened importance of the monitoring and reduction of risk at the
University. Robert Moenart has assumed the position of interim director, and the search
for the permanent executive director has begun.
Retirement memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memoir for one
retiring faculty member.
Robert W. Haessler, Ph.D., associate professor of operations management in the
School of Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on August 31,
1999.
Professor Haessler received his B.S.E., M.S.E., M.B.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1962, 1963, 1964, and 1968, respectively. Upon completion
of his Ph.D., he worked in private industry for several years before joining the faculty at
Wright State University in 1971. He joined the University of Michigan as a visiting
associate professor in 1975 and was promoted to associate professor in 1976.
A very dedicated researcher and teacher, Professor Haessler recognized early the
importance and impact of computer-based technologies on improving production
productivity and managerial decision-making. This focus, combined with his research
on manufacturing control systems, led to his work as co-director of the ongoing Sloan
Trucking Industry Program, a sponsored research project shared with the College of
Engineering. Professor Haessler has also been involved with the Tauber Manufacturing
Institute, a joint program of the School of Business Administration and College of
Engineering.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert W. Haessler
associate professor emeritus of operations management.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted recommendations for approval of final degree
lists for the August 1999 commencements, as well as changes to previously approved
degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Taylor, the Consent Agenda was unanimously approved.
Vice President Ulaby announced that the University of Michigan had been
notified by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy that the
Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP) had received a Presidential
Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring for 1999,
one of five such awards given nationwide. This award, administered by the National
Science Foundation, is a vehicle for the president to honor institutions and individuals
that had been exemplary in encouraging minorities, women, and persons with
disabilities to pursue careers in scientific, engineering, and technical fields. He noted
that this year nearly 1,000 students and more than 500 faculty at the University are
involved in mentoring partnerships through this program.


101




October Meeting, 1999


Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby gave a presentation on the career of James G. Blight, senior
research fellow and professor of international relations at Brown University, who is a
Flint native and an alumnus of the University of Michigan-Flint.
A five-minute break followed, from 3:05 to 3:10 p.m., after which regular agenda
items were taken.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a summary of alternative asset
commitments recently made to follow-on funds of previously approved partnerships.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to J. H. Whitney IV, L.P., pending favorable review of the legal documents by the
Office of the General Counsel. Executive Vice President Kasdin disclosed that he had
made a personal investment in a prior Whitney fund shortly after arriving at the
University after the University had declined an earlier offer to invest in it.
Replacement of Tunnel and Associated Utilities located under State Street near the
Michigan Union
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that portions of State Street will have to be
shut down for short periods of time to complete this project. University officials are
working with city officials to minimize the inconvenience to the community.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the project for replacement of the tunnel and associated utilities
located under State Street near the Michigan Union, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Display Technology and Manufacturing Building Renovations for Functional
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) Laboratory
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that creation of the fMRI laboratory,
which will be dedicated to basic research studies of cognitive processes, is an important
academic initiative to promote large-scale development of research in the life sciences.
Provost Cantor noted that both fMRI and PET scans visualize blood flow in the brain, but
the former are nonintrusive and result in a much sharper image. She pointed out that the
fMRI technology has revolutionized cognitive psychology. This project will involve an
interdisciplinary collaboration with the College of Engineering, Medical School, and the
Department of Psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved initiating the design of the proposed Functional Magnetic
Resonance Imaging Laboratory in the Display Technology and Manufacturing Building
and appointing Ann Arbor Architects Collaborative as the architect.


102




October Meeting, 1999


New Degree Program for A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning
Provost Cantor reported that the proposed "Master of Urban Design" program,
which will take advantage of the University's proximity to Detroit, will begin as a
relatively small program but is expected to become popular and grow, as there are
currently no other comparable programs in the Midwest.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the "Master of Urban Design" program to be offered in the A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.
Revision to Regents' Bylaw 3.07
Executive Vice President Kasdin explained that the delegation of signature
authority proposed in this bylaw revision refers to the execution of sponsored research
proposals, not contracts. The purpose is to streamline the review and signature process
and enhance the quality of the research proposal review process. Substantive changes
are in subsection 2 (b).
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision to Regents' Bylaw 3.07. The revised bylaw follows:
Bylaw Sec. 3.07.  Approval and Execution of University Documents
1.   All transactions involving the purchase, sale, or other disposition of real property shall
be first approved and authorized by the Board. Unless otherwise specifically provided
by the Board, all land contracts and deeds conveying University property shall be
executed by the president and the executive vice president and chief financial officer.
a.   All sales of donated or bequeathed real estate located outside the Ann Arbor,
Dearborn, or Flint campus areas regardless of the sales price; real estate that funds
a Unitrust for any amount or location; and bequeathed or devised real property
requiring action by an estate executor, personal representative or a trustee may be
approved and authorized by the executive vice president and chief financial
officer. The resulting land contracts and deeds shall be executed by both the
president and the executive vice president and chief financial officer. These
transactions will be reported to the Regents in an Item of Information.
b.   Any sale authorized by the executive vice president and chief financial officer
must equal or exceed the appraised value except for fractional interest estate
properties. For those properties held in an estate in which the University's interest
is fractional, the University will cooperate with the estate's legally appointed
representative regarding terms and appraisal requirements to accomplish a sale.
2.   Transactions involving personal property shall be approved and executed as follows:
a.   The investment or reinvestment of gift, trust, agency, and deposit funds, the
purchase and sale of personal property acquired in connection with the investment
or reinvestment of such funds, and the approval of real estate mortgages may be
made by any two of the following officers: the president, the executive vice
president and chief financial officer, the associate vice president for finance, the
controller, and the treasurer and investment officer. Any two of the said officers are
hereby authorized and empowered to execute and deliver the documents necessary
to complete the sale of any stocks, bonds, evidences of indebtedness or other
securities, including rights and options to acquire or sell the same owned or held by
the Regents of the University of Michigan. The transfer of any such securities by


103




October Meeting, 1999


the officers herein authorized shall be sufficient to convey ownership to the
transferee.
b.    All contracts for sponsored research and supplements thereto, including
agreements for fellowships, scholarships, and grants-in-aid, and all contracts
covering payment for tuition and supplies may be executed by the executive vice
president and chief financial officer. The executive vice president's signature shall
be certified by the vice president and secretary where such certification is
requested. Where the commitments fall within the normal activities of the
University, the executive vice president and chief financial officer is authorized to
delegate in writing to designated representatives authority to execute:
(i)  All such contracts described in this subsection (b) where the amount
involved is less than $750,000;
(ii)  Training grants and/or fellowship program awards where the amount does
not exceed a rate of $250,000 per year; and
(iii) Applications for grants and contracts.
c.   All discharges of mortgages and cancellations of land contracts may be executed
by any two of the following officers: the president, the executive vice president
and chief financial officer, the vice president and secretary, the associate vice
president for finance, the controller, and the treasurer and investment officer.
d.   All routine contracts for the purchase, sale or loan of supplies or equipment within
authorized budgets may be executed by the executive vice president and chief
financial officer, provided, however, that the executive vice president and chief
financial officer is authorized to delegate in writing to the vice president and
secretary, the associate vice president for finance, the associate vice president for
business operations, [or] the purchasing agent, or other designated representatives
authority to execute such contracts.
3.    In case the president is absent or for any reason is unable to execute documents requiring
the president's signature, then they shall be executed on the president's behalf by the
executive vice president and chief financial officer. In the event the executive vice
president and chief financial officer acts on behalf of the president or in the event of the
absence or inability to act of the executive vice president and chief financial officer, then
the associate vice president for finance, the controller, or the vice president and secretary
may execute such documents.
4.   All other documents involving real or personal property transactions and vendor service
contracts shall be executed by the executive vice president and chief financial officer;
provided, however, that the executive vice president and chief financial officer may
delegate in writing to the vice president and secretary, the associate vice president for
finance, or other designated representatives authority to execute such documents.
A 25-minute recess followed, from 3:20 until 3:45 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Thomas Hahn, former chief steward of
AFSCME Local 1583, and Glenn Ford, current chief steward for AFSCME Local 1583,
regarding labor relations and the grievance investigation process.
The meeting was recessed at 3:50 p.m. until the following day.


104




October Meeting, 1999


Friday, October 22, 1999
The Regents convened at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White
and Executive Vice President Omenn were absent.
Resolution in honor of Martinus J. G. Veltman
Regent McGowan called to the podium Professor Emeritus Martinus J. G. Veltman,
and expressed that this resolution "comes to you with the admiration, the awe, and the
affection of the people of this University."
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud and congratulate
Martinus J. G. Veltman, the John D. MacArthur Professor Emeritus of
Physics, on winning the Nobel Prize for physics. Dr. Veltman and his
colleague and former student Gerardus 't Hooft are being recognized by the
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences for their definitive contributions to
advances in theoretical physics.
Dr. Veltman developed the theories necessary for physicists to
mathematically predict properties of the subatomic particles that comprise
all matter in the universe and the forces that hold the particles together. In
so doing, he has provided the framework for some of modern physics' most
heralded discoveries, including the 1995 discovery of the "top" quark.
Dr. Veltman brings a profound respect for reality, considerable
intellect, and curiosity to a field so abstract it is difficult for friends, family
and even colleagues to imagine, let alone comprehend. In devoting his life to
asking and answering questions about the universe and how it works, Dr.
Veltman continues in the tradition of such great physicists and cosmologists
as Isaac Newton, James Clerk Maxwell, and Albert Einstein.
The Regents express admiration and deep appreciation to Dr. Veltman for
his many contributions to science and to the University's intellectual and
cultural life, and laud the accomplishments of Professor Emeritus Martinus J G.
Veltman, the first University of Michigan faculty member to win a Nobel Prize.
A standing ovation followed.
Professor Emeritus Veltman stated that he is overwhelmed by what has happened
to him since winning the Nobel Prize. He said that nothing in life can compare with the
experience of moving into unchartered territory, arriving where no one has ever been,
discovering something new, making a guess about it, and having it work out. He
thanked the Regents and administration for "creating a university in which it is a
pleasure to work."
Another standing ovation followed.


105




October Meeting, 1999


Y2K Preparedness
President Bollinger called on Jose-Marie Griffiths, University chief information
officer and executive director of the Information Technology Division. Dr. Griffiths
reported that over the past few months, significant progress has been made in readying
the University for the Y2K rollover. Among the activities that have taken place are
continued remediation and testing, the development of business continuity and contingency
plans, quality assurance activities, and a series of communications activities. Testing has
been completed on all legacy mainframe administrative systems, and the Medical Center
has completed quality assurance testing of its patient care data system. Payroll systems and
student systems have also been tested.
Extensive campus-wide communication has occurred through a variety of means.
Dr. Griffiths reviewed the Y2K priorities that have been set by the executive officers,
and noted that people throughout the University have prepared business continuity and
contingency plans with these priorities in mind. Quality assurance activities are currently
underway, including review of twelve units' contingency plans by the risk management
office.
Dr. Griffiths reported that a Y2K Communications and Event Management
Response Team has been identified, and a campus-wide Y2K Response and
Communication Center has been established that will operate during the rollover period.
A core team of key decision makers is being trained, decision-making authority and
responsibility of each command center participant is being identified, and additional
needed staffing needs are being assessed. A full simulated dress rehearsal will be held in
early December. She acknowledged Bill Bess, director of the Department of Public
Safety, and James Snyder, professor of architecture and urban planning, for sharing
their expertise in large-scale emergency management operations.
A communications plan has also been produced, and various communities who
have different kinds of communications needs during the rollover period are being
identified. Key messages are being prepared for dissemination before, during, and after
the rollover.
Dr. Griffiths emphasized that at every point the planners have worked to augment
and build upon existing failure response systems. The majority of the effort has involved
finding and fixing deficits and integrating the different systems into a comprehensive,
holistic system.
She reported that the University of Michigan has played a leadership role both
statewide and nationally in Y2K activities. Through the Michigan Community Outreach
program, Y2K training programs have been provided to community leaders throughout
the state. University officials were invited to participate in the U.S. President's Council
on Year 2000 Conversion Roundtable and the University of Michigan is one of only 20
higher education institutions on the U.S. Department of Education's "Honor Roll." The
University's materials for Y2K training have been sent by the U.S. Department of
Education to several thousand post secondary institutionand y s across the United States.
Finally, the University has been cited by the Gartner Group as a "great example" of
"effective, comprehensive Y2K testing, remediation, and contingency planning."


106




October Meeting, 1999


Dr. Griffiths reported that UM-based Y2K problems are not expected. If there are
externally-based Y2K problems, the contingency plans will operate. As a result of Y2K
preparations, the University will have gained an updated, campus-wide comprehensive
emergency preparedness and disaster recovery system.
Regarding the nuclear reactor, Dr. Griffiths noted that it will be powered-down to
a minimal level of operation during the rollover period, as it does not require power to
remain safe.
Announcements
In the area of faculty accomplishments, President Bollinger announced that four
University of Michigan medical researchers have been named to the Institute of Medicine:
David Ginsburg, Julian T. Hoff, James S. House, and Michael Marletta. He also noted
that "A View From the Bridge," composed by Professor William Bolcom, had
premiered on October 9 at the Lyric Opera of Chicago and had received enthusiastic
reviews.
He noted that WUOM ("Michigan Radio") has been named "Best in the Nation" in its
market category by the Public Radio Program Directors Association, and that the School of
Public Health has been named the national program office of a community-based project
funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation designed to improve the quality of life for
children with asthma.
He also highlighted the identification of genes linked to an aggressive form of
breast cancer by University of Michigan researchers and commented on the deaths of a
number of emeritus faculty members.
University of Michigan Financial Report and Year-End Financial Information for
the Year Ended June 30, 1999
Executive Vice President Kasdin called attention to The University of Michigan
Year-End Financial Information for Fiscal Year 1998-99 ("ivory book") which had
been distributed at the meeting.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Management Report with University Responses
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that this is the first year of the engagement
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as its external accounting firm. The thoroughness of
the audit, and the fact that the auditing firm was new to the University following a
twelve-year engagement by the previous firm, has given him even greater confidence
that the University is in excellent and secure financial position. He introduced Jack
McCarthy, executive partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on this engagement.
Mr. McCarthy observed that the high quality of the University's initiatives in
implementing the PeopleSoft system, the increased emphasis on investment
performance, the review of business processes, and financial management practices are
equivalent to what is being done among the University's leading peer institutions, both
public and private, across the country. He introduced several of the partners involved in
the audit: Bill Gehrke, Don Christian, George Johnson, Cheryl Soper, and Darrell
Burks.


107




October Meeting, 1999


Mr. Burks reviewed the material handed out at the meeting. He observed that the
audits were conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which
require that the audits be planned and performed to obtain reasonable assurance of
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. He reported, "We
believe that the University's financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of the University." He also said that the audits examined the
internal control structure of the University and noted that the internal control structure
is strong, with no material deficiencies.
Mr. Burks then reviewed the required communications set out in the Statement on
Auditing Standards No. 61. These include "significant new accounting policies and
unusual transactions," "management judgments and accounting estimates," "significant
audit adjustments," "disagreements with the administration," "consultation with other
accountants," "major issues discussed with management prior to retention," "difficulties
encountered in performing the audit," and "other information in documents containing
audited financial statements." He noted that separate reports were prepared for the
combined activities of the University of Michigan and its sub-units: the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, the Executive Education Center, the Hospitals and
Health Centers, Veritas, and Michigan Health Corporation.  Separate unqualified
reports were issued for the Alumni Association, William Davidson Institute, and the
University Musical Society. Audits are currently in process for the Schedule of Federal
Financial Assistance for the year ended June 30, 1999; the financial statements of
M-Care for the year ended December 31, 1999; and the annual agreed-upon procedures
of the NCAA intercollegiate athletic program and athletic booster information.
Mr. Burks noted that audit observations and recommendations have been included
in the management letter.
Regent Deitch observed that "great compliments are due to everyone involved in this
effort." To have a seamless transition while changing financial accounting systems is, he
said, "an astoundingly excellent accomplishment." He also pointed out that public
accountants are required to report the least aberrations, and to have an unqualified report is
a great compliment to Executive Vice President Kasdin and the University's financial staff.
Executive Vice President Kasdin thanked Regent Deitch and noted that the
compliments paid to staff are very meaningful. Executive Vice President Kasdin said
that he would be reporting back at the March meeting with progress on each comment
made in the management letter.
University of Michigan Financial Report
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that this year responsibility for this
report had been switched from the chief financial officer to the Office of Development.
He noted that it is an important communication device both to financial professionals
and to the community at large and alumni, and he complimented Vice President Feagin
and the development staff for the results of their efforts.


108




October Meeting, 1999


Annual Report of Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the annual report of investments had
traditionally been given in the spring, but the decision was made to change the timing to
the fall. Thus, the last report was given 18 months ago.
He introduced Erik Lundberg, chief investment officer, and Elizabeth Hokada,
director of investments.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that as of June 30, 1999, the University
had $4.1 billion in financial assets, with $2.5 billion in the endowment funds and almost
$1.2 billion in the University Investment Pool. The remainder of the assets is invested
in Veritas ($159.8 million), M-Care ($61.0 million), charitable remainder trusts ($63.6
million), Donor Pooled Income Fund ($10.0 million), the Business School Growth Fund
($2.2 million), and in bond, construction, and other funds ($127.6 million).
He noted that the Long Term Portfolio has a market value of $2.95 billion, and
noted that it is comprised of the endowment funds (85 percent); the University
Investment Pool (13 percent); Veritas (2 percent); and M-Care (less than 1 percent).
Executive Vice President Kasdin reviewed the strategic decisions made by the
Board of Regents in past years that serve as guidelines for management of the
University's investments.  One of these decisions is to use external investment
management (November 1986); as a result of this decision, essentially all University
assets are currently invested by external professional managers.  Executive Vice
President Kasdin indicated that this will continue to be the case with the ithiring of Mr.
Lundberg as chief investment officer.
Executive Vice President Kasdin next pointed to Regental directives for
maximizing the return on investments over long term time horizons by maintaining an
equity orientation, with up to 85 percent of the portfolio in equities (November 1986,
June 1989, and September 1994). In recent years, 80 percent of the portfolio has been
invested in equities and assets that will behave like equities.
Another important Regental directive has been to insulate University operations
from volatility (November 1986 and June 1995). A rule was established stating that 5
percent of the endowment funds would be used each year to support operations, based on
a 12-quarter average to reduce volatility. He noted that as a nonprofit institution, the
University is considered a "total return" investor, which gives it a great degree of
flexibility.
The final strategic decision made by the Board of Regents was the commitment to
invest up to 25 percent of the portfolio in alternative assets (June 1989 and September
1994). He noted that one of the important contributors to investment performance in
the fourth quarter of 1999 was the venture capital portfolio that the Board of Regents
has been building throughout the decade.
Executive Vice President Kasdin displayed a chart illustrating the asset allocation
of the Long Term Portfolio, which contains $2.95 billion of the University's total of
$4.1 billion in invested funds. The asset allocation includes 43 percent in market-traded


109




October Meeting, 1999


equities (29 percent domestic and 14 percent international); 22 percent in alternative
assets, which can be considered as an additional exposure to the domestic equity
market; 3 percent in REITs (Real Estate Investment Trusts); 15 percent in fixed income;
7 percent in cash equivalents; and 10 percent in absolute return investments. The basic
philosophy is identification of the core asset classes which over time will produce
superior returns.
Regent McGowan asked for an explanation of the absolute return investments and
whether they are the equivalent of hedge funds. Executive Vice President Kasdin
responded that "absolute returns" are a generic term given to a wide variety of
investment vehicles that have certain things in common. They are structured as limited
partnerships, investing as liquid assets. The investors get either quarterly or annual
withdrawal rights, so that these funds are not illiquid in the same fashion as alternative
assets in which funds cannot be withdrawn for 5-7 years. Finally, they are focused to
attain positive investment performance irrespective of broader market conditions.
Regent McGowan noted that "hedge funds" are comprised of derivatives, equities,
venture capital funds, and other similar instruments, and asked why are they not
considered to be alternative assets.
Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that the differences between absolute
return managers and alternative asset managers are that absolute return managers offer
liquidity on a periodic, regular basis. Moreover, they are assets that are supposed to
have low correlation to markets, whereas private equity/venture capital merely gives the
illusion of low correlation because in down markets they are carried at cost.
Regent McGowan asked for more clarity with regard to classification of
alternative assets, and also asked about the size of the University's investment in hedge
funds. Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that there is 10 percent in a variety
of absolute return managers. Regent McGowan asked to be provided with a list of the
University's actual investments in the absolute return category, including what each of
the funds is investing in and the names of the managers. At the suggestion of Regent
Maynard, it was decided to provide such a list for the entire array of the University's
investments.
Executive Vice President Kasdin continued that the market value of alternative
assets is $757.7 million, divided among venture capital (34 percent); real estate (25
percent); private equity (18 percent); energy (15 percent); and distressed debt (8
percent). He described the asset allocations for the University Investment Pool (UIP),
Veritas, and M-Care funds.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that he plans to reconstitute the
Investment Advisory Committee now that Mr. Lundberg has arrived and emphasized
that the University will continue to focus on ensuring use of the best managers and
understanding the risks of exposure for University funds. Finally, he said that Mr.
Lundberg will be developing a set of priorities for the Board's consideration over the
coming months.
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Lila Hunnewell, from Cambridge
Associates, the University's investment advisor. Ms. Hunnewell observed that the


110




October Meeting, 1999


University of Michigan, like other nonprofit, has a long-term investment horizon, with
an investment objective of having an inflation-adjusted total return, net-of-fees, greater
than its spending rate. The University has chosen to achieve this objective through
diversification; the question becomes one of degree of diversification.
Since the last report, she said that the first theme had been to reduce the level of
diversification but maintain concentrated value-added strategies in the diversifying
asset classes. She noted that since December 31, 1997, there has been a change in the
diversifying asset classes to position the portfolio so that it maintains the level of
diversification it needs and not have a volatile spending stream, and to reduce the risks
in the portfolio. Within the diversifying allocations, the goal is to focus on managers
who can add value either through their skills or their practice of operating in segments
of the market where inefficiencies can be taken advantage of. To this end, she noted
that the following categories were pared back: small capitalization equities, emerging
international, sector funds, real estate, and energy stocks.
The second theme was to focus on the asset classes that can add value, such as
venture capital, private equity, multi-strategy absolute return managers, and long-short
equity managers. Regent McGowan asked whether hedge funds were governed as to
what financial instruments they could include. Ms. Hunnewell replied that the types of
investments the funds make are determined by their partnership agreements which set
out the areas of focus for the partnerships and typically they are very broadly defined.
The types of long-short stock pickers that the University has chosen indicate in their
documents that they do not and will not do macro-trading. Ms. Hunnewell emphasized
that the University staff practices vigorous due diligence with managers, and this is
critical to all of these asset classes.
Ms. Hunnewell noted that exposure to commodities has been eliminated, which is
consistent with the decision to focus on areas where managers' skills can add value.
Fixed income exposure has been reduced from 20.9 percent to 15.2 percent.
The 13.5 percent return for the Long Term Portfolio was in the top quartile of 282
other endowed institutions. This was driven by the 141 percent return on the venture
capital portfolio, strong performance by the international equity managers, and by the
multi-strategy absolute return managers. Ms. Hunnewell observed that when the
venture capital returns are placed in context, they are extraordinary. This year's
average venture capital return among the institutions tracked by Cambridge Associates
was about 80 percent. The University's high quality portfolio provided a much greater
return, which she attributed to the importance of manager skill.
Over the coming year, goals include finalizing the strategy portfolio; reviewing the
marketable side of the portfolio, including evaluation of domestic and global managers
from both an asset allocation and manager structure perspective; and continuing to build
relationships with the highest quality venture capital, private equity, and absolute
return/long-short hedge fund managers.


111




October Meeting, 1999


Institute of Science and Technology (IST) High Bay Building Addition
Stephen Director, dean of the College of Engineering, reported that the proposed
new building will house the Department of Biomedical Engineering and will allow for
expansion of the Center for Ultrafast Optical Science (CUOS). He noted that the
project is the beginning of an evolving plan to create a locus of activity in biomedical
engineering on North Campus, and that it will contribute to the Life Sciences Initiative.
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Robert Powell, of Jickling, Lyman
and Powell Associates, Inc., to present plans for the building's design. Mr. Powell
displayed site maps, photographs, schematic designs of the interior, and a drawing of
the exterior. He also described the exterior treatment and displayed samples of the
materials to be used on the exterior. He noted that the current IST complex consists of
three buildings; at the completion of this project, it will become two buildings.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the design of the IST High Bay Building
Addition, and authorization for issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction
contract providing that bids are within the approved budget. Regent Horning seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Mason Hall and Haven Hall Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Mr. Steven L. Einhorn, of Einhorn
Yaffee Prescott, Architecture & Engineering, P.C. He noted that this firm is involved in
important restoration work throughout the U.S. and around the world.
Mr. Einhorn said that he would present issues regarding the exterior of the
building, and his partner, Mr. Thomas Birdsey, would comment on some of the
functional planning issues.
Mr. Einhorn noted that the challenge was to develop an exterior skin for the
addition and renovation that recalls some of the old buildings on campus but also
embraces the future. He displayed photographs of existing buildings and illustrated
how their outstanding features will be woven into the new facade. He displayed
renderings of the exterior treatment from a number of elevations.
Mr. Birdsey reviewed some of the planning ideas being incorporated into the
interior renovation, displaying diagrams of the ground floor plan for Haven Hall and for
a typical upper floor. He noted that the plans call for the introduction of a great deal of
natural light into the building.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that state capital outlay funds earmarked
for infrastructure repair will be used for this building, so the project also includes
restoration and replacement of the infrastructure in both Mason Hall and Haven Hall.
Regent Deitch asked whether the project also includes any aesthetic improvements
to Mason Hall. Mr. Einhorn noted that the infrastructure improvements will enhance
Mason Hall. President Bollinger commented that in his opinion, the improvements
being made to Haven Hall do not need to be derived from features of Mason Hall,
because the goal would be to eventually replace Mason Hall.


112




October Meeting, 1999


Regent Horning observed that the cost per square foot for this project appears to
be nearly double the cost for the IST High Bay Addition project. Executive Vice
President Kasdin responded that the reason for this perception is that the actual
renovation and infrastructure improvement portion of the project represents a
significant part of the cost of the Mason Hall and Haven Hall project. The $38 million
project cost should be applied not to the 67,000 square foot addition, but to the entire
project, which consists of 213,000 square feet. This will yield a cost per square foot
equivalent to or less than other projects.
Regent Brandon commented that it would be helpful if in the future, project
descriptions could contain information about the cost per square foot for both new
construction and renovation. Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that this will
be done.
Regarding the exterior of the renovation, Mr. Einhorn commented that mockups of
several different options will be constructed so that an informed decision can be made.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised scope of the Mason Hall and Haven Hall Renovation
Project and the design of the project as presented by Einhorn Yaffee Prescott,
Architecture & Engineering, P.C. Regent Newman was absent when the vote was taken.
Michigan Student Assembly Monthly Report
Mr. Bram Elias, president of Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), distributed a
document describing the work of MSA. He gave an overview of the structure of MSA
and described the projects MSA is working on this year, noting that much of the work
of MSA   is conducted by commissions and committees.   He emphasized that
commissions are the vehicle for administrators and Regents to obtain information about
specific issues, and he urged them to contact the commission chairs directly when they
have questions. He noted that MSA would be reporting on funding for club sports at
the November meeting and on civic activism on campus at the December meeting.
Mr. Elias commented that MSA would take advantage of the opportunities for
discussion with the Regents on a monthly basis. Their objectives in these reports will be
to build institutional momentum for specific projects; to seek Regental and executive
officer input and advice; to let the Regents know what students think about the direction
of the institution; and to affect institutional policy. He said that he welcomes input as to
how best to present the monthly reports and to work with Regents and the
administration.
In response to a question from Regent Maynard, Mr. Elias gave background
information about activities of the Peace and Justice Commission that had recently been
described in the Michigan Daily. He said that the issues were structural, rather than
political, and that in the future, the work of this committee will be vetted through MSA
prior to issues being raised publicly and independently by the group. This is due to
MSA's philosophy that it has an obligation to represent all students and to ensure that
the actions of commissions it empowers are in the interest of the entire student body,
rather than those who hold particular political views.


113




October Meeting, 1999


Motion to Meet in Nonformal Session
Regent Taylor moved adjournment of the formal session of the Board of Regents
and commencement of a nonformal session, the purpose of which is to consider a
personnel evaluation. Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
The meeting then continued in nonformal session until 12:30 p.m.
The next meeting is scheduled for November 18-19, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


114




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 18, 1999
The Regents convened at 2:00 p.m. in the Kuenzel Room of the Michigan Union.
Present were President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, McGowan,
Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin,
Interim Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor
Klein, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice
President Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Maynard was absent.
Naming of Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and introduced former United States
President Gerald R. Ford and Dean Rebecca Blank. He announced that this is a historic
occasion, in which the School of Public Policy will be named the Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy.
President Bollinger stated that President Ford has a deep personal connection to
the University of Michigan, dating to his days as a student in the 1930s, when he
enjoyed a distinguished career as both a student and an athlete. When he left the
University, he pursued a career in public service; while serving in Congress in the
1960s, he made a decision to leave his papers to the University of Michigan. The
Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library is now located on campus.
President Bollinger noted that President Ford has made many visits to the
University, and he chaired the successful capital campaign in the 1980s. More than any
other public figure, President Ford's actions during his presidency have exuded the
"cunning middle ground," as described by the poet, Seamus Heaney. This is exactly the
kind of person the University desires to hold up to its students as they think about
public policy and public service.
President Bollinger pointed out that the naming of the school also provides an
opportunity to build a closer connection with the Ford Library and Ford Museum in
Grand Rapids. He noted that volumes of documents related to the last days of the
Vietnam War are currently being reviewed and declassified and will be released for the
first time within the next several months. The School of Public Policy and the Ford
Library, he noted, are planning to hold a major conference in April 2000 on the close of
the Vietnam War and the effect of this event on the life and character of the country
since then. A celebration to commemorate the naming of the School of Public Policy
for President Ford will be held in Fall 2000.
Dean Blank observed that the naming opportunity comes at a good time for the
School of Public Policy, as it is the newest and smallest school at the University and is
seeking to expand. She described the school's current programs, noting that the
master's program attracts first rate students and faculty. Among the issues to be
addressed in expanding are determining the appropriate undergraduate components for
the school; revamping the Ph.D. program; creating closer connections with other


115




November Meeting, 1999


schools and colleges; creating closer connections and greater visibility in the world of
policy and practice; and moving into new space in Lorch Hall.
With such a full agenda, she commented that it is the right time to take a new
name, and there are a number of reasons why the name of Gerald R. Ford is so
appropriate. It creates visibility and identity for the school and it associates the school
with a man whose own career is a hallmark of commitment to public service. Gerald R.
Ford symbolizes the most desirable things students should learn: a commitment to the
common good and to the effective design and implementation of policy. The event held
to commemorate the naming will also provide an opportunity to kick off a major
fundraising campaign to help build an endowment for the school. Dean Blank
concluded that she was honored and excited about the prospect of becoming dean of the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. "President Ford honors us by giving us his
name," she noted, "and I very much hope that over time we will in turn honor him
through the excellence of our programs and through the commitment of our faculty and
students to promote and analyze effective public policies."
Regent Deitch commented that "This is a wonderful moment for the University of
Michigan." He noted that the goal of the School of Public Policy is to train new
generations of people who can make a difference in the critical issues that will face us,
and that under the leadership of Dean Blank and with the name of a former president of
the United States, the school will grow in influence in the coming years. He said it is
very fitting to name the school after one of the University's most distinguished alumni,
who has spent his life in the service of our country. Noting that President Ford's
generation has been described as a "generation of giants," Regent Deitch observed that
President Ford "is a giant of that generation." Regent Deitch thanked President Ford
"for upholding our republic in a moment of great stress," continuing that "All
Americans are forever in your debt."
Regent Newman observed that she was a student at the University when President
Ford became an adjunct professor. She recalled the high level of excitement that was
engendered by his presence and by the realization that a former University of Michigan
student had become president of the United States, "which allowed us to only imagine
what we could become." She reviewed the historical events, culminating in the
resignation of President Nixon, that led to Mr. Ford's becoming president. She noted
his presidency was marked by a determination to heal the country's wounds, including a
plan he enacted that allowed people who had fled the country to avoid service in
Vietnam to work their way home. She also commented on Betty Ford's courage and
candor in dealing with her diagnosis of breast cancer shortly after her husband assumed
office. Regent Newman highlighted some of the accomplishments of Mr. Ford's
presidency, including the origination of economic deregulation; the advancement of the
Middle East peace process and black majority rule in South Africa; and the Helsinki
Accord. "At a time of national cynicism and distrust," she concluded, "you healed a
nation in torment."
Regent White observed that "this is a great moment for the University of
Michigan." She noted that during his life in public service, President Ford had
embraced working together on a bipartisan basis for the good and the sake of the nation.
"It is an honor to have your name on our school," she commented, "and I also hope that
having your name there will encourage students to commit their lives to public policy."


116




November Meeting, 1999


Regent Brandon noted that this occasion provides "a unique opportunity to thank
you, on behalf of both the University and himself." President Ford's contributions both
to the University and the country, he said, have made the University "a more
meaningful place, a more important place, and a more fun place" for him to have
attended, been a student athlete, and now to serve as a Regent.
Regent Taylor observed that he was "privileged just to be here." He said that he
hoped President Ford knows how much his stature grows among all Americans with
each passing year. "As we come to appreciate and understand your courage, your
leadership, and your service to us, we will be forever indebted to you for the generosity
of your selflessness in saving this country and bringing it together during a period of
great turmoil."
Regent Horning noted that he knew President Ford as his congressman from Grand
Rapids in his youth. "This is your Michigan family saying thank you," he commented,
"and that's what's so special about it." He noted that former Regent Paul Goebel would
have been very proud on this occasion.
Regent McGowan observed that everyone on the board shares "an avocation for
public policy processes and import, and we admire especially those who choose public
life for their careers." Noting that the School of Public Policy "is one of the best," she
concluded that "it is an honor to entrust this noble school to your name."
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the naming of the School of Public Policy the Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy. A standing ovation followed.
President Bollinger thanked President Ford for allowing the University to honor
him for his "outstanding public service to our nation." He noted that he was looking
forward to President and Mrs. Ford returning to campus next September for the
dedication of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. "The naming of this school
in your honor," he said, "will serve as a reminder to all of us at Michigan especially
our students what character alone can accomplish."
Former President Ford reflected on his long association with the University of
Michigan, both as a student and throughout the rest of his life, commenting that "at no
time in my lifetime would I ever have dreamed that the name of Gerald R. Ford would
be associated with a school of public policy here at this great University." He noted
that the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library is located on the University of Michigan
campus, and said that he'd always hoped that a closer relationship could be developed
between the library and the University. He said that the establishment of the School of
Public Policy is the culmination of this dream.
President Ford thanked President Bollinger and Dean Blank for making this dream
come true and promised to do whatever he could to make the School of Public Policy
one of the very finest in the nation. A standing ovation followed.
The meeting recessed at 2:30 p.m., at which time a press conference was held with
President Ford.
The meeting resumed at 3:20 p.m.


117




November Meeting, 1999


Annual Report of Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
President Bollinger called on Professor Sherrie Kossoudji, chair of SACUA, to
present the annual report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs.
Professor Kossoudji observed that new communications technologies are fostering
interactions among faculty, executive officers, Regents, and other members of the
University community that would have been unimaginable in the past. This enhanced
access to communication and information helps to disseminate knowledge.
Professor Kossoudji highlighted several issues that are currently of concern to
SACUA. These include divestment of tobacco from University portfolios, electronic
privacy, technology transfer and intellectual property issues, the reduction in the
number of nontenure track faculty, and the creation of "virtual" centers for higher
education that do not have a physical site.
President Bollinger commented that SACUA had done a good job of drawing
attention to and stimulating discussion of electronic privacy issues. Further discussion
followed.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Gary Hann, alumnus, about harassment by
University of Michigan police; Audrey Jackson, alumna, about affirmative action
remedies; Bram Elias, president of Michigan Student Assembly, about student activism
on campus; Peter Romer-Friedman and Susan Harter, students and members of Students
Organized for Labor and Equality (SOLE), urging the University of Michigan to join the
Worker Rights Consortium.
Motion to Meet in Non-formal Session
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
I move that we adjourn this formal session of the Regents and begin a
non-formal session, the purpose of which is to consider a personnel evaluation.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting continued in non-formal session until about 5:15 p.m.
Friday, November 19, 1999
The Regents convened at 9:35 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent Maynard was absent.
Annual State Funding Request, Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Cantor reported that the preferred funding model, which occurred last year,
calls for a generous state appropriation that allows a restrained tuition increase. The


118




November Meeting, 1999


request for 2000-01 is for a 5 percent appropriation increase, which will allow for tuition
restraint.
Provost Cantor pointed out that compensation represents 61 percent of the General
Fund Budget; therefore the key budget challenges for the coming year arise from
compensation issues, namely growth in faculty and staff salaries, growth in benefits
costs, and union contracts that are up for renewal.
Regarding financial aid, Provost Cantor noted that the University offers both
need-based and merit-based financial aid for undergraduate and graduate students and
pledges to meet the financial aid needs of resident undergraduate students. Financial
aid accounts for 10 percent of the General Fund Budget. Regent Taylor requested that a
report on financial aid be given at a future Regents' Meeting.
Regarding the growth in faculty salaries, Provost Cantor reported that the average
faculty salary increase nationwide last year was 4.8 percent, with higher increases at the
private institutions and research and doctoral institutions with which the University
competes.  A 4-5 percent average merit salary pool has just kept up with the
competition.
Because so much emphasis has been placed on faculty salaries, Provost Cantor
described the components. In the typical case, she noted, the merit pool will have four
components: promotions (5-8 percent); specific retention efforts to combat offers from
competing institutions (about 10 percent); market adjustments (15-33 percent) so as to
be proactive rather than reactive in retaining the best faculty; and increases based on
recent performance for the remaining 50-70 percent. Provost Cantor noted that all
salary assessments are really assessments of merit and productivity. They are not done
in any across the board fashion. Each school and college uses a unique set of
performance indicators on which to evaluate performance.
Regent Newman said that it would be helpful to receive a review of faculty
salaries for the past 4-5 years to examine the pattern of increases. It was noted that the
use of available funds for retention reduces the amount available for merit increases,
and this causes concern among faculty.   It is hoped that emphasizing market
adjustments will alleviate this situation.
Provost Cantor noted that a major factor creating pressure on staff compensation is
the low unemployment rate in southeast Michigan, especially for highly-educated
workers, and that this is particularly severe for information technology staff. Staff
benefits also create compensation pressures, she said, noting that benefits costs rose 10
percent this year and are projected to rise 8 percent next year and 7 percent the
following year. In addition, a number of union contracts will be up for renewal this
year, and these also affect the General Fund.
Provost Cantor observed that information technology is increasingly affecting
academic programs, and it is critical to have the highest quality technical staff to
support administrative systems, curriculum and research needs, and students.
Information technology also requires substantial capital renewal costs, for example $23
million for Internet2 wiring. Information technology is being integrated into the
curriculum in order to enhance fluency, train future professionals, study questions of
technology and society that are raised by technological innovations, and explore and


119




November Meeting, 1999


develop cutting edge fields, such as bioinformatics, that are emerging from
technological innovations.
Provost Cantor concluded by pointing out that in addition to the 5 percent base
budget request the total requested increase of $25.9 million for 2000-01 includes
beginning support for two special initiatives, in information technology and instruction
technology, and for continuing initiatives in learning communities and the life science
undergraduate curriculum.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual Ann Arbor campus operating request to the state for
FY 2001, as presented.
University of Michigan-Dearborn 2000-2001 General Fund Budget Request
Interim Chancellor Klein noted that the Dearborn campus is heavily engaged in
experiential learning through internship and coop programs and in outreach and
cooperation with the neighboring industrial and business communities. The budget
requests $975,000 to fund 12 new faculty lines for 2000-01 that are necessary to
incorporate the new degree programs that have been created; $1,250,000 to continue
expanding the use of information technologies in support of learning; and $250,000 for
continuation of the campus's outreach programs to help serve the needs of southeast
Michigan communities. The total requested increase is $2,557,000.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the 2000-01 state appropriations request for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn.
University of Michigan-Flint 2000-2001 General Fund Budget Request
Chancellor Mestas noted that the UM-Flint budget request contains four
components: $950,000 for general operating costs; $800,000 to strengthen professional
programs, technological capacity, and applied research; $400,000 for increased
information technology access; and $425,000 for equipment maintenance, repair, and
replacement. He pointed out that the various components of the budget also reflect the
University's continuing commitment to the Flint community.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the 2000-2001 General Fund budget request for the University
of Michigan-Flint.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the October 1999
meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment and Plant Extension.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established for October 1-31, 1999.


120




November Meeting, 1999


Michigan Student Assembly Report. Mr. Bram Elias, president of Michigan
Student Assembly (MSA), Mr. Glen Roe, chair of the Budget Priorities Committee, and
Mr. Andy Coulouris, vice president of MSA, gave a presentation on the process used by
the Budget Priorities Committee to fund student groups. Mr. Roe noted that 267
student groups across campus had requested funding during the fall term; 220 of those
received a total of $96,600. This amount represents only 19.75 percent of the total
funds requested by all groups. Over time, he noted the trend has been a greater
dependency on MSA for funding for student groups.
Mr. Roe reported that a large portion of funding requests were from club sports
organizations, and that each club sport charges dues to the participants, some of which
are rather substantial. He noted that the amount of funding available for club sports
from MSA is minimal and does not reduce costs significantly for each participant. The
high fees charged to people who wish to participate in club sports prohibits some
students from participating.
Mr. Coularis reported that MSA believes that the most important issue for MSA is
providing opportunities for students, and that a public commitment must be made to
provide financial assistance for those who cannot afford to participate on their own. To
this end, MSA decided to hold a referendum to see whether students would be willing
to contribute $0.25 per student per term for one year. This would raise an initial
endowment of $18,000 which would be complimented by fundraising activities by club
sports participants. He emphasized that the issue is one of access, and is a priority for
MSA.
Mr. Roe observed that most students who participate in club sports are in favor of
this initiative, and it is an important issue for students in general.
Regent Newman pointed out that if the ballot initiative is approved by the student
body, the additional MSA fee would have to be approved by the Regents before it could
be implemented. She suggested that MSA officers look at the additional MSA fee in
the context of the entire student fee schedule. It was also pointed out that there are a
number of student organizations that are in need of additional funding. Mr. Elias
responded that club sports groups as a category of student organization tend to charge
their members much more than other groups. Also, unlike other student organizations,
club sports require a certain level of funding in order to exist at all; they cannot reduce
their programming in order to make do with less.
Regent White commented that it would be helpful to have a schedule of the dues
charged by other student organizations as a basis for comparison.
Mr. Mike Stevenson, director of Recreational Sports, reported that club sports
receive a subsidy of $80,000 from Recreational Sports. They do not receive any
funding from the Athletic Department.
It was noted that the $.25 figure was arrived at as an amount that would be
palatable to students. It was also considered as a symbolic amount to determine the
degree of student support for this issue.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
commented on recent recognition received by the health system. MCare was one of 38
health plans nationwide to be cited as a leader in quality assurance by the National


121




November Meeting, 1999


Council on Quality Assurance. He noted that the medical readiness simulator and
trainer for extreme emergencies in the Department of Emergency Medicine had been
nominated for inclusion in the Smithsonian Institution's permanent research collection.
He also reported that the Health System's helicopter ambulance service, Survival
Flight, was recently named the best in the country.
Dearborn campus. Interim Chancellor Klein reported that the child development
center has been re-accredited by the National Association for the Education of Young
Children, one of only 7 percent of programs nationwide to earn this endorsement. He
also noted that a $2.5 million gift had been received from the Ford Motor Company
Fund which will serve as the basis of an endowment for the upkeep of the campus'
Henry Ford Estate.
Flint Campus. Chancellor Mestas reported that the NCA accreditation team
visited the campus last week and were very impressed. They are recommending a full
ten-year reaccreditation for the campus. He also noted that former Chancellor Clinton
Jones would be retiring in December 1999.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the monthly report of gifts
received. She also acknowledged the University of Michigan's contributions to the
United Way campaign. Regent McGowan, chair of the University's campaign, noted
that the goal of $1 million had been exceeded and complimented the University
community for its extraordinary contributions to that effort.
AGC America, Inc., Plymouth
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. $ 15,000
Arthur E. Ahlgrim Estate
8,294 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 405,980
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering
and  for employee matching  gifts...............................................  51,760
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
1,000 shares of Adobe Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Bruce B. Allen Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..... 117,313
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturer's, Inc., Washington, DC
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 690,000
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  11,647
Aluminum Company of America, Davenport, Iowa
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 30,000
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 79,968
American Chemical Society, Denton, Texas
for the American Chemical Society Fellowship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 18,500
American Industrial Hygiene Association Foundation, Fairfax, Virginia
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 6,500
American Israel Education Fund, Troy
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund, School of Business Administration.... 110,000
American United Life Insurance Company Charitable Trust, Indianapolis, Indiana
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships, the Minority Engineering Program, and other support in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  19,000
Ann Arbor Acura, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000


122




November Meeting, 1999


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research............... 61,320
Bank of America, Atlanta, Georgia
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 9,058
Joy H. Baxt, Washington, DC
for support in the School of Nursing............................................. 5,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School.................................................  10,000
Marion E. Beebe Trust
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............ 5,000
M. E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia, Canada
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and for the
Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 6,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
1,275 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Guido A. Binda Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning............................................. 50,004
BMW North America, Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 15,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 40,000
Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation, Winter Park, Florida
for the University Hospitals Women's Health Community Outreach Program............ 18,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................. 125,000
Marilynn J. Cason, Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois
250 shares of DeVry, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,469
Chase Manhattan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship, School of Business Administration...... 50,000
William R. Childs, Denver, Colorado
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  5,000
CoCensys, Inc., Irvine, California
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 45,000
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Avem L. Cohn Fund for Advancement of Michigan Law in the Law School....... 27,750
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
900 shares of Dean Foods Company common stocks
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Conger Fund in the University Library, for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship,
and for the University  Musical Society..........................................  38,044
Bruce L. Cook, Owosso
2,600 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration....................................................  101,725
Coming, Inc., Foundation, Coming, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,150
Katherine Q. Cox, Flint
for the Lawrence E. Quinn Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music................ 5,000
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
223 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 12,021
Frances M. Daseler Trust
for the Elizabeth C. Mullin-Welch Lectureship Fund in the Center for the Education
of  W om en.................................................................  10,000
Deister Machine Company, Inc., Fort Wayne, Indiana
for research in the Medical School and the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 11,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Delta Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry........................... 8,000
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,719


123




November Meeting, 1999


Diebold Foundation, Southbury, Connecticut
for the Middle English Dictionary Fund.......................................... 5,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women,
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for the Michigan League, the Clements Library, the Museum
of Art, and the University Musical Society........................................ 6,700
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 7,500
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 38,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 19,100
Russell L. Epker, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
Susan H. Farquhar, Andover, Massachusetts
310 shares of Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc., common stock
for support in the Medical School..............................................  15,878
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration and for other support at the
U niversity  of M ichigan........................................................ 9,000
Marjorie M. Fisher Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 350,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 2,500,000
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 119,431
John A. and E. Madonna Graham Trust
for the  University  Hospitals...................................................  11,428
Charles Grosberg Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
254 shares of Associated First Capital Corporation common stock
for the Dr. Joseph 0. And Mrs. Norma Grosberg Endowment, School of Dentistry......... 9,498
Handleman Company, Troy
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration......................................................  10,000
Anne Vance Hatcher, Ann Arbor
2,185 shares of Tecumseh Products Company common stock
for the Harlan and Anne Hatcher Library Endowment............................... 96,755
Ralph C. Heid, Jr., Plymouth
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 5,600
A. B. Heller, Inc., Milford
for the Al Renfrew Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for the A. B. Heller
Manufacturing Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering................... 10,000
Daniel J. Hennessy, Lake Forest, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Lula M. Hile Trust
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................. 150,000
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
100 shares of GTE Corporation common stock
for support in  the M edical School...............................................  7,241
James A. Hiller, Franklin
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 35,000
Sidney M. Hiller, Franklin
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 35,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer
Center and for support in the Medical School.....................................  25,500
William N. Hubbard, Jr., Kalamazoo
1,440 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for support in  the M edical School.............................................  100,440
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 300,000
Elizabeth B. Hutchcroft, Rockford, Illinois
for the Lawrence Conrey Memorial Award Fund in the School of Education.............. 5,000


124




November Meeting, 1999


Industrial Technology Institute, Ann Arbor
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 7,500
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 35,000
Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School....................... 152,923
Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Dean's Faculty Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 12,500
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 6,350
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 7,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Social Work and the Institute for Social Research.......... 93,485
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
1,761 shares of Vanguard Total Market Index Fund mutual fund and a cash gift
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship, School of Business Administration.... 150,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for WUOM............................................................... 75,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  19,083
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Information and for employee matching gifts............. 609,189
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 5,000
Robert M. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Robert M. And Wallis C. Klein Darrow Merit Scholarship in the Law School...... 13,812
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 53,913
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Norman M. Leff, New York, New York
for the Dale E. and Norman M. Leff Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 5,000
Carl and Ethel Levine, Encino, California
for support in  the M edical School...............................................  5,000
Elizabeth A. Long Estate
for the Elizabeth A. Long Endowed Professorship, the Thomas G. Long Endowed
Professorship, and the Thomas G. and Mabel Long Professorship in the Law School..... 734,788
Long International, Inc., Greenville, South Carolina
for the S. M. Wu Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering....................... 20,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Clare Boothe Luce Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering...... 25,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Michael D. Luxenberg, Redmond, Washington
for the Jack Luxenberg Student Loan Fund, in memory of Beth Luxenberg............... 5,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, for the Nichols
Arboretum Visitor Center, and for other support of the University of Michigan........... 27,700
Robert J. MacDonald Estate
for the Wallace J. Bonk Memorial Fund in the School of Information and for the
U niversity  Library..........................................................  81,357
Elizabeth N. Mall, Ann Arbor
155 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Willis D. Nance Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 5,100
Gregory A. Margolies, New York, New York
for the Margolies Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................. 5,000
Charlotte McGeoch Trust
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 50,000
McNamara Scholarship Fund, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the McNamara Charity Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................ 5,500


125




November Meeting, 1999


Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for the Rogers McVaugh Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 15,000
Stephen Meadow, Beverly Hills, California
for the Stephen and Mary Meadow Faculty Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................  12,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering................... 15,000
Sally Morley, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
John C. and Sally S. Morley Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business Adm inistration..................................................... 50,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................  25,000
Ruth Rawlings Mott Trust
for W FUM -TV.............................................................. 5,000
MSX International, Inc., Auburn Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 14,700
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 47,500
Robert L. Neir, Kirkland, Washington
100 shares of Microsoft, Inc., common stock
for the Roby  M. Burley  Scholarship.............................................. 9,445
New Venture Gear, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Paul A. Nordgren Estate
for support in the College of Engineering and for unrestricted support of the
University  of M ichigan....................................................... 50,999
Northern Star Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 25,000
Oracle Corporation, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Peter S. Ordway, Hickory Comers
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 20,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the Center for Population Planning in the School of Public Health.......... 91,050
Richard H. F. Pao, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Bell Atlantic Corporation common stock
for the Professor Miranda Lee Pao Memorial Fund in the School of Information.......... 66,313
Marion L. Parkhurst Estate
for the Marion Parkhurst Endowment at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 61,275
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for English Language and Literature support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 5,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacia and Upjohn Fellowships in the College of Literature, Sciences,
and   the   A rts................................................................  10,000
Phoenix Services, Ann Arbor
for  W U O M................................................................  6,289
L. Norris Post, Creedmoor, North Carolina
for the Nichols Arboretum  Flowering Tree Fund................................... 10,000
Andrew S. Price, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania
228 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law   School.................................................  14,706
QAD, Inc., Mount Laurel, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
R*Works, Warren
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............ 10,000
William B. Richards, Findlay, Ohio
133 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  10,324
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School................. 5,927


126




November Meeting, 1999


Carl Roehling, Birmingham
for the Smith, Hinchman, and Grylls Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning.............................................. 5,000
Hugh Rose, Tucson, Arizona
for the Hugh and Mary Austin Rose Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Hugh and Mary Austin Rose Endowed Scholarship............ 100,300
Anna Lou Johnston Roth Estate
for the Anna Lou Johnston Roth Scholarship in the School of Education.............. 150,000
Judy Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
139 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the School of Music,
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund, and for the University Musical Society.... 15,664
Rustic Enterprises, Ann Arbor
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund.................................... 5,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Policy....................................... 15,346
Saltz Center, LLC, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Michael Santicchia, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Marching Band Fund in
the  School of M usic..........................................................  5,250
Frances B. Schneider, Lansing
for the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Student Merit Award Endowment.. 10,000
Helen Schulz, Rushville, Indiana
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund................................... 10,000
Sepracor, Inc., Marlborough, Massachusetts
for research  in the School of Public Health........................................  7,500
Myron M. Sheinfeld, Houston, Texas
for support of the Law   School.................................................  10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 989,858
Smith Group Company, Detroit
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning..... 5,000
Darryl L. Snider, Rolling Hills, California
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Spencer Professorship of Organizational Studies in the Schools of Business
Administration and Education and for research in the School of Education............ 1,532,800
Robert Stiber, Vail, Colorado
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  13,000
Miriam F. Tabor, Sarasota, Florida
300 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock
for the Amson C. and Miriam F. Tabor Scholarship in the School of Music.............. 12,741
Robert E. Terkhom, Castle Rock, Colorado
140 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 6,458
Royal Thompson Trust
for support of the Law   School.................................................  10,000
Jeanette Tinker Trust
for the M artha Cook Residence Hall............................................  50,000
Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan, Tokyo, Japan
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
Toyota Technical Center, U.S.A., Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Union Carbide Foundation, Danbury, Connecticut
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering........................ 5,000
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature, College of
Literature, Science  and  the Arts................................................  20,000
United Way of Orange County, Orange, California
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............ 8,000


127




November Meeting, 1999


University of Michigan Club of Toledo, Temperance
for the University of Michigan Club of Toledo Scholarship.......................... 5,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School................................ 13,000
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
120,000 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Walgreen Scholarships in the Schools of Education and Music and in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Charles R. and Jean B.
Walgreen Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy.............................. 3,052,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Steams Collection in the School of Music and for biostatistics support in
the School of Public Health...................................................  22,243
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................... 28,800
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering, the Medical School, and at the University
of Michigan-Flint.......................................................... 364,481
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the APPAM/Sloan Fellowship in the School of Public Policy...................... 15,000
Young Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 5,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
a 15 horsepower motor and controller for the mechanical and applied mechanics department
Clifford H. Hart, Flint
furniture, office equipment, and law books for the University of Michigan-Flint
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Joseph Cepuran, Plymouth                    Jason B. Parnell, Ann Arbor
Carl Cohen, Ann Arbor                       Christopher Tucker, Colleyville, Texas
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 2000
Maynard, Charles Jack., Ed.D., Professor of Education, with tenure, and Dean, UM-Flint School of
Education and Human Services, five year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective October 1, 1999-June 30, 2002
Schmoll, Beverly J., Dean of Graduate Programs and Research, UM-Flint
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective November 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Gomez, Luis O., Professor of Psychology and Religious Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999
Grotberg, James B., Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School
Williams, David M., Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School


128




November Meeting, 1999


Woolliscroft, James O., Executive Associate Dean, Medical School
Yee, Albert F., Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, September 1, 1999
LEAVE OF ABSENCES FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 2000
Gramlich, Edward M., Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, School of Public Policy, and Professor of
Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, public service
leave extended, three year term
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS.
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Roger C. Lyndon Collegiate Professorship in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five
year renewable term, September 1, 1999
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Professorship in Environmental and Ecosystems Engineering, College of
Engineering, five year renewable term, December 1, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective July 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
New Appointment to Established Professorship
Jackson, John E., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year term, retroactive from July 1, 1999
Other Transactions
Burkel, William E., from Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Department of Cell and
Developmental Biology, to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Anatomy Teaching
Unit, Medical School
Cortright, Gerald W., from Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Department of Cell and Developmental
Biology, to Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Fischer, Theodore V., from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Department
of Cell and Developmental Biology, to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with
tenure, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Fisher, Don Lowell, from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Department of
Cell and Developmental Biology, to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with
tenure, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Gest, Thomas R. from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without tenure, Department of
Cell and Developmental Biology, to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without
tenure, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Glover, Roy A., from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without tenure, Department of
Cell and Developmental Biology, to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without
tenure, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Kim, Sun-Kee, from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without tenure, Department of
Cell and Developmental Biology, to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without
tenure, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Raoof, Ameed, from Visiting Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Department of Cell and
Developmental Biology, to Visiting Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Anatomy Teaching Unit,
Medical School
Stein, Tamara, from Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Department of Cell and Developmental
Biology, to Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Anatomy Teaching Unit, Medical School
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akerley, Brian J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, one
year term, September 1, 1999


129




November Meeting, 1999


Baer, Marc D., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, four month term, September 1, 1999
Bass, Christine K., A.M., Lecturer II in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
four month term, September 1, 1999
Bennett, Lori J., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Bergeron, Suzanne L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies and Social Sciences,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Browning, Kimberly G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Cruz Da Silva, Castro Marcia C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, four month term, October 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
Dabdoub, Miguel J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four
month term, September 1, 1999
Dinc, Ihsan S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration, October 1,
1999- May 31, 2002
Ernst, Susan D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, one year term,
January 3, 2000
Fischbach, Peter S., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, one year
term, October 1, 1999
Garcia Santo-Tomas, Enrique, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, October 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Golec, Stanislaw, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term, October 1, 1999
Hasanadka, Thimmappayya, M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term,
September 27, 1999
Heitzeg, Mary M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four
month term, September 1, 1999
Hsieh, Miao-Ling, M.A., Lecturer II in Chinese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Jin, Jionghua, Ph.D., Lecturer in Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering, one year
term, September 1, 1999
Kolias, Theodore J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, September 1, 1999
Li, Chen, B.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
four month term, September 1, 1999
Loeser, Elaine M., J.D., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, September 1, 1999
Murakami, Tomoko, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Anesthesiology, Medical School, October 4, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Ohara, Kaori, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four month term,
September 1, 1999
Persell, Deborah J., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Ramsden, Todd Gregory, M.S.E.S., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of
Engineering, four month term, September 1, 1999
Squatriti, Paolo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Romance Languages
and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Suzuki, Masae, Bachelor, Lecturer II in Japanese Calligraphy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
four month term, September 1, 1999
Toyooka, Aiko, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Williams, Elizabeth A., M.Arch., Assistant Professor of Practice, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Terry, Charles M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
(previously reported as Lecturer in Sociology)


130




November Meeting, 1999


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Ayyangar, Rita N., from Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, one year term
Bradley, Bruce E., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Assistant
Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure,
School of Dentistry
Chen, Jian-Jun, from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, one year term, October 1, 1999
Kormendi, Roger C., from Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy to Adjunct Professor of
Business Economics, School of Business Administration, October 1, 1999
Morrison, Sean, Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, one year term
Pelosi, Frank Jr., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, one year term
Vijan, Sandeep, from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, one year term, October 1, 1999
Wang, Timothy S., from Lecturer in Dermatology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology,
Medical School, one year term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bohr, David F., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, one year term, July 1, 1999
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, four month term, September 1, 1999
Wright, John W., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, four month term, January 1, 2000
Yeh, Gregory, Professor Emeritus of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1999-December 31, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beddor, Patrice S., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, one year term, January 1, 2000
Bradley, Bruce E., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, retirement
furlough, one year term, November 17, 1999
Brennan, Beverly, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, family medical leave,
September 8-October 31, 1999
Carlson, Bruce M., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, and Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, one year term, September 1, 1999
Comninou, Maria, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, four month term, September 1, 1999
Ellis, James H., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, four month term, August 1, 1999
Fine, Sidney, Andrew Dickson White Professor of History and Professor of History, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough (phased), September 1, 1999-May 31,
2001
Fleming, Ronald F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, four month term, September 1, 1999
Hunt, Karen A., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, family medical leave, October 25-November 14,
1999
Kazanjian, Sahira N., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, family medical leave,
August 4-November 11, 1999
Krause, Eugene F., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000


131




November Meeting, 1999


Lewis, Donald J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Lyons, Thomas F., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
retirement furlough, one year term, January 1, 2000
Na, Tsung Yen, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Engineering,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Porter, David L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant Professor of
Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Song, Julie H., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, family medical leave,
September 7-24, 1999
Stafford, J. Tobias, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Steinmetz, George P., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Germanic
Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2000
Steneck, Nicholas H., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Professional Ethics, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January
1- May 31, 2000
Stewart, Abigail J., Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Strassmann, Beverly I., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, medical leave, four month term, September 1, 1999, and sabbatical leave, one year term,
January 1, 2000
Thomason, Sarah G., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Widner, Jennifer A., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Witke, Charles, Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, January 1-May 31, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Green, Thomas A., John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, and Professor History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2000 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 2000)
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, teaching leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
(previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1999)
Siebers, Tobin A., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000 (previously reported January 1-May 31, 2000)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Bree, Robert L., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure,
Medical School, September 30, 1999
Carolin, Kathryn A., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Elgert, Stephen D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, September 30, 1999
English, Susan L., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, August 31, 1999
Gilbert, Nitsa D., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 29, 1999
Hobbs, Raymond, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Huber, Thomas P., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Mulrooney, Scott B., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, Medical School, November 15, 1999
Murad, Sharlet, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, October 13, 1999
Neacy, Kathleen A., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Thoene, Jess G., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, November 30, 1999


132




November Meeting, 1999


Retired
Fellin, Phillip A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, December 31, 1999
Fowler, Gary W., George Willis Pack Professor of Forestry and Professor of Biometry, with tenure,
School of Natural Resources and Environment, December 31, 1999
Getty, Ward D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 1999
Haessler, Robert W., Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, August 31, 1999
Jones, Clinton B., Chancellor Emeritus and Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, December 31,1999
Ribbens, William B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, December 31, 1999
VanFossen, Marcia T., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31 1999
Term Completed
Ahrends, Maike, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 31, 1999
Bowen, Eugene J., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Calabria, Pier G., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), School of Music, May 31, 1999
Caumartin, Susan M., Lecturer in Epidemiology, School of Public Health, December 31, 1999
Collins, Peter A., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Conlon, Megan R., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Dohm-Palmer, Robbie C., Lecturer I in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Eklov, Brian M., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Flackett, Jennifer A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Green, Jack G., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Holowchak, Mark A., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
1999
Kazantzis, Nikolaos, Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, May 31, 1999
Levin, Mark, Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Mardon, Mary T., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
1998
McGee, Sean H., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1999
Montross, Christine E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Palmer, Stephanie C., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 31, 1999
Parmenter, Jon W., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Pearce, Timothy A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Pepper, John W., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
1998
Ponyicsanyi, John V., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 13, 1999
Steinberg, Marsha A., Lecturer in Studio Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
1998
Straugh, Jeremy B., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Strauss, Michelle E. B., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Wierba, Elizabeth E., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, October 1, 1999
Winsten, Beth T., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Retirement memoirs. No faculty retirements were reported to the Regents this
month.


133




November Meeting, 1999


Memorial statements. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for
Neil M. Kalter, professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and in the Medical School.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the
death of Neil M. Kalter, Ph.D., professor of psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and professor of psychology, Department of Psychiatry, Medical School.
Professor Kalter received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in
1971, at which time he joined the faculties of the Departments of Psychology and
Psychiatry. He served as director of the Center for the Child and Family in the Institute
of Human Adjustment from 1987-92. Under his directorship, the Center for the Child
and Family was described as a model for the training of doctoral students in clinical
psychology and of other mental health practitioners in child, adolescent, and family
psychotherapy.
As both clinician and scholar with an international reputation, Professor Kalter was
especially recognized for his outstanding contributions to the understanding of the
impact of parental divorce upon children, the subject of his 1990 book, Growing up with
Divorce, and his creation of a widely adopted model for prevention groups involving
children of divorce.
Professor Kalter was a gifted researcher, an excellent teacher, and a highly regarded
dissertation supervisor. He taught courses in statistics and child psychopathology and
provided statistical and methodological consultation to a wide variety of students. He
was honored in 1995 as Teacher of the Year in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.
Revered and respected by his friends and encolleagues in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the thMedical School, Professor Kalter was a compassionate
professional who brought to his work a sincere dedication to understanding important
social problems faced by families. As we mourn the loss of this distinguished professor,
our condolences go to his wife Susan and his daughters Jennifer, Stacy, and Lindsay.
President Bollinger reported the death of Regent Emeritus Alfred B. Connable on
November 16 at the age of 95 and of William J. Gedney, professor emeritus of linguistics.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted the December 1999 Doctoral Degree List and
changes to previously approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees. President Bollinger submitted recommendations for three
honorary degree recipients for the December 1999 commencement: Neeme Jarvi,
music director of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra (Doctor of Music); Grace Paley,
writer, poet, and essayist (Doctor of Humane Letters); and Romano Prodi, economist
and president of the Commission of the European Community (Doctor of Laws).
Regent Taylor left the meeting at this point (10:55 a.m.).
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Six Months Report on University Audits
Executive Vice President Kasdin and Robert Moenart, Interim Director of
University Audits, submitted the Six Months Report on University Audits.


134




November Meeting, 1999


University of Michigan Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended
June 30, 1999
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the University of Michigan Financial
Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1999.
Dahn Trust Distribution of Real Estate
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved accepting the transfer of a 100-acre parcel of vacant farmland
located in Salem Township, subject to the option agreement currently in place with the
Real Estate Interest Group (REI). In the event REI is successful in obtaining the
necessary approvals the transaction will be completed at the $1.2 million price. If REI is
unsuccessful, the University will consider other options. All sales proceeds will benefit
the School of Dentistry.
West Hall Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the West Hall Renovation Project, as described in the Regents
Communication, and authorized contracting with the firm of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc.,
for its design.
Payment for Services of Ann Arbor Aerial Limited, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the processing of payment for the services of Ann Arbor Aerial
Limited, Inc. for aerial reconnaissance photography performed for the Department of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering. Because the owner of Ann Arbor Aerial
Limited, Inc., Warren Eaton, is also a University of Michigan employee, this arrangement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the payment for services will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and its Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering and Ann
Arbor Aerial Limited, Inc.
2.   The service provided was two flights for aerial photography reconnaissance, in June
and August, 1999 for a total cost of $4,524.01.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Warren Eaton, sole owner of Ann
Arbor Aerial, Ltd., is a University of Michigan employee.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Transplantation Society of
Michigan (TSM)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Transplantation Society of Michigan (TSM), whereby through a project funded by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for which Robert M. Merion serves as
principal investigator, an existing University of Michigan-based web site will be
expanded and linked to a statewide donor agency. The project involves a consortium, and
TSM is the principal grant awardee on behalf of the consortium. Because Robert Merion
is both a University of Michigan faculty member and president of TSM, this agreement


135




November Meeting, 1999


falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and the
Transplantation Society of Michigan (TSM).
2.   Terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
The amount of the agreement with the University will be approximately $604,000.
The period of performance is three years. Services requested of the University by
TSM during the term of Dr. Merion's presidency will be approved by two people, the
executive director (who is also principal investigator for the consortium) and TSM's
financial director, to determine whether they are within the scope of the agreement and
chargeable to TSM.
3.   As president of TSM and principal investigator for this project at the University, Dr.
Merion will receive partial University salary support under the grant consortium
agreement; he will receive no compensation as president of TSM. As a continuing
board member, Dr. Merion receives a nominal honorarium for attendance at TSM
meetings.
Reassignment Agreement with Rui-Feng Wang
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement with Rui-Feng Wang for the invention,
"A Method for Combining Physical Objects Using Polar Coordinate Statistical Analysis."
Because Mr. Wang is both a party to the agreement and a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are The University of Michigan and Rui-Feng Wang.
2.   Terms of the agreement include reimbursement to the University for all patent
expenses and payment to the University of 15% of any royalties, equity, or other value
received by Mr. Wang through subsequent marketing and licensing of the invention.
The University retains an irrevocable, royalty-free license to use and practice the
invention internally. No continuing development of the invention will take place with
the use of University funds, facilities, or funds administered by the University, unless
appropriate formal University approvals are obtained.
3.   Mr. Wang's pecuniary interest arises from  his direct management of future
commercialization efforts of the invention.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and MedCharge, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
MedCharge, Inc. Because Ronald B. Hirschl and William P. Fleischmann are both
University of Michigan employees and part-owners of MedCharge, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MedCharge, Inc.
2.   Contract terms include: An exclusive right to use, create derivative works, and to
market the programs;
The University retains ownership of the licensed programs and may continue to
further develop and use them at UM or any of its affiliated medical services sites;
A 5% equity position plus royalties that will decline over time from 10% to 1.5%;
MedCharge will provide free copies of its product to Michigan;
Milestones include closing on investment of $1,000,000 by June 30, 2000;


136




November Meeting, 1999


No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Hirschl and Mr. Fleischmann arises from their ownership
in the company. They have assigned any rights they may have to the software to the
University and acknowledged that their contribution to the development of the
software was within their specifically assigned tasks and they are not eligible to
receive inventors' share of royalties received by the University from MedCharge.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and TIREM, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a proposed license agreement between the University of Michigan
and TIREM, Inc., for "Merit AAA Server" software. Because John Vollbrecht, a
University staff member, is also principal owner of TIREM, Inc., and six other staff
members will be employees with stock options at TIREM, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and TIREM, a company
owned by University of Michigan employees, John Vollbrecht, David Spence,
Michael Abraha, Robert Oxender, Wei Wang, David Belenky, and Jack DiGiuseppe.
2.   Contract terms include:
An exclusive right to use, create derivative works, and distribute and sublicense the
technology;
The University retains the rights necessary to meet its obligations to existing licensees.
The University retains ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool;
A 15% equity position;
An additional $3 million fee is due if the company significantly changes business
ownership in the first year, with the fee declining to zero over a 7-year period;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement;
The company must commence full time operations by March 31, 2000.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Mr. Vollbrecht, Mr. Spence, Mr. Abraha, Mr. Oxender, Mr.
Wang, Mr. Belenky, and Mr. DiGiuseppe arises from their ownership in the company.
They have assigned any rights they may have to the AAA Server to the University and
acknowledged that their contribution to the development of the software was within
their specifically assigned tasks and they are not eligible to receive the inventors'
share of royalties received by the University from TIREM.
Naming of the Center for Community Service and Learning in Honor of Edward
Ginsberg
Interim Vice President Harper commented that staff from the Division of Student
Affairs and the Center for Community Service Learning are thrilled by the generous $5
million gift from Mr. Ginsberg to support the programs and activities of the center.
Regent White moved approval of the naming of the Edward Ginsberg Center for
Community Service and Learning at the University of Michigan. Regent Deitch
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Reorganization and Renaming of the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved reorganization of the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology


137




November Meeting, 1999


and renaming it the Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Non-tenure Track Clinical II Appointment Sequence in the School of Public Health
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the establishment of a non-tenure track clinical II appointment
sequence in the School of Public Health.
Approval of UM-Flint Academic Calendars for 2001-02 and 2002-03
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the UM-Flint academic calendars for 2001-02 and 2002-03.
Henry Russel Lecturers for 2000 and 2001
President Bollinger announced that Abigail J. Stewart has been selected as the Henry
Russel Lecturer for 2000. She is professor of psychology and professor of women's
studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; research scientist, Center for the
Education of Women; and director, Institute for Research on Women and Gender.
The lecturer-designate, to be awarded the 2001 Henry Russel Lectureship, is Sid
Gilman, the William J. Herdman Professor of Neurology, professor of neurology, and
chair of the Department of Neurology.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger commented on awards that have been received recently by
several faculty members. He also noted that several staff members had recently been
recognized for their service of 45 or more years to the University.
He reported that the women's soccer and field hockey teams had won Big Ten
titles and that the field hockey team would be playing in the NCAA semifinals for the
first time in its 26-year history. President Bollinger observed that the UM solar car had
finished in ninth place in the 1999 World Solar Challenge, and that Survival Flight had
been named the best air medical program in the country.
Regent Deitch observed that there are many remarkable people and events
associated with the University of Michigan, all of which bring great credit to the
institution. He thanked President Bollinger for his leadership in bringing to fruition the
naming of the School of Public Policy for President Ford.
President Bollinger announced that he and Mrs. Bollinger had been invited by
Professor Emeritus Martinus Veltman to represent the University of Michigan at the
Nobel Prize Awards ceremony.
Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby gave a presentation on the career of University of Michigan
alumna Karen Uhlenbeck, an eminent mathematician who currently holds the Sid W.
Richardson Foundation Regents Chair in Mathematics at the University of Texas at
Austin.


138




November Meeting, 1999


Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:30 a.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for December 16 and 17, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


139




DECEMBER MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 16, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:50 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and White.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Interim Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Taylor
and Vice President Feagin were absent. Regent Deitch arrived at 2:55 p.m.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order. He commented on what a
privilege it had been for him and his wife, Jean, to attend the Nobel Prize award
ceremonies in Stockholm.
MSA Monthly Report: The Democracy Project
Bram Elias, president of Michigan Student Assembly, introduced Ms. Sherry Katz,
chair of the Democracy Project. Ms. Katz noted that the Democracy Project is a
component of the Voice Your Vote Task Force. Its mission is to facilitate the means of
civic participation for the campus community, and it believes that civic participation
can be achieved only through the robust exchange of ideas. The Democracy Project
will encourage this by creating opportunities for public discussion on state and national
issues on campus.
Ms. Katz noted that the topic of the first forum organized by the Democracy
Project was "Gun Control and the Right to Bear Arms." The goal is to institutionalize
this project by holding monthly forums, each of which would focus on a different issue.
Prior to each forum, every student who lives in a residence hall receives a newsletter
and questionnaire about the chosen issue. The next forum, to be held in January 2000,
will examine the United States' responsibilities in working with nations that don't
recognize human rights. It is hoped that by the time students graduate from the
University, they will have received not only a world class education, but training on
how to become effective and informed citizens.
The Perigee of the Moon
Vice President Ulaby reported that during the Winter Solstice, which occurs on
December 22, the moon will also be at the closest point it gets to the earth (perigee).
This combination happens only once every 137 years. The result is that the moon will
appear about 14 percent larger and will be about 7 percent brighter.
Annual Report on Research, Scholarship, and Creative Activity at the University
of Michigan, FY1999
Vice President Ulaby said that his first year as vice president for research had been
fantastic. He observed that the zest for research and scholarship at the University is one
of its most distinguishing characteristics. He explored what motivates people to spend


139




December Meeting, 1999


20 years or more pursuing the answers to questions; the special chemistry that forms
between faculty and students who collaborate in scholarly pursuits; and what research
means from the standpoint of society and its needs.
The high caliber of the faculty is exemplified by the hundreds of awards and honors
received each year, including, for example, the election of five University of Michigan
faculty members to the prestigious Institute of Medicine. He also highlighted the
Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring
recently received by the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP).
He provided videotaped portrayals highlighting the research of five individual
faculty members, explaining their work and why it is so exciting to them. The five
faculty were James Bardwell (assistant professor of biology in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts); Arlene Saxonhouse (professor of political science and women's
studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts); Thomas Gladwin (Max
McGraw Professor of Corporate and Environmental Management and professor of
business administration in the School of Business Administration and professor of
natural resources and environment in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment); Brian Athey (assistant professor of anatomy and cell biology in the
Medical School and assistant professor of art in the School of Art and Design); and
these faculty: devotion to inquiry, to students, and to understanding the unknown, is
University.
Vice President Ulaby next reviewed financial highlights of the research enterprise
for FY 1999. During this year, research expenditures totaled nearly one-half billion dollars
($499.7 million), an increase of 1.7 percent over FY 1998. Although expenditures have
risen steadily since FY 1990, he pointed out that the aggregate purchasing power of FY
1999 expenditures actually declined by about 1.5 percent compared to FY 1998. There
has been no change in the composition of research expenditures either by sponsoring
group or fields of study. He noted that federal funds account for the largest portion of
research expenditures (68.5 percent), and University funds the next largest (12.2 percent).
The remainder is divided among industry, other non-profit groups, foundations, trade and
professional associations, and other funding sources.
Life sciences accounted for the greatest expenditures by field of study (47.0
percent). Engineering accounted for 19.6 percent, and the remainder was divided
among social sciences (13.7 percent); physical sciences (9.3 percent); all other fields
(8.8 percent); and expenditures in support of all fields (1.6 percent).
Vice President Ulaby noted that based on FY 1997 data (the latest available), the
University of Michigan ranked first among the top ten universities and colleges in total
research and development expenditures.
Vice President Ulaby estimated that about 23,700 members of the University
community take part in a direct way in some kind of scholarly work. During FY 1999,
there were 4,650 sponsored projects, of which 4,400 were supported by external funds.
Excluding the hospitals and health centers, research expenditures comprised about 31
percent of total spending at the University. He noted that nationally less than 20 percent of
research proposals are funded, whereas the University's funding rate is almost 58 percent.


140




December Meeting, 1999


As a nonmonetary measure of the quality of the University's research output, Vice
President Ulaby reported that the University is ranked fifth in the nation in terms of
scientific impact and first among public institutions, by the Institute for Scientific
Information.
Vice President Ulaby described some of the challenges faced at both the individual
faculty level and the institutional level in making sure that the institution is positioned
to continue to succeed and contribute to the areas of research and scholarship. These
include focusing on entrepreneurial and commercialization activities at the faculty level
and recruitment and retention at the institutional level. Other challenges include all of
the activities involved in compliance with government regulations, including human
subject use and laboratory animal use.
Vice President Ulaby next described some recent examples of the transfer of
technology originally invented at the University, including laser technology,
ergonomics software, and a DNA "laboratory on a chip." He also noted that the Office
of the Vice President for Research is involved in government relations activities at the
state and federal levels.
He concluded by observing that the attention devoted to the life sciences during
the past year has generated a great sense of excitement and pride among the faculty by
demonstrating in a concrete way the commitment of the president and the
administration for the University of Michigan to remain among the top institutions in
the country.
MSA Biannual Report
The MSA Biannual Report was submitted without further comment.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the November 18-19
meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of investment and plant extension.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established for November 1999.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
reported that MCare HMO had received the highest ranking among all of the HMOs in
the state by the Greater Detroit Area Health Council. MCare HMO had also received
the only five-star award given by the organization.
Dearborn Campus. Interim Chancellor Klein reported that all building projects
on the Dearborn campus were proceeding according to schedule.
Voluntary Support. The Report on Voluntary Support for November 1999 was
submitted. President Bollinger noted that Vice President Feagin's absence was due to
the death of her mother earlier in the week.
Richard M. Adams, Encino, California
12,346 shares of FNBH Bancorp, Inc., common stock


141




December Meeting, 1999


for the Richard M. and Annabel V. W. Adams Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Richard and Annabel Adams Endowed Professorship...... 518,532
David D. Alger, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 20,000
Leon Allain, Atlanta, Georgia
40 shares of Allain and Associates, Inc., common stock
for the Leon and Gloria Allain Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning............................................... 54,688
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 70,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 79,968
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 21,500
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 184,829
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology, and the Colleges of
Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 120,281
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  15,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 22,981
Arthritis Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research................ 85,986
AstraZeneca, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Medical School...............................  12,000
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
in  memory  of Charles W. Attwood.............................................. 10,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
Ballard Medical Products, Draper, Utah
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
Bank One-Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for W UOM /W VGR..........................................................  6,000
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the
D epartm ent of Athletics......................................................  30,000
Cheryl Baumgartner, Moraga, California
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 10,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust
for the Marion E. and Robert N. Beebe Endowed Football Scholarship in the
D epartm ent of Athletics.....................................................  100,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program Fund in the Law School........ 50,000
Alfred Berkowitz Estate
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 25,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
253 shares of Merck & Company common stock and
63 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company common stock and a cash gift
for research and other support in the Medical School and for the Quantitative Measurement
Fund  in  the College of Engineering.............................................  26,278
Edmundo F. Berumen-Torres, Mexico City, Mexico
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 5,000
Leo R. Beus, Phoenix, Arizona
for the Leo Beus Fund in the Law  School........................................  50,000
Bickner Family Foundation, Sycamore, Illinois
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology................................ 50,000
Birmingham University of Michigan Alumnae Club, Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham  Alumnae Club Scholarship....................................  6,000
Michael D. Brian, Dearborn
for the Trauma Burn Camp Fund in the Medical School.............................. 5,000
Barry Briskin, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................. 10,000
James R. Browne, Dallas, Texas
for the Corporate Affiliates Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 5,000


142




December Meeting, 1999


Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop Fund in the School of Art and
Design and for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration........ 35,000
Elizabeth Cannon, Farmington Hills
250 shares of Dell Computer Corporation common stock
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 10,164
Donald B. Carlsen, Midland
110 shares of CBS Corporation common stock
for the Orthodontic Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.................... 5,677
Robert W. Chapman, Suttons Bay
for research in the Medical School............................................... 5,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Ramon, California
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration....... 14,100
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 17,000
Comerica Bank, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 15,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the Joyce R. Piper Piano Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 10,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Arts of Citizenship Program, the America Reads Program, and the University
M usical Society...........................................................  185,880
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................  10,000
Laura J. Currie, Midland
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 7,500
William M. Cutler, Vero Beach, Florida
800 shares of Servicemaster Company common stock
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  10,250
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, for the
Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering, and for the Chrysler
Corporation Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment................ 33,000
J. S. Darville, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
for the Pamela J. Bryant Accounting Scholarship. School of Business Administration...... 25,000
Carla M. Dehmlow Trust
for the Dehmlow Funds in History and Political Science in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
Albin G. Dembowski, Bloomfield, Connecticut
1,890 shares of PECO Energy common stock and
800 shares of Unicom Corporation common stock
for the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Endowment........... 102,915
John L. Denniston, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Jack and Jerry Weidenbach Book Fund in the University Library................ 10,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Fund in the School of Business Administration and
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Law Scholarship in the Law School.............. 10,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship Fund and other support in the College
of  Engineering.............................................................  31,000
Domino's Pizza, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop Fund in the School of Art and Design.. 10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  13,900
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
4,065 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 501,519
James S. Duesenberry, Belmont, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Ecolab Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Terrence A. and Ruth F. Elkes Merit Scholarship in the Law School............ 250,000
Enmark Systems, Ann Arbor
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 5,000


143




December Meeting, 1999


Exxon Corporation, Irving, Texas
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship and other support in the School
of Business Administration.................................................... 6,000
Dorothy Gittleman Feldman, Portland, Oregon
130 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Robert S. Feldman Endowment in the Law School, and for support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 10,376
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, for support in the School of Business Administration, for the
Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship in the Medical School, and
for other support at the University of Michigan.................................... 19,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Bur Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School........ 400,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Trauma Burn Camp Fund in the Medical School.............................. 5,000
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research in the Medical School............................................. 179,355
Stuart D. Freedman, New York, New York
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,000
Clarice Freud Trust
for support in the School of Social W ork........................................ 354,931
Thomas W. Gaffield Trust
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 11,070
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the College of Engineering and for human factors research in the
Transportation  Research  Institute............................................... 40,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 79,075
Robert and Jan Ginsberg Philanthropic Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Edward Ginsberg Center for Community Service and Learning Endowment...... 100,000
Rosalie and Edward Ginsberg Philanthropic Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Edward Ginsberg Center for Community Service and Learning Endowment...... 200,000
William B. Ginsberg, London, England
36,000 shares of NTL, Inc., common stock
for the Edward Ginsberg Center for Community Service and Learning Endowment..... 3,382,875
Goldman, Sachs & Company, New York, New York
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts...... 53,468
Charles S. Goldsby, Detroit
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............ 15,000
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Humanities Institute Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the School of Education.......................................... 93,659
Michael R. Hallman, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Anne Vance Hatcher, Ann Arbor
2,815 shares of Tecumseh Products Company common stock
for the Harlan and Anne Hatcher Endowment in the University Library................ 101,544
Henry Ford Health System, Dearborn
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of Public Health..... 15,330
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for research in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts............. 36,124
Hiller Associates, L.L.C. II, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 50,000
Richard L. Hirsch Foundation, New York, New York
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology................................ 10,000
Homeland Foundation, Laguna Beach, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 20,000
Mrs. George J. Huebner, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  31,000
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Education........................... 5,300
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research  in the School of Public Policy.......................................  39,500


144




December Meeting, 1999


International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Information and
or research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 294,000
International Society of Barristers, Ann Arbor
Ffor the Craig Spangenberg Oral Advocacy Fund in the Law School.................. 25,000
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
80 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Isaacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,545
Itochu International, Inc., New York, New York
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 10,000
Jane W. Jackson, Fort Collins, Colorado
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
RobertF E. Jensen, Fort Wayne, Indiana
or support in the Medical School................................................ 5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, the Institute of Gerontology, and the
Institute for Social Research................................................. 144,895
Luella V. Karay, Elkhart, Indiana
Ffor chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering, in memory of
Alexander X. Karay......................................................... 10,000
Larry Kirschbaum, New York, New York
600 shares of Amazon.com, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 44,794
Gene G. Knapp Estate
125 shares of various corporate common stock
898 mutual fund shares and a cash gift
for the Gene Knapp Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Pharmacy and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...... 99,998
Jane Knott, Durango, Colorado
Ffor the Jane K. Knott Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the James E. Knott Professorship in the College of Engineering.................... 450,000
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Foundation Professorship of Korean Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................... 299,988
John A. Kucharski, Howell
for the Trauma Burn Camp Fund in the Medical School and for the University
M usical  Society............................................................  15,500
Frank and Mary Lamberson Foundation, Winter Park, Florida
for the Frank A. Lamberson Distinguished Lectureship in the Medical School............ 25,000
Arthur J. Laskin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
808 shares of Tyco International common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 33,153
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 31,175
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work and the Institute for Social Research.......... 332,000
Jessie C. MacBain Estate
4,272 shares of Mobil Corporation common stock and
400 shares of DTE Energy Company common stock
for the Stuart and Jane Sheill Scholarship in the School of Music..................... 429,156
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research  in the School of Education.........................................  106,587
Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 40,000
Mervyns of California, Hayward, California
for Career Planning and Placement support....................................... 10,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School........................... 130,000
Mexican Town Restaurant, Inc., Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  15,551
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, St. Clair Shores
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.......... 50,000
Theodosia W. Milkton Estate
for the Howard and Cora Wiest Scholarship in the Law School....................... 44,046
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School........................ 8,000
David Moscow-Linda Moscow Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the David and Linda Moscow Prize Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................  10,000


145




December Meeting, 1999


Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for  W U O M...............................................................  50,000
James H. Mulchay, St. Petersburg, Florida
700 shares of Bristol-Myers-Squibb Company common stock
for the Don Lund and Ray Fisher Baseball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.... 53,222
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Tucson, Arizona
for support in the Medical School..............................................  15,000
William K. Najjar, Kentwood
150 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for support in the  School of Dentistry..........................................  14,269
Nathan Family Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois;
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 24,999
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 8,750
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 42,142
Nebraska Book Company, Ann Arbor
for WUOM/WVGR.......................................................... 5,428
James C. Neuhauser, Irvine, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in the Medical School................. 15,000
Nola Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................  5,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
John Nuveen & Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,331
Owens Coming Shared Services Center, Charleston, West Virginia
fr the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Roslyn Braeman Payne, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  15,000
Elliot S. Pearlman, Chicago, Illinois
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School of Business
A dm inistration..............................................................  5,000
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program and other support in the
School of Business Administration..............................................  7,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the M. Eng Pharmaceutical Engineering Program Fund in the College of Engineering..... 10,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for em ployee  m atching  gifts................................................... 21,011
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 5,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,500
Public Radio International, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for W UOM /W VGR.........................................................  12,500
P. Anthony Ridder, San Jose, California
833 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 49,355
John H. and Anne W. Roberts Trust
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
Mrs. Irving Rose, Bingham Farms
for the Audrey Rose Fund in the School of Music................................. 100,000
Harold Rosenn, Kingston, Pennsylvania
200 shares of M&T Corporation common stock
for the Harold and Sallyanne F. Rosenn Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School........................................ 99,575
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School................................  5,500
Frederick E. Schmid, Dexter
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Harry R. Schick, Jr. Estate
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  15,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D., Trust
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 15,000


146




December Meeting, 1999


Alene M. Smith, Sarasota, Florida
115 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Allan F. Smith Endowed Scholarship and other support in the School of Music...... 9,994
David H. Smith, Irvine, California
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 100,000
Smith & Nephew, Inc., Largo, Florida
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School................. 35,000
Sonkin Family Foundation, West Bloomfield
for support in the School of Dentistry, the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......................... 6,500
Raymond B. Sowers Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 13,500
Haley Sperling Memorial Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Haley H. Sperling Memorial Scholarship in the Colleges of Engineering
and Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................ 15,000
Augustus P. Stager III, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 5,000
Stimsonite Corporation, Niles, Illinois
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
100 shares of McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1931 Engineers Scholarship in the College of Engineering............... 5,866
Stryker Leibinger, Kalamazoo
for the Heal the Children Fund in the Medical School................................ 6,000
Jeffrey E. Susskind, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Jack D. Sweet, Richardson, Texas
for the Ralph W. Aigler Professorship in the Law School........................... 450,000
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
100 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Michigan League and for the University
of M ichigan  of Cleveland  Scholarship........................................... 10,647
T A P Holdings, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 9,500
Christopher T. Tamer, Howell
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 10,000
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Tilles Family Foundation, Woodbury, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library....... 5,000
Jeanette Tinker Trust
for the Mary A. Tinker, MD, Surgical Education and Research Fund in the Medical School... 100,000
Ruth L. Townsend, Farmington Hills
for the Lemuel L. Laing Fellowship in the School of Business Administration
and for the Communication Disorders Center in the Medical School.................... 7,273
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  34,016
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support in  the  School of M usic............................................... 5,000
R. Vander Lind & Son, Grand Rapids
for the Save-A-Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School.......................... 8,000
James A. Van Sweden, Washington, DC
125 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the James A. Van Sweden Endowed Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning......................................  10,969
Edward G. Voss, Ann Arbor
for the Edward G. Voss Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 15,005
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology
Endowment in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 250,500
Emily T. Wheeler, East Tawas
3,250 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Wheeler Fund in the Clements Library.................................... 100,677
Brenda S. Wickett, Dexter
272 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock and
100 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the Ernest W. Wickett Men's Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 29,277


147




December Meeting, 1999


Brenda S. Wickett Trust
for the Ernest W. Wickett Men's Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.... 5,000
Robert O. Winder, Phoenix, Arizona
100 shares of Intel Corporation common stock for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 7,707
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 10,000
Hugh M. Wright, Battle Creek
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 20,000
Kirk D. Wuepper Estate
for the Kirk D. Wuepper Charitable Reminder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Kirk D. Wuepper Professorship of Investigative Dermatology in the
M edical School...........................................................  284,737
Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 10,000
John B. Yoder, Butler, Pennsylvania
for the John B. Yoder Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
College of Engineering and the Institute of Humanities............................. 100,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School........................... 100,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
A. J. Rose Manufacturing Company, Cleveland, Ohio
blanking material, clamping material, and a die for the Stamping Lab
Lowell M. Weiner, Ann Arbor
A computer and related accessories for WCBN
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Barbara Mattison Carr, Ann Arbor           Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor                   Martin E. Letts, Ann Arbor
Alex Fridman, Livonia                      George A. Meschke, Dearborn
Bruce W. Frier, Ann Arbor                  Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Robert G. Kelly, Plymouth                  Josh Ward, Somerville, Massachusetts
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor called attention to the recommendation for the
appointment of Karen Wixson as dean of the School of Education.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
LiPuma, John J., M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
December 17, 1999
Page, Scott E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2000
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 2000
Wolfe, Richard A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology


148




December Meeting, 1999


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Birmingham, William P., Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, January 1, 2000 -May 31, 2007
Koch, Larry W., Acting Chair, Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Criminal Justice, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, six month term, January 1, 2000
Paulson, William R., Acting Chair, Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2000
Studlar, Gaylyn, Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, December 1, 1999
Wakefield, Gregory H., Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, December 1, 1999
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective January 1, 2000
Establishing Professorships
Goff Smith Co-Directorship, Tauber Manufacturing Institute (TMI), School of Business Administration
and College of Engineering
Morton S. And Henrietta K. Sellner Professorship in Human Genetics, Medical School, five year
renewable term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Bass, Hyman, Roger C. Lyndon Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, five year term, September 1, 1999
Leith, Emmett N., Schlumberger Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering, three year term,
January 1, 2000
Pollock, Stephen M., Herrick Professor of Manufacturing, College of Engineering, five year term,
January 1, 2000
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Hollenberg, Paul F., Maurice H. Seevers Collegiate Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School, five
year term, July 1, 1999
Voorhees, John J., Duncan 0. and Ella M. Poth Distinguished Professor of Dermatology, Medical
School, five year term, January 20, 2000
Other Transactions
Thomas, James S., Associate Vice President for Development and Alumni Relations, University of
Michigan Health System, Offices of the Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs and the Vice
President for Development, January 1, 2000
Wixson, Karen K., from Interim Dean to Dean, School of Education, five year term, January 1, 2000
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beleh, Mustapha A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, one year term, November 1,
1999
Creekmore, Phillip M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
one year term, September 1, 1999
Fliegel, Jonathan E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, two year term, October 1, 1999
Fredricks, Jennifer A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Group Dynamics/Education, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000


149




December Meeting, 1999


Glover, William J., M. Arch., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, four year term, January 1, 2000
Hanlon-Lundberg, Kathleen M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Medical School, one year term, January 3, 2000
Holmes, William E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, four month term, September 1, 1999
Mancuso, Peter, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,
three year term, January 1, 2000
McAuliffe, Mary, M. Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Mellerick-Dressler, Dervla M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, one year term,
October 1, 1999
Spadoni, Virginia T., Pharm. D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
November 29, 1999- August 31, 2002
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Curatti, Patricia R., M.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, one year term, July 1, 1999 (previously reported as Lecturer in Physical
Therapy)
Golec, Stanislaw, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, one year term,
October 1, 1999 (previously reported as Lecturer in Psychiatry)
Kasten, Steven J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, September 15, 1999 -August 31, 2000 (previously reported as Lecturer in Surgery)
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Eisenman, David J., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School (previously reported as
July 1, 1999)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, five year term, September 1, 1999
Fredrickson, Barbara L., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Kannan, Srimathi, from Lecturer in Environmental Health and Industrial Health to Assistant Professor of
Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, three year term, January 1, 2000
Knaack, Brenda M., from Lecturer in Nursing to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Nursing, UM-Flint
School of Health Professions and Studies, one year term, September 1, 1999
Rodda, Becky J., from Lecturer in Physical Therapy to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical
Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies, one year term, July 1, 1999
Schaal, Patty G., from Lecturer in Nursing to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Nursing, UM-Flint School
of Health Professions and Studies, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Tippen, Maureen P., from Lecturer in Nursing to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Nursing, UM-Flint
School of Health Professions and Studies, four month term, September 1, 1999
Vivas, Jose L., from Lecturer in Dentistry to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, three year term, October 1, 1999
Wang, Timothy S., from Lecturer in Dermatology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology,
Medical School, one year term, September 1, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Fortner, Richard W., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of
Management, four month term, September 1, 2000


150




December Meeting, 1999


Gomberg, Edith S., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, December 1, 1998-October 31, 2000
Paul, Ara G., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, one year
term, January 1, 2000
Schwartz, Edward M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, four month term,
January 1, 2000
Shappirio, David G., Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, January 1, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 4, 1999 -March 5, 2000
Gluck, Peter R., Chair and Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Hortsch, Michael, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, one year term, September 1, 1999
Hunt, Nancy R., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, duty off campus, January
1-May 31, 2000
Koenen, Ludwig, Herbert C. Youtie Distinguished University Professor of Papyrology and Professor of
Papyrology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 2000
Laing, Jersey, Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Policy,
sabbatical leave, four month term, September 1, 1999
Merion, Robert M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, six
month term, July 1, 1999
Mudge, Trevor N., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Ross, Michael L., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Stark, Joan S., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 2000
Tentler, Thomas N., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1999, and retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2000
Thomas, Charles B., Jr., Chair and Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Tsai, Luke Y., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Wilfong, Terry G., Assistant Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, and Assistant Professor of
Egyptology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31,
2000
Young, Alford A., Jr., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, four month term,
September 1, 1999
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Hughes, Diane O., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts (previously reported as duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Kalter, Neil M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, October 22, 1999
Resigned
Bramson, Candace R., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 24, 1999
Dhatt, Marjeet S., Assistant Professor of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
December 31, 1999


151




December Meeting, 1999


Hamby, David M., Assistant Professor of Environmental Health Services, School of Public Health,
December 31, 1999
Persson, Christine, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 8, 1999
Sharp, Michelle L., Lecturer I in English Composition and Lecturer I in Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, November 13, 1999
Retired
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 1999
Neidhardt, Frederick C., Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, Medical School, December 31, 1999
Roloff, Deitrich W., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 1999
Term Completed
Van Hoek, Karen A., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted retirement memoirs for
nine faculty members, including Frederick Neidhardt, former vice president for
research. Regent McGowan observed that Vice President Neidhardt had brought to his
position and succeeded in conveying a sense of enthusiasm about the research
enterprise that was quite extraordinary.
C. William Colburn, Ph.D., associate professor of communication studies, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1998, after a most productive career as a teacher
and researcher.
A native of Illinois, Professor Colburn completed his B.S. degree at Illinois
Wesleyan University in 1961. He received his M.A. degree from Bowling Green State
University in 1962 and his Ph.D. degree from Indiana University in 1967.
In 1965, Professor Colbum joined the University of Michigan as an assistant
professor of speech; he was promoted to associate professor in 1970. Professor Colbum
taught courses in organizational communication and directed numerous doctoral
dissertations.
Professor Colburn became the assistant director of the Alumni Association on
July 1, 1984; he was promoted to associate director on April 1, 1988, and held that
position until June 30, 1995.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming C. William Colburn associate professor emeritus of communication studies.
Phillip A. Fellin, Ph.D., professor of social work, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Fellin received his A.B. degree in sociology from St. Benedict's College
in Atchison, Kansas, in 1953 and his M.S.W. degree from St. Louis University in 1957.
He earned his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1959 and
1962, respectively, and joined the University of Michigan School of Social Work as an
associate professor and director of field instruction in 1965. He was promoted to
professor of social work in 1968. In 1969, Professor Fellin was appointed assistant
dean and in 1971 was named dean of the school, a post that he held for 10 years.
Professor Fellin attained national prominence as a social work educator and
scholar. Beginning in 1975, he served a three-year term as chair of the Commission for
Accreditation of the Council on Social Work Education. He systematized field
instruction and created a much closer relationship between classroom content and
students' field activities. He increased the use of social science content and research in
social work education to the benefit of his students. His research and scholarly writing
focused on issues of policy, community-based care, the evaluation of diversity within


152




December Meeting, 1999


schools of social work and equal opportunities for women in social work education. His
most recent work has been in issues of multiculturalism, its definition and
conceptualization.
In addition to his dean appointment, Professor Fellin assumed leadership roles in
other capacities. He was elected to represent the School of Social Work on the
University of Michigan Senate Assembly. Within the School of Social Work, he served
on the administration curriculum program, casework curriculum program, honors
committee, and practice skill training task force. In 1981, he was chair of the advisory
committee to the executive board of the University of Michigan Children's Center. He
was known as a superior and simulating teacher who was able to bring together
concepts and research findings for his students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Phillip A.
Fellin professor emeritus of social work.
Gary W. Fowler, Ph.D., the George Willis Pack Professor of Forestry and
professor of biometry in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, will retire
from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
A native of California, Professor Fowler received his B.S., M.F., M.A., and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of California at Berkeley in 1961, 1965, 1967, and 1969,
respectively. He joined the School of Natural Resources and Environment (SNRE) as an
assistant professor in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor in 1972 and professor
in 1979. He served as director of Camp Filibert Roth from 1984-86 and as chair of the
Resource Ecology and Management Concentration from 1988-91. He was named the
George Willis Pack Professor of Forestry in 1989.
Professor Fowler taught courses in natural resource statistics, data analysis, sampling,
advanced statistical techniques, nonparametric statistics, and natural resource
measurements. He received a University of Michigan Distinguished Teaching Award in
1973 and a SNRE Faculty Recognition Award in 1978. In 1996, he received the
Outstanding Faculty Award given by SNRE students. He was a member of over 160
graduate student thesis and dissertation committees and chaired 11 Ph.D. and 42 Master's
Degree committees.
He is known for his use of Monte Carlo simulation in investigating the statistical
properties of estimators of natural resource population parameters. He investigated the
errors associated with various sequential sampling procedures and developed a
truncated sequential t-test. Professor Fowler also developed sampling procedures for
estimating insect populations and their damage, examined the effects of statistical edge
effect bias in estimating forest stand parameters, developed new volume and
volume-basal ratio equations for tree species in Michigan, and investigated the
statistical properties of various measures of species diversity. He authored over 80
scientific papers.
Professor Fowler worked with the Michigan DNR in developing forest inventory
procedures and in examining the effects of stream habitat improvement. He served on a
number of University-wide and SNRE committees and was faculty parliamentarian for
over 25 years. Professor Fowler was a highly valued statistical consultant across the
University.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Gary W. Fowler the
George Willis Pack Professor Emeritus of Forestry and professor emeritus of biometry.


153




December Meeting, 1999


Ward D. Getty, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer science
in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on December 31,
1999.
Professor Getty received his B.S.E.E. (1955), B.S. (Math) (1955), and M.S.E.E.
(1956) degrees from the University of Michigan and his Sc.D. degree in 1962 from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He served as assistant professor at MIT from
1962-66, during which time he was also appointed a Ford fellow. He joined the faculty
of the University of Michigan as associate professor of electrical engineering in 1966
and was promoted to professor in 1973.
Professor Getty has been recognized for the breadth of his interests and
achievements in a field where the pressure toward narrow specialization is intense. His
research on plasma physics led to close collaboration with faculty in the Department of
Nuclear Engineering and his early work was cited as a model of interdepartmental
cooperation. He is internationally recognized for his work on radio frequency wave
interactions with magnetized plasma. He has made important contributions to the field
of plasma-fusion research by his experimental investigations of fundamental processes
in plasma wave propagation and heating. He has served as a consultant to numerous
companies.
Professor Getty was first recognized for excellence in teaching in 1968, less than
two years after he joined the faculty.  He received the departmental Teaching
Excellence Award in 1997. He was an extremely versatile teacher, covering a wide
range of topics including energy conversion, communication electronics, digital
computer engineering, and circuit analysis and electronics. Professor Getty has also
made significant service contributions to the department, the College of Engineering,
and the University, serving in a wide variety of roles and on numerous committees. He
received the departmental Service Excellence Award in 1994.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Ward D. Getty professor
emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
Irwin J. Goldstein, Ph.D., professor of biological chemistry, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Goldstein received his B.A. degree from Syracuse University in 1951 and
his Ph.D. degree from the University of Minnesota in 1956. From 1961-65, Professor
Goldstein was an assistant professor of biochemistry at the State University of New York at
Buffalo. He joined the University of Michigan Medical School as associate professor of
biological chemistry in 1965; he was promoted to professor in 1972. From 1986-99,
Professor Goldstein served as associate dean for research and graduate studies at the
Medical School. This was a period of enormous growth in research funding, interest in the
development of technology transfer, and the strengthening of graduate programs. He
helped establish the Biomedical Core Facilities, the underpinning of the University's
research enterprise.
As a research investigator, Professor Goldstein is known for his work on the
isolation, characterization, and biomedical application of a class of carbohydrate binding
proteins known as lectins. He enjoys an international reputation for his contributions to
this field, encompassed in 250 scientific papers, books, and book chapters. Allied studies
include research on carbohydrate cleaving and synthesizing enzymes and the involvement
of complex carbohydrates in cellular adhesion.  Professor Goldstein was recently
informed by the National Institutes of Health that his research project,
"Protein-Carbohydrate Interaction," a grant he has held continuously for 35 years, has
been renewed for an additional five years.


154




December Meeting, 1999


In 1993, the American Chemical Society recognized his contributions by presenting
Professor Goldstein with the C. S. Hudson Award, an international award in carbohydrate
chemistry. He was similarly recognized by the Medical School's Biomedical Research
Council with the award of the Distinguished Faculty Lectureship in Biomedical Research
in 1988. Other awards include the Kaiser-Permenente Preclinical Teaching Award from
the Medical Class of 1980, a University of Michigan Distinguished Faculty Achievement
Award, and an Outstanding Achievement Award from the University of Minnesota.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by
naming Irwin J. Goldstein professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
William R. D. Martin, professor of business administration in the School of
Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1999, following 23 years of service.
Professor Martin received his B.A. degree in 1956 from McMaster University in
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, and his M.B.A. degree in 1958 from the University of
Chicago. Prior to his appointment at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Professor
Martin served as the assistant director, associate director, and director of the
Management Center at the University of Michigan-Wayne State University Institute of
Labor and Industrial Relations.  Professor Martin joined the University of
Michigan-Dearborn campus in 1976 as dean and professor of management. He served
as dean until 1985.
Numerous leading companies, such as General Motors, Owens-Illinois, Dow
Chemicals, AT&T, U. S. Steel, Kent Moore, Detroit Edison, ESSO, and
Massey-Ferguson have called on the business expertise of Professor Martin in the
development of marketing, sales, and executive development programs. Professor
Martin has also served on the boards of many companies.
As an administrator, Professor Martin played a critical role in the progress of the
School of Management. As faculty, Professor Martin was among the most admired and
well-recognized teachers. His pedagogical accomplishments will long be remembered,
both by the School of Management and by hundreds of his students.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar for his dedicated service by naming
William R. D. Martin professor emeritus of business administration.
Frederick C. Neidhardt, Ph.D., the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1999.
Professor Neidhardt received his B.A. degree summa cum laude from Kenyon
College in 1952 and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1956. Advanced
study and research was undertaken at the Pasteur Institute (Paris), the University
Institute of Microbiology (Copenhagen), and the University of Regensburg (Germany).
From 1961-70, Professor Neidhardt was a faculty member in the biological sciences
department at Purdue University. He joined the University of Michigan in 1970 as
professor and chair of the Department of Microbiology. He remained chair of the
department for the next thirteen years. From 1991-93, he served as associate dean for
faculty affairs in the Medical School and in 1993 he was named associate vice president
for research. He served as acting vice president for research from July 1996-August
1997, interim vice president for research from September-December 1997, and vice
president for research from January-December 1998.
His research focused on the molecular physiology of growth of the bacterium
Escherichia coli. He introduced the use of temperature sensitive mutants to study


155




December Meeting, 1999


regulation of bacterial genes with growth essential functions, discovered the bacterial
heat shock response, and initiated the first global studies of the proteome of E. coli.
Beside producing research papers and respected textbooks, he served as editor-in-chief
of the definitive treatise, Escherichia coli and Salmonella. Cellular and Molecular
Biology.
Professor Neidhardt's honors include the Eli Lilly & Company Award in
Bacteriology and Immunology, the Alexander von Humboldt Senior U.S. Scientist
Award (Germany), membership in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
election to the presidency of the American Society for Microbiology, and honorary
degrees conferred by Purdue University, Kenyon College, and the University of Umea,
Sweden. He was named the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology in 1989.
The Regents now salute this dedicated researcher, teacher, and administrator for his
contributions and service by naming Frederick C. Neidhardt the Frederick G. Novy
Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology.
William B. Ribbens, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer
science and professor of aerospace engineering in the College of Engineering, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Ribbens received his B.S.E.E. degree in 1960, his M.S.E.E. degree in 1961,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1965, all from the University of Michigan. From 1962-69, he was
an assistant research engineer, associate research engineer, and research engineer. He was
appointed assistant professor in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor in 1972 and
professor in 1993. He was appointed professor of aerospace engineering in 1995.
Professor Ribbens' research most recently has focused on electronic systems and
devices that are applicable to all vehicles. His particular emphasis has been on engine
control applications, mathematical models for drivetrain systems, computer assisted
diagnostics for electronically controlled engines, and failure detection systems. His
work in these areas has substantially advanced the art of automotive electronics, and he
is recognized as a world leader in this area.
During his professional career, Professor Ribbens served on the Hitachi Science
Board, a distinction given to few U.S. academics. He was also a visiting scientist at the
Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, General Motors Technical Center, and the Technical
University of Berlin.
Within the department, Professor Ribbens worked with many students on individual
and group projects and served as faculty advisor to the student Society of Automotive
Engineers organization. Students speak very highly of the important practical experience
they gained in these projects and through their association with Professor Ribbens. He
has also taught many graduate and undergraduate EECS courses over the years, and he
developed a number of new courses related to electronic systems. He has served as
advisor to numerous Ph.D. students, and several of his former students have become
national leaders in automotive electronics.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished contributions by
naming William B. Ribbens professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science and professor emeritus of aerospace engineering.
Dietrich W. Roloff, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in
the Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
A native of Germany, Dr. Roloff received his M.D. degree from the University of
Gottingen in 1963 and completed his postdoctoral internship and residency at the


156




December Meeting, 1999


University of Michigan in 1968. He had a fellowship in pediatric pulmonary disease
and physiology at the University of Michigan from 1968-70 and in neonatology at McGill
University in 1970-71. He joined the faculty as an instructor in 1968 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1973, associate professor in 1978, and professor in 1984.
Dr. Roloffs career has combined the subspecialties of neonatology and
pulmonology. He was responsible for establishing the Holden Neonatal Intensive Care
Unit and Perinatal Research Laboratories, one of the first NICUs in existence. He has
made contributions in the areas of apnea, cystic fibrosis, and asthma and founded the
hospitals' pediatric home ventilator program. Dr. Roloffs research has focused on
management of neonatal respiratory illness and has contributed to our understanding of
fetal lung development.  Other research areas have included development of a
microprocessor-based apnea monitor and the effects of extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation on newborns.
Within the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Dr. Roloff has
directed Newborn Services, the Division of Pulmonary Diseases, and the Apnea
Consultation Team. A skilled and popular teacher, Dr. Roloff has served on dissertation
committees in the School of Education and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
He has supervised and trained many pediatric house officers and has shared his extensive
clinical knowledge with medical students.
Dr. Roloff has been active in the Washtenaw County Chapter of the National
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and has been a director for the Trails Edge Camp for
Ventilator-Dependent Children. As an exceptional service to the state of Michigan, Dr.
Roloff founded and continues a semiannual pediatric pulmonary disease clinic on the
northern coast of the Upper Peninsula.
In recognition of his distinguished and productive career, the Regents now name
Dietrich W. Roloff professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents
this month.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by
Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Cash Overlay and Transition Manager
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of First Quadrant, L.P. as a cash overlay and
transition manager for the University's invested assets.
Large Capitalization Domestic Equity Manager.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Franklin Portfolio Associates as a large
capitalization domestic equity manager with an initial funding of up to $200 million.
McKay Tower
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the sale of McKay Tower in downtown Grand Rapids and the
dissolution of the Frank D. McKay Realty Company, as described in the Regents


157




December Meeting, 1999


Communication. The assets of Frank D. McKay Realty will be transferred to the Frank
D. McKay and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Foundation endowment fund.
Regent Deitch arrived at this point, at 2:55 p.m.
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building Exterior Infrastructure
Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building
Exterior Infrastructure Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Hatcher Graduate Library North Window Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Hatcher Graduate Library North Window Replacement
Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Perry Building Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Perry Building Renovation Project, including the design of
the addition, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding the construction
contracts, providing the project remains within the budget.
Replacement of North and South Elevators in the Church Street Parking
Structure
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved replacement of the north and south elevators in the Church
Street Parking Structure, as described in the Regents Communication.
Payment for the Services of Evelyn Mohalski
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for graphic art services performed by Evelyn Mohalski
for the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology. Because Ms. Mohalski was a University
of Michigan employee when she performed the service for the University, this
arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.  The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Medical School's Center for Biologic Nanotechnology and Evelyn Mohalski, an
adjunct lecturer of the University.
2.   The service provided is a Viewgraph presentation in September 1999 for a total of
$275.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Evelyn Mohalski is a University of
Michigan employee.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Automobile National
Heritage Area Partnership, Inc. (ANHA)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Automobile National Heritage Area Partnership, Inc. (ANHA), under which ANHA
would sponsor a project at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Because Edward
Bagale is both a University of Michigan employee and a board member of ANHA, this
158




December Meeting, 1999


agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.    Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and ANHA.
2.    The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
is eighteen months, at a total cost of $213,190.
3.    Mr. Bagale has no pecuniary interest or other involvement in the project.
Research Agreements between the University of Michigan and Artann
Laboratories, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved research agreements between the University of Michigan and
Artann Laboratories, Inc. (Artann), under which Artann would sponsor three projects at
the University. Because Stanislav Emelianov is a University of Michigan employee and
has an ownership interest in Artann, and his wife, Noune Sarvazyan, is CEO of Artann,
these agreements fall under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.    Parties to the agreements are the University of Michigan and Artann Laboratories, Inc.
2.    The terms of the agreements conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project "New Screening Methods for Early Detection of Breast Cancer" is 24
months at a total cost of $159,986. The period of performance for the project "The
Mechanical Imaging of the Prostrate" is 24 months at a cost of $20,441. The period of
performance for the project "Medical Diagnosis Based on Mechanical Properties of
Biological Tissue" is 14 months at a total cost of $10,000.
3.    Stanislov Emelianov's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Artann
Laboratories, Inc. He has no involvement in the two Medical School projects and is
organizationally distant from the principal investigators of the two College of
Engineering projects.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Princeton University
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Princeton University which will allow the continued participation of Dr. David
Srolovitz, now of Princeton University, in a project begun while he was at the
University of Michigan. Because Dr. Srolovitz is also an adjunct professor at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.    Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Princeton University.
2.    Under terms of the agreement, the University of Michigan will issue a subcontract to
Princeton University in the amount of $156,535 for a period of eighteen months.
Terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
3.    Dr. Srolovitz's appointment at the University of Michigan runs through May 2000 and
is without compensation.
Forest Avenue Parking Structure
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a request for authorization to enter into
an agreement with the City of Ann Arbor to jointly develop and operate the Forest
Avenue Parking Structure. He noted that the structure would provide almost 300
parking spaces for the University, and that pending Regental approval, the proposal is
to be submitted for approval by the Ann Arbor City Council on December 20, 1999.
Regent Maynard moved authorization for the executive vice president and chief
financial officer to enter into an agreement with the City of Ann Arbor to jointly


159




December Meeting, 1999


develop and operate the Forest Avenue Parking Structure and approve the budget, as
described in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent McGowan inquired about the practices for space allocation between the
University and the general public. Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that two
types of parking would be available: short-term parking and long-term parking. The
short-term parking would be commingled between the University and the city, available
on a first-come, first-serve basis to anyone regardless of University affiliation. The
longer-term parking would be handled with permits from either the city or the
University. He noted that whether University spaces would be available to the general
public during evening and weekend hours remains to be determined, depending on
utilization by University permit holders.
There being no further discussion, the vote was then taken and the motion was
approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Environmental Interpretive Center
Interim Chancellor Klein submitted for approval a revised budget and award of a
construction contract for the UM-Dearborn Environmental Interpretive Center. He
noted that six bids had been received, and all were over budget. The recommendation is
for approval of the lowest bidder. He noted that the difference between the previously
approved budget and the current recommendation has been set aside from campus
funds. No additional money will be requested from the state.
Regent Newman moved approval of the revised budget for the UM-Dearborn
Environmental Interpretive Center and authorization for award of the construction
contract to F.J. Jones & Company, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Maynard seconded the motion.
Regent Newman pointed out that this is the second time, recently, that a revised
budget has been necessary for a project on the Dearborn campus. Executive Vice
President Kasdin agreed with her observation, stating that from his experience since his
arrival he had concluded that more support to the Dearborn campus for the preparation
of capital projects was needed. It was decided to bring the current project forward
because an acceptable quality level has now been achieved.
There followed a discussion about why the bids came in higher than the cost
estimates. Executive Vice President Kasdin stated that, in part, the estimates were
based on construction drawings that were not as complete as they should have been and
that this situation has since been rectified. Regent Newman expressed concern about
higher costs being necessary due to substandard estimating procedures, noting that she
does not believe that students should be penalized because of this. She wondered
whether there is any liability involved.
Vice President Wilbanks observed that state officials have raised a similar point
about capital projects that come to them with cost estimates that have not been fully
articulated. To discontinue the practice of having to come back with revised estimates
of project costs, the state has now determined that projects can be submitted, but the
appropriation will not be fully authorized until it is resubmitted with more precise cost
estimates. This change has been made in part because of the time lag and resulting cost
increases that occur between the time capital projects are initiated and the funds
appropriated, and in part because better information can inform the appropriations


160




December Meeting, 1999


process as to the true costs. The project in question was submitted under the previous
process. Executive Vice President Kasdin concurred, and said he was satisfied that the
process has now been improved.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger commented on the accomplishments of a number of faculty
and staff members over the past month and highlighted current and upcoming events on
campus. He also reported the deaths of two emeritus faculty members.
President Bollinger observed that the figures cited in recent newspaper reports
about a decline in minority enrollment are not entirely accurate, as the drop in
enrollment has not been as great as indicated in the reports. Nevertheless, he said that
any drop in minority enrollment is of concern and the University wants to understand
what is causing it. He said that the enrollment drop has no bearing on the University's
long-standing efforts to achieve racial, ethnic, or any other kind of diversity.
Executive Vice President Omenn reported that the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute had recently awarded the University of Michigan a grant of over $4 million in
the area of bioinformatics.
Public Comments
No Public Comments session was held, since nobody had signed up to address the
Board of Regents.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:35 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for January 20-21, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


161




JANUARY MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 20, 2000
The Regents convened at 3:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco,, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Deitch arrived at 3:30 p.m. Chancellor Mestas was absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order, noting that the meeting had been
preceded by a tour of the Kresge Medical Research Buildings.
Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby announced that over the coming year, faculty members
would be invited to Regents' Meetings to make ten-minute presentations on a major
research endeavor. During 2001, presentations would be made by graduate and
undergraduate students about their research.
Today's presenter was Dr. James Ferrara, professor of internal medicine, professor
of pediatrics and communicable diseases, and director of the combined Pediatric and
Adult Bone Marrow Transplant Center in the University of Michigan Comprehensive
Cancer Center. Vice President Ulaby noted that Dr. Ferrara arrived at the University of
Michigan in December 1998 and directs the bone marrow transplant research and
clinical programs.
Dr. Ferrara described the work of the bone marrow transplantation program,
noting that its mission is to create the state of the art in bone marrow transplantation
through innovation and collaboration. The program combines clinical care, basic
research, translational research, and education. It was noted that Dr. Ferrara came to
the University of Michigan following 15 years at Harvard University. He said the
major difference between the two institutions is that collaboration is easier at the
University of Michigan.
Motion to meet in nonformal session
Regent Maynard moved that the formal session of the meeting be adjourned and a
nonformal session be commenced for the purpose of considering a personnel evaluation.
Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents met in nonformal session from 3:30-3:55 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard from Reza Breakstone ("Superfan"), student, requesting support
of the Worker's Rights Consortium and ending sweatshops.
The meeting then adjourned until the following day.


163




January Meeting, 2000


Friday, January 21, 2000
The Regents met at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Interim Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice
President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Vice President Feagin, Chancellor
Mestas, and Regent Newman were absent. Provost McLaughlin arrived at 10:30 a.m. to
take the place of Chancellor Mestas.
Report: "Closing the Loop on Y2K"
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Jose Marie Griffiths,
chief information officer. Dr. Griffiths briefed the Regents about the Y2K rollover
event and noted that she would address such questions as What happened?; Was it
worth it?; What would we have had to do anyway?; What benefits were derived? What
is coming next?
Dr. Griffiths reported that the "rollover" activities began at about 6:00 p.m.
December 31, with about 30 people staffing the emergency response center and about
400-500 other people located in various buildings across the campus. At 2:00 a.m. on
January 1, most people were sent home due to the fact that no major crises had
occurred. There were also no major difficulties reported on January 3, 2000, the first
day of work following the holiday break. Only a few minor glitches were reported
across the campus during the rollover, and these were easily remedied.
Dr. Griffiths reported that there is no doubt that there would have been significant
failures if systems had not been tested and remediated to be Y2K compliant. As for the
cost of the Y2K compliance effort, she observed that it added the need for contractors
and consultants for Y2K-specific testing and remediation and also required the purchase
of Y2K-specific software that has no further use. Other additional expenses included
overtime and on-call pay for some categories of staff during the rollover period and the
time leading up to it. Total expenditures for Y2K are estimated to be about $56 million,
including about $46 million for the Hospitals and Health System and about $10 million
for the rest of the campus. She noted that almost all of the hardware and software
upgrades would have had to be done anyway at some time in the future, and these
account for about $46 million to $49 million of the $56 million total cost. The
remaining portion of expenses that were only useful for Y2K were estimated at a
maximum of $7 million ($6 million for the Health System and $1 million for the
campus).
Among the benefits derived from the Y2K effort are a comprehensive inventory of
all of the University's technology-based services and systems and the interdependencies
between them. A second major benefit is the development of campus-wide disaster
recovery and contingency plans, along with an umbrella plan that coordinates all of the
individual plans. A state-of-the-art emergency response center was developed that can
be reassembled at short notice. Another significant benefit is the development of a
comprehensive power environment backup system that will protect research materials
in the event of any unexpected major power outages and can also be used to avoid
power interruptions that would normally be required for scheduled maintenance or
construction activities.


164




January Meeting, 2000


The functionality of many systems was also improved with the addition of newer
versions of software and more reliable equipment. Finally, there were improvements in
the ability to communicate across campus and among the three campuses, and this will
be of lasting value to the institution.
Dr. Griffiths concluded that no problems were expected and none were
experienced as a result of the onset of the Year 2000. She noted that at each annual
disaster training session there will be simulations of different kinds of disasters in order
to build up a body of knowledge at the institution. She thanked the executive officers
and Regents for their support, as well as all who participated in the planning and
coordination of the Y2K effort.
President Bollinger commented that this was a "job well done." He thanked all
staff members who sacrificed their personal celebrations of New Year's Eve by
participating in the event, noting that a reception was being planned in their honor.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the meeting of
December 16, 1999.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports on Investment, Plant Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and
Noncompetitive Purchases over $5000 from single sources from September 16 -December 15, 1999.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established for December 1999, noting that research expenditures were up more than 16
percent over the previous year.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Mr. Bram Elias, president of Michigan
Student Assembly (MSA), and Rodolfo Palma-Lulion, co-chair of the MSA Peace and
Justice Commission, presented the MSA report.
Mr. Palma-Lulion reported that MSA had voted overwhelmingly to support the
Workers Rights Consortium (WRC) on November 2, 1999. He noted that the administration
had been working in good faith on this issue and that MSA understands that the options
must be carefully weighed before the University takes any action. However, students
believe that the process of choosing a monitoring system must be done as expediently
as possible, and they believe that the University administration will come to the conclusion
that the WRC is the best method for achieving an equitable environment for its
corporate sponsors and the workers who make licensed products. He urged the Regents
to support the administration as it continues to examine the issue and urged the
University to join the WRC.
Mr. Elias observed that students generally work on a one-year timeline, which is
different from that of faculty and administration. Therefore they need more immediate,
tangible results that can be concluded before the students involved in the issue graduate
and leave the University. When these students leave, the working relationship that they
have developed with the administration also disappears, and the process must begin all
over again.


165




January Meeting, 2000


Mr. Elias explained that the students involved with the WRC do not want to
boycott the companies committing the violations. Rather, they want to wear the
licensed garments they manufacture to represent their pride in being Michigan students,
while at the same time they want to be proud of the companies that produce the
merchandise. They believe that organizations such as the University of Michigan for
whom the merchandise is produced have the power to change the standards for the
entire industry, and that doing so will ultimately improve the lives of the workers
around the world who make the clothing. Students believe that signing the WRC would
be a pragmatic way for the University to address the issue of sweatshop labor with little
risk and to exert national leadership on the issue.
Mr. Elias observed that a year ago, student activists involved in this issue had little
trust in the administration. Since that time, the same students have become engaged in
the systematic process employed by the University for addressing such issues. Students
have learned, therefore, that when they organize around a reasonable cause, the
administration will listen and will involve them in the process. This has resulted in the
development of a high degree of trust in the administration among student activists.
He noted that MSA is pleased with progress made so far, as long as a report can be
provided in a quick and timely manner, before the deadline of February 2. Meeting this
deadline will allow MSA to illustrate to students some concrete accomplishments that
will have been made over a one-year time frame. He noted it is important that the
administration be aware of and reflect the students' sense of urgency surrounding this
issue.  Otherwise, there is a concern that trust will fade in the administration's
commitment, students will become frustrated, and there will be a setback in the
significant improvement that has been made during the past year in the working
relationship between students and the administration.
Regent Maynard inquired about the significance of the February 2nd deadline.
Mr. Elias responded that this date emerged as a reasonable date by which a progress
report could be issued following the sit-in by student activists in President Bollinger's
office last year. He noted that the final deadline for joining the WRC is the first week
in April, when there will be a national meeting in New York City for universities to
finalize the document that will spell out the terms of the agreement. The February 2nd
deadline is necessary to allow sufficient time to finalize strategy and arrangements for
attending the convention, and it is the original date by which students have been
expecting a response.
Vice President Krislov clarified that Mr. Elias was referring to a meeting
consisting of President Bollinger, students, and himself, during which the students
requested that they receive a response by February 2nd.  President Bollinger stated
during that meeting that "we will do our best to get back to you at that time."
Regent Maynard noted that she shared the concerns of the activists and agreed
with their strategy of trying to solve the systemic problems rather than conducting a
boycott. She said she believes it is more important to reach a wise, considered decision
than to adhere to an arbitrary deadline.
Mr. Elias responded that he agreed, but that the depth of passion among students
on this issue is very great, and given students' historic skepticism of the administration,
MSA wants to avoid a confrontation. The chances of this will be improved, he said, if
the administration will send a message that "we respect and reflect your urgency."


166




January Meeting, 2000


University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
reported on several issues of significance to the health system. He noted that the
hospital is in the black financially and that patient volumes continue to rise. NIH
funding also continues to increase. He noted that Ann Arbor Township had approved
the addition of an MRI facility at the East Ann Arbor Ambulatory Care Center. He
observed that the Medical School is working hard to increase the diversity of its
students and faculty. Finally, he noted that the he and Vice President Ulaby have been
working with the University's Michigan Life Sciences Corridor partners, and that the
governor would soon announce the appointment of a 14-person steering committee.
Student Affairs.  Vice President Harper noted that there have been recent
incidents of hazing and initiation rites reported among campus fraternities and said that
these are unsafe, dangerous, and demeaning. Therefore, the University intends both to
enforce its existing policies and to implement practices to insure the safety and
well-being of students. She observed that although students say they are opposed to
these practices in the abstract, when some are involved with their peers under the sway
of their organization's traditional practices, judgment can become considerably
impaired and sometimes results in behavior that is irresponsible and harmful to others.
Vice President Harper stated that students must be held accountable for their behavior,
and the apparent gap between their thoughts and their behavior needs to be challenged
act.
To this end, and in keeping with the University's responsibility to create a safe
learning environment for all of its students, she indicated that the University intends to
examine the current anti-hazing policy and improve the policy where necessary. She
also discussed implementing an anonymous hazing hotline, strengthening our
relationships with national fraternal organizations, and exploring the optimal time for
first-year students to affiliate with fraternal organizations.
President Bollinger asked Vice President Harper to clarify the current hazing
policy. Vice President Harper observed that the Regents had adopted a broad umbrella
policy in 1982, which basically states that the University condemns hazing but leaves it
to the individual student organizations to develop enforcement procedures. The latter
task has never been completed, and there has been no enforcement of the policy. The
Code of Student Conduct mentions hazing as being offensive, but does not provide
sanctions.  Regarding off-campus behavior, Vice President Harper observed that
fraternal organizations are considered to be personal residences and the University can
only exert its authority when behavior constitutes a threat to the community.
Regent Deitch observed that the recently reported hazing incidents are abhorrent
and he supports the concept of a thoughtful investigation of approaches toward
eradicating the behavior. However, he said that it is important to point out that for the
overwhelming number of people who participate in the Greek organizations, there is a
consistency between their actions and their words. He believes the leaders of these
organizations will come to the table with the same sense of commitment to eradicating
inappropriate practices as would other student leaders with whom the Regents work.
Vice President Harper agreed, noting that the majority of students act in good
faith. She called on Mr. Adam Silver, president of the Interfraternity Council (IFC),
who reported that the IFC and the Panhellenic Association do plan on implementing
their own policy. They also plan to send letters to the parents of students who join


167




January Meeting, 2000


Greek organizations with the hope that they will get involved as well. Other measures
are also planned to reinforce the message that the Greek organizations will not tolerate
any hazing and will work with the University to enforce this. They plan to have a
policy in place by the end of the semester. He noted that IFC leaders have found that
the three most serious problems with hazing are physical and mental harm and poor
academic performance, and the policy will address these and will hold individual
organizations accountable for their actions.
Noting that a fire had recently occurred in a residence hall at Seton Hall
University, Vice President Harper commented that for the past several years the
Housing Division has been working aggressively to make sure that fire protection and
life safety issues are attended to, both in residence halls and fraternal organizations.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Interim Chancellor Klein reported that the
UM-Dearborn Wellness Center celebrated its official opening on January 14, 2000. He
also noted that on Martin Luther King Day hundreds of students had performed
community service work.
University of Michigan-Flint. Provost McLaughlin noted that UM-Flint students
had also performed community service work on Martin Luther King Day. She reported
that Chancellor Mestas has been extremely well-received by the campus community, by
alumni, and by other constituencies within the broader community.
Voluntary Support. The Regents received the Report of Voluntary Support for
December 1999.
Andrew Abel, Pinckney
for the Andrew K. and Dr. Tama D. Abel Hockey Scholarship, for the Varsity Tennis
Complex, and for Women's Basketball support in the Department of Athletics......... $ 17,700
William J. Abraham, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
76 shares of Sun Microsystems common stock
for the Foley &  Lardner Fund in the Law  School................................... 10,131
Earl B. Abramson, Northfield, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
ALCOA Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee m atching  gifts....................................................  7,000
Alden Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Richard J. Alder, Jr., Westland
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Music and in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................... 7,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
500 shares of Adobe Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Bruce B. Allen Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration...... 33,703
Alpha Omega Fraternity, Detroit Chapter, West Bloomfield
for the Alpha Omega Fraternity Student Forum Fund in the School of Dentistry........... 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 116,632
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health........................... 25,637
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 25,000
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  28,750
Ameritech Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School..... 10,000
Anna Angus, Dexter
for support in the School of Education, in memory of David Angus.................... 10,000
168




January Meeting, 2000


Anonymous Donor
26,551 shares of Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company common stock
for support of the Law  School............................................... 2,499,113
Anonymous Donor
700 shares of Daktronic, Inc., common stock
for the Clements Library...................................................... 11,594
Anonymous Donor
for the Program in Film and Video Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 5,000
Anonymous Donor
70 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 6,683
Anonymous Donor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,001
Anonymous Donor
for the Classical Studies Department Endowed Research Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the  Arts................................................ 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the School of Nursing.................................. 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 25,000
Arbor Springs Water Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Schools of Law and Music, and
for the Bob  Ufer M emorial Fund................................................  5,093
ARCO Products Company, Los Angeles, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  8,500
Asphalt Products Corporation, Novi
for the  University  H ospitals....................................................  5,437
Association for Academic Surgery, Manchester, Massachusetts
for the C. Gardner Child Research and Education Fund in the Medical School............ 15,000
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for research and the Schmidt Family Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School......... 50,000
Linda L. Avakian, Salinas, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 6,200
Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Richard W. Bailey, Ann Arbor
259 units of Munder Multi Season Fund mutual fund
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and in the Bentley
Historical, Clements, and University Libraries...................................... 5,539
Thomas H. Baker, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Frank H. Baker Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............ 10,000
BankBoston Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Benson P. Shapiro Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 10,000
Robert D. Barber, Jr., San Antonio, Texas
69 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for support in  the School of M usic...............................................  5,397
BASF Corporation, Budd Lake, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering....................... 15,000
Frank W. Batsch, Naples, Florida
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 20,000
James A. Bellamy, Ann Arbor
for Near Eastern Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 5,000
D. Theodore Berghorst, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................... 6,000
Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Omaha, Nebraska
180 shares of General Dynamics common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for other support at the University of Michigan....... 9,000
Carl D. Bernstein, Weston, Connecticut
828 shares of Mercury Interactive Corporation common stock
for support of the Law   School.................................................. 78,039
169




January Meeting, 2000


Berry Foundation, Moreland Hills, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for the Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music,
for the University of Michigan Club of Cleveland Scholarship, and for the University
Musical Society............................................................. 5,250
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
H. Glenn Bixby, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 7,500
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
60 shares of Sony Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 11,381
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Donald and Jo Anne Petersen Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........ 550,000
Walter W. Borland, Lake Mary, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 5,000
Wayne and Ida Bowman Foundation, St. Simons Island, Georgia
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in Organ and other support in the School of Music..... 5,000
Mary L. Boyers Trust
for the W. K. Kellogg  Eye Center............................................... 14,799
Frances K. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 10,000
Keith E. Brauer, Indianapolis, Indiana
69 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,119
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 60,000
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
for pediatric ophthalmology research in the Medical School.......................... 15,000
Wilbert H. Budd, Elkhart, Indiana
2,000 shares of CTS Corporation common stock
for the Budd Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 136,125
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
350 shares of Interface Systems common stock
for the Nichols Arboretum Gateway Garden Fund................................... 5,119
Suzanne H. Butch, Ann Arbor
for the Suzanne Butch Fund in the School of Music.................................. 5,000
John W. Butler, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Lucille Miller and John W. Butler, Sr., Scholarship in the Law School............ 15,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for the  M useum   of Art........................................................  5,100
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 50,000
Alfred J. Capoferi, St. Clair Shores
535 shares of Southwestern Bell Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 27,452
Caterpillar Tractor Company, East Peoria, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
B. F. Chamberlain, Bloomfield Hills
355 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for scholarships and the Ray L. Fisher Baseball Fund in the Department of Athletics
and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 41,435
Anthony T. Chapekis, Dublin, Ohio
for the Andy and Cheryl Chapekis Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 5,000
Margaret S. Cheney, East Lansing
300 shares of Pfizer, Inc. common stock
for the Edward Cheney Undergraduate Orthodontics Fund in the School of Dentistry...... 10,228
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for mathematics scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 5,000
Thomas C. Cochran, Jr., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000


170




January Meeting, 2000


Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 12,900
Mrs. Billie C. Cojeen, Grand Blanc
for the Professor Robert H. Cojeen Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........ 5,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering and other support at the University of Michigan.... 6,250
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 53,000
Howard Cooper, Ann Arbor
135 shares of Qualcomm, Inc., common stock
for the Howard J. Cooper Scholarship and other support in the School of Business
Administration.............................................................  52,680
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music..................... 25,000
Alice S. Corey, Altadena, California
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
andthe Arts................................................................. 8,000
Corning, Inc., Foundation, Corning, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts....................................................  5,150
Council Michigan Foundations, Grand Haven
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............. 10,000
Asho I. Craine Trust
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 5,000
Garvie T. Craw, Little Silver, New Jersey
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics............ 5,000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Law and Music, for the Nichols Arboretum Gateway
Garden Fund, and for the Museum  of Art.......................................... 6,700
Josephine M. Creek Trustee
for the Daniel C. Maier Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 10,000
Richard B. Cunningham, Conifer, Colorado
600 units of MFS Global Government Fund mutual fund
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................... 6,192
Norman Dahn Estate
for the Norman J. Dahn Endowed Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry........ 2,000,000
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration, for the DaimlerChrysler
Corporation Engineering Scholarship and Fellowship Fund, the Summer
Engineering Academy Program Fund, and other support in the College of
Engineering and for the University Musical Society................................ 109,500
William F. D'Angelo, Cape Elizabeth, Maine
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School............... 5,000
William K. Davenport, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
450 shares of Ventana Medical Systems common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of
Business Administration, and for support in the School of Education................... 13,598
Frank E. Davis, Harlingen, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  5,000
Raymond F. Decker, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship and other ice hockey support in the
Departm ent of Athletics......................................................  30,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry............................ 5,000
Angela DelVecchio, Ann Arbor
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................. 10,000


171




January Meeting, 2000


Roberta DeMott-Friberg, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library....................................................... 5,100
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 20,250
Beatrice C. DeRocco, San Francisco, California
60 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the
University Musical Society, in memory of Valerie Meyer............................. 6,143
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................. 17,600
Stephen B. Diamond, River Forest, Illinois
150 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School................................................. 13,856
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 50,000
Joann Diebolt Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Charles Diebolt........ 100,000
Daniel L. Dierdorf, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics........... 5,000
Donald D. Dodge, Dearborn
90 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Harland P. Dodge and Russell A. Dodge Memorial Scholarship in the College
of  Engineering............................................................... 4,762
Domino's Pizza, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
392 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 32,034
Thomas J. Donnelly, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 5,000
Doshay Family Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for the M. Eng Pharmaceutical Engineering Program Fund in the College of Engineering..... 5,000
Stanley C. Duffendack, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
700 shares of General Electric common stock
for the Stanley C. and Helen C. Duffendack Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund or the ultimate benefit of the School of Nursing, the Department of
Psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the
Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies.................................. 110,403
N. Reed Dunnick, Ann Arbor
450 shares of American Bancshares common stock
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School........................... 5,302
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering......... 25,000
James H. Ellis, Ann Arbor
179 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the BRS Radiology Endowment in the Medical School............................ 6,299
Robert S. Ellis, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
150 shares of American General Corporation common stock
for the Robert S. Ellis, M.D., Endowed Fund in Allergy in the Medical School........... 10,289
Paul B. Elzey Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................ 5,000
S. Cody Engle, Chicago, Illinois
350 shares of GTE Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Institute for Social Research and for the Humanities Institute in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 30,441
George P. Esler, Grosse Pointe
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
ESPE America, Inc., Norristown, Pennsylvania
for the Pediatric Dentistry Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry................ 6,400
Exxon Company, USA, Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 26,000


172




January Meeting, 2000


Exxon Mobil Foundation, Fairfax, Virginia
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 5,000
Ruth Stine Fajans, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in the Medical School........................... 7,138
Oscar H. and Barbara Feldman Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Richard A. Ferrington, Santa Rosa, California
100 shares of CBS Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School and the Museum of Art............................ 5,844
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Robert P. Kirby Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and for other support at the University of Michigan................................. 17,800
Russell H. Fifield, Ann Arbor
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center............................................... 10,000
John W. Fischer, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic Fund in the School of Dentistry..................... 8,000
Kathleen K. Fischer Trust
for the Carl H. Fischer Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................ 50,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the Law   School.................................................. 25,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
65 shares of MCI Worldcom, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 5,151
Edward I. Fleischman Foundation, Southfield
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library........ 7,500
Flow Ezy Filters, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School.............. 5,000
Paul Foltyn, Birmingham
for student aid  in  the M edical School............................................  10,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 20,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 50,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and for the 16th Biennial Conference on
Chemical Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 49,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and
Environment, the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the Center for the Education of Women.................................  1,525,000
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 50,000
George B. Foussianes, New York, New York
for the Foussianes Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 20,000
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
354 shares of Foremost Corporation of America common stock
for support in the School of Education and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 9,978
Martin R. Frankel, Cos Cob, Connecticut
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research...................... 5,000
Emmalyn E. Freeman Trust
for support of the Law School, for research in the Medical School, and
for the Ralph M. and Emmalyn E. Freeman Endowment at the University of
M ichigan-Flint............................................................  878,924
Ralph M. Freeman Residuary Estate
16,254 shares of various corporate common stock
for support of the Law School, for research in the Medical School, and
for the Ralph M. and Emmalyn E. Freeman Endowment at the University of
M ichigan-Flint............................................................  754,641
David G. Frey, Grand Rapids
8,850 shares of Foremost Corporation of America common stock
for the Vera Campbell Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the  School of Education...................................................  248,077
173




January Meeting, 2000


Gerald Garfield, Hartford, Connecticut
for support of the Law  School.................................................. 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 25,000
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the
C. S. Mott Children's Hospital................................................. 6,000
Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 20,000
Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Family Foundation, Southfield
for the Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................... 5,000
Paul W. Gikas, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School................................................ 9,421
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering
and for support in the School of Information and the Center for the Education
of Women.................................................................. 5,000
William B. Ginsberg, London, England
2,800 shares of NTL, Inc., common stock
for the Edward Ginsberg Center for Community Service and Learning Endowment....... 283,325
Robert D. Glauz, Davis, California
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering.............. 5,000
Al Glick, Jackson
200 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 26,300
Globe Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration......................................................  50,000
Goldman, Sachs & Company, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Grant K. Goodman, Lawrence, Kansas
204 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Grant K. Goodman Fund in the Center for Japanese Studies and other support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 28,037
William C. Greer, Livingston, New Jersey
for the Curtis W. Greer Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 50,000
James and Nancy Grosfeld Foundation, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the Medical School.......... 20,000
GTE Foundation, Irving, Texas
for the GTE Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration and
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.................... 20,000
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Lori B. Gurian, New York, New York
for the Arthur Fondiler History Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................  20,000
Nancy E. Gwinn, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Gwinn - Cole Family Scholarship in the School of Information................... 5,000
Jack Habel, Naples, Florida
2,000 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company common stock
for the Jack and Leonora J. Habel Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Leonora and Barney Habel Endowment........................ 25,375
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
150 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the William and Lois Halliday Law Scholarship in the Law School.................. 13,116
Sheila F. Hamp, Dearborn
for the  Clem ents Library.......................................................  5,000
Clinton B. Harris III, Beverly Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration and the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning.......................................  5,500
Patricia Bugas Harris, Jackson
for the Charles G. Harris Neurological Research Fund in the Medical School............. 25,000


174




January Meeting, 2000


Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
115 shares of Kopin Corporation common stock
for support in the Law School, the Center for the Education of Women, the
Jill S. Harris Memorial Fund, and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 8,115
Harris Family Foundation, Inc., Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
400 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt
Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 22,013
Shirley Helzberg, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration and for the University Library.................................... 104,250
Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Fund, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Lloyd A. Heneveld, Bellaire
100 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1950 Emeritus Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 5,419
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  15,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics......................... 5,000
Frances E. Heydt, Miami, Florida
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 10,100
Clyde W. Hibbs Trust
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 19,722
Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for the M. Eng Pharmaceutical Engineering Program Fund in the College of Engineering.... 15,000
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............. 25,000
Charlotte Howard Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 15,744
Joseph L. Hudson IV, Madison, Wisconsin
90 shares of Dayton Hudson Corporation common stock
for support in the Law School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the  University  Library......................................................  6,422
William F. Hunting, Jr., Andover, New Hampshire
106 shares of Atlantic Richfield Company common stock
for support of the Law   School.................................................. 10,259
Curtis E. Huntington, Ann Arbor
for the Margaret Huntington Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts....................................................................  5,000
Ida L. lacobucci, St. Clair Shores
375 units of Van Kampen Pace Fund mutual fund
for the Ida L. Iacobucci Orthoptic Clinic Fund in the Medical School.................... 5,025
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Romulus
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 22,000
Inman Family Foundation, Detroit
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the School of Information......................................... 50,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for the  Clem ents Library.......................................................  5,000
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  5,000
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  200,000
Herbert W. Johe, Ann Arbor
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
and  for the M useum   of Art.....................................................  5,000


175




January Meeting, 2000


Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health, and Social Work
and at the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 505,592
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 5,000
Fred G. Jones, Jr., Alma
700 shares of General Electric common stock
for the Fred G. Jones, M.D., Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Fred G. Jones, M.D., Family Endowment in the College
of Engineering............................................................ 105,831
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 134,659
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 25,000
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for the Kajima Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................................ 5,000
Ronnie K. Kassan, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
600 shares of American Home Products Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Richard and
Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law School, and for the
Richard and Shirley Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics and the Law School................ 23,166
W. K.. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education and the Institute for Social Research............ 42,500
Shake Ketefian, Ann Arbor
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................  10,000
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for  W U O M................................................................  8,478
C. Robert Kidder, New Albany, Ohio
1,692 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for the C. Robert and Mary Kidder Endowed Scholarships in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  71,064
Kirkland and Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland and Ellis Professorship in the Law School......................... 150,000
Masato Koreeda, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 6,500
Steven M. Korotkin, Birmingham
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  5,000
David E. Krehbiel, Ann Arbor
150 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for support in the School of Social Work, for the University Musical Society,
and  for  W U O M............................................................  16,261
John R. Kreick, Nashua, New Hampshire
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
and in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......................... 25,000
William C. Kuhns, Montecito, California
1,000 shares of Finova Group, Inc., common stock
for the MFA Director's Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 35,281
Simone C. Lacher, Hinsdale, Illinois
500 shares of Beyond.com Corporation common stock
for support in the Division  of Kinesiology........................................  5,219
Louis and Esther Lamed Family Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Esther and Louis Lamed Fund for Yiddish Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  10,000
Agatha Larson Estate
4,126 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 239,629
Clifford J. Lavers, Cape Coral, Florida
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, in memory
of M ary  D. Regitko  Lavers....................................................  5,000


176




January Meeting, 2000


Lear Corporation, Southfield
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 5,000
Tuck and Ham Hi Lee Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Tuck and Ham Hi Lee Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering...... 100,000
Legacy Fund of Hamilton County, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
95 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Ralph E. Bennett Endowment Funds in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................................ 9,835
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
190 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock:
for support of the Law School, for the Humanities Institute, and other support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 8,657
Levitt Family Foundation, Englewood, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 10,000
Rebecca B. Lohr, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 5,000
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 200,000
M Den, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School.............. 9,000
Hunein F. Maassab, Ann Arbor
for the H. F. Maassab Student Research Award Fund in the School of Public Health........ 5,000
Robert J. MacDonald Estate
for the Wallace J. Bonk Memorial Fund in the School of Information and
for the  University  Library.....................................................  80,000
Elizabeth J. Macomber Estate
Various corporate common stocks, municipal bonds, and a cash gift
for the Elizabeth J. Macomber Fund in the Law School and for support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 716,528
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Tom and JoAnn Maentz Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....... 50,000
Sylvia Majkowski, Redford
500 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for scholarships pending  designation............................................  41,359
Donald H. Malloure, Beverly Hills
750 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Class of 1950 Emeritus
Fund and other support in the College of Engineering, and for the Malloure Gift
Fund in the Department of Athletics............................................ 101,039
Joseph R. Malloure, Northville
for the Civil Engineering Alumni Friends Association Fellowship in the College
of  Engineering............................................................... 5,000
David P. Mans and Patricia Z. Spector Trust
10,000 shares of Clickaction, Inc., common stock
for gifts pending  designation.................................................. 255,000
Oliver F. Manzini, Laurium
for support in the School of Dentistry and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 12,500
James and Ethel Marks Estate
for student aid  in  the M edical School............................................ 45,430
Richard B. Marsh Trust
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
803 units of Scudder Growth & Income Fund mutual fund and a cash gift
for the Josip Matovinovic Endowed Fellowship and other support in the Medical
School and for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts.............................................. 60,796


177




January Meeting, 2000


Frederick C. Matthaei, Jr., Birmingham
563 units of Franklin Templeton World Fund mutual fund
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics......................... 9,605
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 22,000
Oscar G. and Elsa S. Mayer Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
McKinsey & Company, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Roger M. McPeek, Winchester, Massachusetts
100 shares of ADC Telecommunications, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 6,638
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research and other support in the Medical School.............................. 145,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................ 500,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and  the College of Engineering................................................. 50,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the M ette Foundation  Scholarship............................................ 50,000
Mexican Town Restaurant, Inc., Detroit
for the Retinoschsis Research Fund in the Medical School........................... 17,987
Michigan State Medical Society Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School............................ 10,850
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for the Grace Hopper
Project Fund in the Center for the Education for Women............................. 60,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................. 6,000
William E. Modlin, Decatur, Illinois
200 shares of A. G. Edwards & Sons common stock and a cash gift
for the Marching Band Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Music......... 5,838
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  18,838
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics and for the
Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of Business
A dm inistration............................................................  67,500
Richard G. Morgan, Los Angeles, California
420 units of Neuberger & Berman Guardian Fund mutual fund
for support of the Law   School................................................... 10,00
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
431 shares of American International Group common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration...... 48,752
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the  Clem ents Library.......................................................  5,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for fellowships in the College of Engineering and for support in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................................. 260,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint...................................  900,000
Janet S. Mueller, St. Peter, Minnesota
for the  Clem ents Library.......................................................  5,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  20,286
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  42,142
National Multiple Sclerosis Society Michigan Chapter, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  8,642
William N. Natsis, Westerville, Ohio
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 10,000


178




January Meeting, 2000


Robert D. Neary, Pepper Pike, Ohio
2,609 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 87,413
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
1,000 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 27,313
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 25,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry.......... 35,482
Kevin J. O'Connor, New York, New York
2,000 shares of DoubleClick, Inc., common stock
for the Kevin and Nancy O'Connor Endowment and other support in the College
of Engineering............................................................ 329,625
Oral Health America, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Dentistry............................................ 11,200
Jeanne H. Osgood, Levering
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, in memory of Manley Osgood, Jr........................................  10,000
Owens & Minor, Plymouth
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  5,000
Robert C. Parker, Ann Arbor
400 shares of America Online, Inc.,
300 shares of Amazon.com, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert C. and Jane L. Parker Football Scholarship in the Department of
Athletics, for support in the College of Engineering, and for the University Hospitals...... 59,875
Martha Hecht Pascal, Evanston, Illinois
for the Martha and Roger Pascal Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................  6,000
Robert D. Paster, Calabasas, California
100 shares of Rockwell International Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 5,000
Patricia D. Pawelski, Ann Arbor
35 shares of Yahoo, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  11,379
Bernhardt L. Pederson, Bay City
85 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, for support
in the College of Engineering, and for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship
in  the  M edical School.........................................................  9,706
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, New York
for the Pepsi-Cola Athletics Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................. 50,000
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law  School...............................  10,000
Darrell A. Phillippi, Jacksonville, Florida
100 shares of Baxter International, Inc., common stock
for the  University  Library......................................................  6,744
Ronald L. Piasecki, Incline Village, Nevada
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 16,156
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts......................................................... 50,000
M. Harry Piper, Flint
for the Joyce R. Piper Piano Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint.............. 9,000
William F. Piper Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration and for research in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................................  10,000
Murray and Ina Pitt Charitable Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 20,000
Allan T. Popelka, Pacific Palisades, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Poppy Family Trust
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School..................... 84,314


179




January Meeting, 2000


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Tampa, Florida
for the Victor L. Bernard-Price Waterhouse LLP Professorship and the
William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration................ 35,000
Steven Radom, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 17,600
Mark Resnik, Encino, California
654 shares of EMC Corporation and
270 shares of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company common stock
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 97,798
Riverview Firefighter Association, Riverview
for the Trauma Bur Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School.................. 6,500
Thomas G. Robinson, Sault St. Marie
for support in  the  School of Dentistry............................................ 6,000
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
102 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the School of Music, the Museum of Art, and the University Musical Society.......... 8,732
Peter J. Rosewig, Tequesta, Florida
for the Peter J. and Theta M. Rosewig Women's Athletic Scholarship in the
Department of Athletics......................................................  50,000
Lois R. Ross Trust
for the Coleman and Lois Ross Scholarship and the FWT Learning Resources
Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 50,000
Glenn A. Rossman, Fort Wayne, Indiana
150 shares of Mellon Financial Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the University of Michigan Club of Fort Wayne Scholarship.................... 5,672
Louise Rotenberg Trust
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University
L ibrary.....................................................................  7,000
Georgia S. Rowe, Sun City, Arizona
for the Tom D. Rowe Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy................. 5,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Xenia, Ohio
for materials science and engineering support in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for student aid  in  the M edical School............................................  13,000
Henrietta Rust Estate
for support in the School of Public Health........................................  41,665
Saddle Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 40,000
Vivian Fell Sangunett, Alexandria, Virginia
three shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. common stock
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...................... 5,643
Saul S. Saulson, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship in Business in the School of Business
A dm inistration..............................................................  15,00
Peter J. Savarino, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Miami Computer Supply Corporation common stock
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 6,238
Nathan Schafer, Flint
1,169 shares of America Online, Inc., common stock
for the Nathan Schafer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the study of population environmental issues, for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for WFUM.................................  103,984
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School................................ 50,500
Richard M. Scroggins, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Education.................... 5,250
Robert G. Segel Charitable Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund in the College
of Engineering..............................................................  10,000


180




January Meeting, 2000


Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 46,500
Chester P. Shelly, Naples, Florida
246 shares of SBC Communications common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............ 12,830
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Graduate Coaching Fellowship in the Department
of Athletics.................................................................  7,500
Langley R. Shook, Washington, DC
65 shares of General Electric common stock
for support of the Law School................................................. 10,246
Jonathan L. Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 5,000
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
120 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 9,769
SmithKline Beecham, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 25,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold and Kathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts...............................................................  10,000
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
225 shares of Eastman Kodak Company common stock
for the George E., Jr., and Elizabeth S. Sperling Endowment in the Law School........... 13,718
Norman M. Spindelman, Rochester, New York
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000
Dorothy W. Steiner, Ann Arbor
200 shares of American Home Products Corporation common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 9,525
Christine W. Stevens, Ridgefield, Connecticut
1,700 shares of Comerica, common stock and a cash gift
for the Spencer H. Wagar, M.D., Fund in the Medical School and for support in
the  School of N ursing.......................................................  103,641
Esther Stewart Trust
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000
Robert W. Storer, Ann Arbor
1,038 shares of Wells Fargo Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert W. Storer Fund and the Charles F. Walker Endowment in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 45,147
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support in the School of
Business A dm inistration......................................................  11,000
W. David Tarver, Little Silver, New Jersey
520 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Fred and Louise Tarver Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 30,046
Tauber Family Foundation, Southfield
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowments in the School of Business Administration
and  the College of Engineering................................................ 152,000
FBO TenBroeck Trust
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College of Engineering......... 8,800
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
280 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law Library Endowment in the Law School.................. 20,466
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 20,000
Mary L. Tiffany, Ann Arbor
777 shares of Texas Instruments common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 77,428
Jeanette Tinker Trust
for the Mary Ann Tinker, MD, Surgical Education and Research Fund in the
M edical School.............................................................  30,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment for the Dean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 600,000


181




January Meeting, 2000


Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund, New York New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 150,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
2,730 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, for the
Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School, and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 339,032
David F. Tuthill, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
225 shares of Comcast Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  11,366
Jonathan Uhr, Dallas, Texas
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
Administration............................................................  10,000
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School............................................. 100,000
United Way of Orange County, Irvine, California
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........... 9,000
Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
1,630 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Norman Thompson, M.D., Professorship of Surgery in the Medical School........ 38,305
Donia Vakuf Foundation, La Jolla, California
for the Center for Russian and East European Studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................... 5,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for research and the George F. and Nancy P. Valassis Professorship in the
M edical School............................................................  250,000
Vijay K. Verma, Middlesex, United Kingdom
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research...................... 5,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, Connecticut
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School........... 50,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Schools of Education and Medicine and for the building fund
and other support in the Division of Kinesiology.................................... 7,500
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
for the Nancy W. Walls Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy and for the
Women's Health Community Outreach Program Fund.............................. 23,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee m atching  gifts...................................................  33,916
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment............................................ 125,000
Frank M. Weisser, Brooklyn, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
James H. Wells, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
250 shares of General Electric Company common stock and a cash gift
for the James H. and Mary R. Wells Endowed Fund in Allergy in the Medical
School and for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 35,958
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Tacoma, Washington
for the Weyerhaeuser Student Research Fellowships in the School of Natural
Resources and  Environm ent...................................................  40,000
Robert J. White, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Whitaker Foundation Student Fellowships in the College of Engineering,
and for research  in the M edical School.......................................... 138,000
Richard P. Whitker, Ann Arbor
135 shares of Honeywell International, Inc., common stock
for the Law  Library Gift Fund in the Law  School...................................  8,315


182




January Meeting, 2000


Max S. Wicha, Ann Arbor
900 shares of Ligand Pharmaceutical and
20 shares of Ebay, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the Medical School
andforWUOM............................................................. 12,507
Alfred J. Wiederkehr, Zurich, Switzerland
for support of the Law  School.................................................. 5,000
William C. Wilkinson, Bloomfield Hills
1,150 shares of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., common stock
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School.................................. 76,834
Windway Foundation, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Foley &  Lardner Fund in the Law  School.................................. 10,000
Ronald J. Woods Charitable Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the School of Music and for the building fund in the School of
Engineering, the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 50,500
Richard A. Yarmain, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of TCF Financial common stock
for the Agnes, Harry, and Richard Yarmain Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Men's Glee Club.................................  28,788
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law  School................................... 50,000
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment and in the College
of Engineering, for the Museum of Art, and for the University Musical Society............ 7,700
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the Law   School.................................................. 55,000
Morton M. Zedd, Richmond, Virginia
for support of the Law   School.................................................. 10,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell Professorship in the Economics of Risk, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................ 300,000
Roy H. Ziegler, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  6,491
James D. Zirin, New York, New York
for support of the Law   School................................................... 5,000
The following non monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Karlene Bematovech, Newtown, Pennsylvania
books and periodicals relating to Abraham Lincoln for the Clements Library
Jamie Bickley, Wyoming
equipment for the School of Art and Design
Ruth L. Cantieny Estate
a late 18th century English Hepplewhite period mahogany desk/secretary with chair for the
Clements Library
Mary S. Davis, Atlas
two wheelchairs for the University of Michigan-Flint
Michael F. Dempsey, Ann Arbor
a framed mixed-media Serigraph by Arthur Seunda for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
a historically significant book, two letters, and a printed banquet program for the Clements Library
John K. and Donna M. Dunn, Dearborn
three etchings by Charles S. Klabunde for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred
Berkowitz Gallery
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
equipment for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
General Motors Corporation, R & D Center, Warren
equipment for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
video graphic services for the Solar Car Team
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
euuitment for ITD
183




January Meeting, 2000


James N. Kent, Roscommon
a historic recording of the Michigan Marching Band for Revelli Hall
W. Peter Kramer, Royal Oak
a sailboat with related accessories for Camp Michigania
Martin Marx, Bingham Farms
two oil paintings on canvas by Di Lifeng for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred
Berkowitz Library
Philip P. Mason, Dearborn
nineteen items of historical Americana for the Clements Library
Jerry Meislik, Ann Arbor
ten Bonsai trees for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Northwest Airlines, Detroit
air travel tickets for the Solar Car Team
Eric B. Quist, Ann Arbor
forty research and reference books for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Susan J. Rabick, Sparta
a manuscript account and letter book written by William Pote for the Clements Library
Richard Ricca, Nyack, New York
papers and books of Reverend Alexander R. Thompson for the Clements Library
Timothy F. Richards, Ann Arbor
three books for the Clements Library
Mrs. Lovell W. Royston, Cincinnati, Ohio
an 18th century Octant by Joshua Linnell and a variety of printed materials for the Clements Library
Lucille M. Sims, Sarasota, Florida
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Charles E. Slonim, Manassas, Virginia
an oil painting for the University of Michigan-Dearborn art collection
Joanne A. Smith, Ann Arbor
piano teaching books and materials for the School of Music
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
forty binders of various printed items, photographs, and slides for the history of art department
Bonnie L. Thompson, Ann Arbor
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Cleveland Thurber, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
a collection of Dubois family letters for the Clements Library
Clayton M. Timmons, Palm City, Florida
a map of Mackinac Island for the Clements Library
Kenneth B. West, Flint
fifty-three videos on military history for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson
Thompson Library
Mary J. Wilson, Lansing
the Benjamin Bussey family papers for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:


Evelyn M. Alix, West Bloomfield
John Arthos, Ann Arbor
Todd W. Braisted, Dumont, New Jersey
Carpenter Lumber, Dexter
Theodore M. Cole, Ann Arbor
Jeannie Dewein, Burton
Brian L. Dunnigan, Tecumseh
Aileen Sallom Freeman, Paupack,
Pennsylvania
Julie A. Fremuth, Ann Arbor
Steven M. Gasworth, Farmington Hills
Robert C. Gregori, Indianapolis, Indiana
Robert E. Grese, Ann Arbor
Audrey Hartsell, Ypsilanti
Anne Vance Hatcher, Ann Arbor
Sharon C. Herbert, Ann Arbor
Ann E. Hoff, Tucson, Arizona
Karen L. Holland, Dearborn
R. Maurice Hood, Marble Falls, Texas
Matthew H. Hyde, Ann Arbor
Jack's Hardware. Ann Arbor


William P. Kramer II, Holland
Judith Lynn, Ann Arbor
Marie Martin, Chevy Chase, Maryland
Richard B. Morgan, De Kalb, Illinois
John K. Parker, Dexter
John G. Pedley, Ann Arbor
Ellis Perlman, Burton
Joseph E. Peterson Estate
Mary Jo Philban, Saline
John W. Presley, Oswego, New York
Douglas E. Price, Ann Arbor
Ed Robert, Canton
Janice G. Schimmelman, Rochester
Vandenberg Bulb Company, Inc., Howell
Willis Van Devanter, Poolesville, Maryland
John R. Wheat, Berkeley, California
Thomas S. Whitecloud, III, New Orleans,
Louisiana
David D. Wood, Naples, Florida
Hubert S. Wood, Middletown, Maryland


184




January Meeting, 2000


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 2000
Olson, Terese M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering
Pollock, Tresa M., Ph.D., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Delanghe, Gay Ann, Chair, Department of Dance, School of Music, five year term
Fredricksen, Erik, Chair, Department of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, five year term
Waters, Christine M., Interim Associate Dean, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, six month term, January 1, 2000
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 2000
Bozer, Yavuz A., Goff Smith Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute, College of
Engineering, eight month term
McMahon, Laurence F., Jr., Acting Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Reece, James S., Ford Motor Company Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute,
School of Business Administration, eight month term
Wall, Harriet M., Chair, Department of Psychology, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, two and one-half year term
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Ralph W. Aigler Professorship in Law, Law School, five year renewable term, January 21, 2000
Carl W. Belser Collegiate Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year renewable term, January 1, 2000
Samuel D. Harris Collegiate Professorship in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, three to five year renewable
terms, January 1, 2000
Norma Radin Collegiate Professorship in Social Work, School of Social Work, five year renewable term,
March 1, 2000
Renaming Administrative Position
Associate Vice President for Human Resources and Affirmative Action, Offices of the Provost and Executive
Vice President for Academic Affairs and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
February 1, 2000 (previous title, Executive Director of Human Resources and Affirmative Action)
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective January 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Brewer, George J., Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School,
February 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Palincsar, Annmarie Sullivan, Jean and Charles R. Walgreen Jr. Professor of Reading and Literacy, School
of Education, five year term
Papalambros, Panos Y., Donald C. Graham Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering, five year
term
Pollock, Stephen M., Herrick Professor of Manufacturing, College of Engineering, five year term


185




January Meeting, 2000


Reappointment to Established Professorship
Dumas, Rhetaugh Graves, Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, two year term, July 1,
1999
Other Transactions
Waissi, Gary R., Ph.D., from Interim Dean to Dean, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management,
five year term, February 1, 2000
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Foss, Peggy J., retroactive from September 1, 1999, through June 30, 2000, vice L. Rowell Huesmann, on
sabbatical leave
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc.
Fogel, Jessica K., retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2002, vice Ruth T. Whitaker,
term expired
Kinnear, Constance, retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2002, new appointment
Matlock, John, retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2002, vice Lester P. Monts, term
expired
Mayer, Frederick W., retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2002, vice Lisa B. Baker,
term expired
Neuman, Shirley C., retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2002, new appointment
Peters, Helen A., reappointed retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2001
Rowe, Ellen H., retroactive from December 1, 1999, through November 30, 2001, new appointment
Sparling, Peter D., reappointed retroactive from December 1, 1999, through October 31, 2001
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Kimeldorf, Howard A., retroactive from January 3, 2000, through August 31, 2000, vice Ruth E. Dunkle,
unable to serve
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alpine, Keith D., D.D.S., Clinical Associate Professor II of Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry,
December 1, 1999-November 30, 2002
Andersen, Jan-Henrik, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, January 1, 2000 -April 30, 2002
Gallagher, Richard R., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Gencyuz, Charisse, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1, 2000 -December 31,2001
Hagan, Peter, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1, 2000 -December 31, 2002
Kim, Inchul, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2001
Miller, Sonya R., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
December 15, 1999-December 14, 2000
Shishkoff, Serge, M.A., Lecturer II in Russian and Serbo-Croatian, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Smith, Peggy E., M.A., Lecturer in Health Care, University of Michigan-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, October 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Smith, Sandra S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1 -April 30, 2000
Woolley, Charles B., M.S., Lecturer in Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1999- December 31, 2000


186




January Meeting, 2000


CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective October 1, 1999-September 30, 2002
Sierraalta, Marianella., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry,
(previously reported as Assistant Professor of Dentistry)
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Holmes, William., Ph.D., Lecturer in Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
(previously approved effective September 1-December 31, 1999)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Badran, Sarah, from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
Erba, Harry P., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, November 1, 1999-October 31, 2000
Goldberg, Caren S., from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical Assistant Professor
II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
Lash, Robert W., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, November 1, 1999-October 31, 2000
Pietrykowski, Bruce A., from Assistant Dean to Associate Dean, University of Michigan-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, January 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1-December 31, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Morley, George W., Norman F. Miller Professor Emeritus of Gynecology and Professor Emeritus of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Menge, Alan C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Krachenberg, A. R., Professor Emeritus of Management, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of
Management, January 1-April 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Duren, Peter L., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Kuhns, Lawrence R., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 2000
Lin, Liwei, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of
Engineering, personal leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Mayer, Richard H., Professor of Science Education, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn School
of Education, personal leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
McSparran, Katherine M. F., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Oberman, Harold A., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, phased,
October 1, 1998-June 20, 2002
Parsons, Michael G., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, extended sick leave, September 22-October 10, 1999
Shridhar, Malayappan, Chair and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, University
of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
Turcotte, Jeremiah G., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, retirement furlough, Medical School, January 1 -December 31, 2000


187




January Meeting, 2000


CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Lawrence, Ruth J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave canceled (previously reported effective January 1-May 31, 2000)
TERMINATIONS
Effective December 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Resigned
Baxter, Charles M., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Bell, John T., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
Schertzer, Robert M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical
School, October 31, 1999
Smith, Neil D., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, April 30, 1999
Steet, Linda M., Assistant Professor of Education, University of Michigan-Flint School of Education and
Human Services
Stojadinovic, Bozidar, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering
Strieter, Robert M., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, January 14, 2000
Webb, R. Clinton, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, December 8, 1999
Webb, Nancy C., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint School of
Education and Human Services
Retired
Butter, Charles M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Calahan, Donald A., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering
Domino, Edward F., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Kowal, Lubomyr M., Professor of Economics, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences
Larimore, Ann E., Professor of Geography and Women's Studies, with tenure, Residential College, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lawton, Richard G., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Schultz, Albert B., Vennema Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, Professor of
Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, and Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Shih, Chung-Tuo, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Tentler, Leslie W., Professor of History, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Term Completed
Berlin, Meryl, Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Buchs, Amaud O., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Burger, Michael F., Lecturer II in Natural Resources, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Climo, Alison H., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Crow, Jonathan C., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April
30, 1999
Diaz-Vidal, Jesus, Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Edwards, Tracy A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies and Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Ekida, Fusae, Lecturer II in Japanese, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Goyette, Kimberly A., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Guerreo-Kees, Oscar G., Lecturer I in Political Science, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Halverson, Cathryn L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 1999
Jindal, Usha R., Lecturer I in Hindi-Urdu, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Kinnen, Ryan M., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999


188




January Meeting, 2000


Mathur, Saloni, Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
1999
Matthews, Sebastian, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Oh, Kyung O., Lecturer I in Korean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Schroeter, Francois, Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Seetoo, Amy D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Sharp, Michael D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
1999
Sinclair, Lisa M., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Sofer, Andrew, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Walsh, Lisa K., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Weiss, Matthias M., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
White, Christine M., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Zambrano, Marjorie J., Lecturer II in Spanish, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1999
Retirement memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption eight
retirement memoirs.
Charles M. Butter, Ph.D., professor of psychology, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 1999, after a 37-year career at the University of Michigan.
Professor Butter received his A.B. degree from Harvard University in 1955 and his
Ph.D. degree from Duke University in 1959. Following a three-year appointment as a
postdoctoral fellow at the National Institute of Mental Health (1959-62), he came to the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor of psychology in 1962. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1965 and professor in 1968. He has held research
fellowships at Harvard University (1969-70); Oxford University (1976-77); Erasmus
University (the Netherlands; 1983-84); and the University of Florida (1986).
Professor Butter is a leading scholar in the field of brain mechanisms of attention.
His studies have illuminated the nature of deficits of visual attention that are caused by
various types of lesions of the neocortex or subcortical brain structures. A major focus
of his work has involved the perception of spatial relations and of visual objects in space
and the processing of space in relation to self, in order to clarify the neural controls that
direct attention. His research over the decades has also touched on other topics in
behavioral neuroscience and physiological psychology, ranging from associative
learning to the brain mechanisms of motivation and emotion. He is the author of over 65
research articles in peer-reviewed publications, a number of book chapters, and a book.
Currently he is at work on another book.
Professor Butter has been active in the American Psychological Association and is
a fellow of the American Psychological Association, the American Psychological
Society, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Within the
University, he has served on numerous committees and on the civil rights board of
SACUA. Professor Butter has mentored several generations of Ph.D. students in
biopsychology and has taught undergraduate courses in human neuropsychology and
physiological psychology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychologist by naming Charles M.
Butter professor emeritus of psychology.
Donald A. Calahan, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer
science in the College of Engineering, retired from active status on December 31, 1999,
after a distinguished career of thirty-three years at the University of Michigan.


189




January Meeting, 2000


Professor Calahan received his B.S.E.E. degree in 1957 from the University of
Notre Dame and his M.S.E.E. and Ph.D. degrees in 1958 and 1960, respectively, from
the University of Illinois. He joined the University of Michigan as an associate professor
in 1966 and was promoted to professor in 1970.
Professor Calahan's research focused on circuit theory, computer-aided circuit
design, and large-scale engineering/scientific computation. He has published numerous
journal and conference articles and several textbooks on computer-aided network design
and modern network synthesis and analysis. He also served as associate editor on
computational algorithms for IEEE Transactions on Computers and was a member of the
NASA Technical Advisory Board.
Professor Calahan was elected fellow of the Institute for Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (IEEE) in 1973. Within the University, he was awarded the prestigious Class
of 1938E Distinguished Service Award in 1968. He served as chair of financial aid for
the CICE program during 1975-81 and served on the ECE/EE Curriculum Committee
(1977-84) and the college Scholastic Standing Committee (1996-97). He has taught
many graduate and undergraduate EECS courses over the years in computer architecture
and high-speed computation and circuits, as well as in-service courses for non-electrical
engineering students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Donald A. Calahan
professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
Edward F. Domino, M.D., professor of pharmacology in the Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1999, after a long and productive career
as a scientist and educator.
Born in Chicago, Dr. Domino received B.S. degrees in 1948 and 1949, an M.S.
degree in 1951, and an M.D. degree in 1951, all from the University of Illinois. From
1951-53, he was an intern at Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago and instructor in
pharmacology at the University of Illinois College of Medicine. Dr. Domino joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan in 1953 as an instructor in pharmacology. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1954, associate professor in 1958, and professor in 1962.
Beginning in 1957, he also held an appointment at the Lafayette Clinic in Detroit. There he
served as director of the Laboratory of Pharmacology and of the Michigan
Neuropsychopharmacology Research Program from 1967-81 and director of clinical
psychopharmacology from 1981-83. From 1984-86, he was a clinical professor in the
Department of Psychiatry at Wayne State University School of Medicine.
Dr. Domino's research has focused on the broad field of neuropsychopharmacology, with its implications in anesthesiology, gerontology, neurology,
psychiatry, and toxicology. He has published more than 300 original research articles in
peer-reviewed journals and has authored or edited a dozen scientific books. He has served
brief terms as a visiting professor at a number of universities, both in the United States
and abroad. He has served on the editorial boards of approximately 20 scientific journals.
As a teacher, Dr. Domino has played a major role in the pharmacology courses for
second- and fourth-year medical students and also for medical students in the
neurosciences program. Further, he has taught in the pharmacology curriculum in the
dental and pharmacy schools and in programs for interns and residents at the University
Hospitals. He has served as a mentor to graduate students pursuing Ph.D. degrees in
pharmacology and to a very large number of postdoctoral fellows from around the world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist for his dedicated service by
naming Edward F. Domino professor emeritus of pharmacology.


190




January Meeting, 2000


Phillip A. Fellin, Ph.D., professor of social work, and former dean, School of
Social Work, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Fellin received his A.B. degree in sociology from St. Benedict's College
in Atchison, Kansas, in 1953 and his M.S.W. degree from St. Louis University in 1957.
He earned his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1959 and
1962, respectively, and joined the University of Michigan School of Social Work as an
associate professor and director of field instruction in 1965. He was promoted to
professor of social work in 1968. In 1969, Professor Fellin was appointed assistant dean
and in 1971 was named dean of the school, a post that he held for 10 years.
Professor Fellin attained national prominence as a social work educator and scholar.
Beginning in 1975, he served a three-year term as chair of the Commission for
Accreditation of the Council on Social Work Education.  He systematized field
instruction and created a much closer relationship between classroom content and
students' field activities. He increased the use of social science content and research in
social work education to the benefit of his students. His research and scholarly writing
focused on issues of policy, community-based care, the evaluation of diversity within
schools of social work and equal opportunities for women in social work education. His
most recent work has been in issues of multiculturalism, its definition and
conceptualization.
In addition to his dean appointment, Professor Fellin assumed leadership roles in
other capacities. He was elected to represent the School of Social Work on the University
of Michigan Senate Assembly. Within the School of Social Work, he served on the
administration curriculum program, casework curriculum program, honors committee, and
practice skill training task force. In 1981, he was chair of the advisory committee to the
executive board of the University of Michigan Children's Center. He was known as a
superior and simulating teacher who was able to bring together concepts and research
findings for his students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Phillip A.
Fellin professor emeritus of social work and dean emeritus.
Ann E. Larimore, Ph.D., professor of geography and women's studies in the
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Larimore received her B.A. degree from Wellesley College in 1952 and
her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Chicago in 1955 and 1958,
respectively. From 1961-66, she taught at Rutgers, Eastern Michigan, and Michigan
State universities. Professor Larimore joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1966
as a lecturer in the Department of Geography and in the Residential College. She was
promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1972. Since 1982, she has held
a joint appointment as a professor of geography and women's studies both in the
Residential College Social Science Program and in the LS&A Women's Studies
Program. She served as associate director of the Residential College from 1975-80 and
from 1981-88.
Throughout her academic career, cultural diversity has been at the forefront of
Professor Larimore's concerns. Even before the word "multiculturalism" became widely
utilized, she was studying the diverse cultural geography of East Africa and West Asia,
and she became an expert on the culturally variegated and complex society of Turkey.
Over the years, her areas of interest have also incorporated multicultural feminist
teaching strategies and philosophy, as well as interdisciplinary approaches to teaching


191




January Meeting, 2000


about the influence of cultural values especially concerning gender and ethnicity-on
resource use and environmental attitudes.
Professor Larimore has actively engaged in a wide variety of efforts to promote
greater diversity and greater cultural sensitivity among faculty and students at the
University of Michigan. She was a major participant in the organization FAIRteach
(UM Faculty and Staff Against Institutional Racism), and she has frequently participated
in a cluster of first-year seminars oriented to inter-group relations and issues of
intercultural diversity. For her dedication to diversity, she has received three University
awards: the Pathfinder Award (1991); the DreamKeeper Award (1993); and the Harold
R. Johnson Diversity Service Award (1999)
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Ann E. Larimore
professor emerita of geography and women's studies.
James S. Milne, Ph.D., professor of mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Milne received his B.Sc. Degree from Otago University, New Zealand, in
1963 and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1966 and 1967,
respectively. After receiving his doctorate, he was a lecturer at University College,
London, England from 1967-69. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor and Office of Naval Research fellow in 1969. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1972 and professor in 1977.
Professor Milne was a frequent visitor at the Institut des Hautes Etudes
Scientifiques, France, and at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University.
He also held visiting appointments at Kings College, London; Universite des Rennes,
France; and the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute, Berkeley, California.
His research focuses on arithmetical geometry, more specifically on Albelian
varieties and Shimura varieties. He solved many outstanding conjectures related to these
varieties. In the process, he developed or refined many of the tools used in arithmetical
geometry. He is the author of forty-five research papers and four books; his books are
used as basic references in his field. His writing is succinct and tightly focused. He is a
superb lecturer and has written many lecture notes. Professor Milne directed ten doctoral
theses and gave unstintingly to all students, undergraduate and graduate.
Professor Milne is an outstanding mountain climber and is particularly fond of the
challenges presented in Nepal. On a number of occasions, he opened new ascents in
Nepal and South America.
The Regents now salute this valued faculty member by naming James S. Milne
professor emeritus of mathematics.
Albert B. Schultz, Ph.D., Vennema Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, professor of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics, and
professor of biomedical engineering in the College of Engineering, and research scientist
in the Institute of Gerontology, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Schultz received his B.S. degree from the University of Rochester in
1955 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Yale University in 1959 and 1962,
respectively. He served on the faculties of the University of Delaware and the University
of Illinois at Chicago before joining the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1983 as
the Vennema Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics. Professor
Schultz also held appointments as a professor of biomedical engineering in the College
of Engineering and as a research scientist in the Institute of Gerontology.


192




January Meeting, 2000


Professor Schultz is internationally recognized for his biomechanics research, reported
in more than 130 publications. His early research explored the mechanics of idiopathic
scoliosis and low back pain. More recently, he has studied-from the viewpoint of
engineering mechanics-the assessment, treatment, and prevention of physical problems
and injuries that commonly arise in older populations. He is a member of the National
Academy of Engineering (NAE), fellow in the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers (ASME), past president of the International Society for the Lumbar Spine, and
cofounder and past president of the American Society of Biomechanics (ASB). He has
received the College of Engineering's Research Excellence and Steven S. Attwood
Awards, the University of Michigan's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award, and
the NIH Research Career and Javits Neuroscience Investigator Awards. Other honors
include the ASB's Borelli Award and the ASME's H. R. Lissner Award for his
outstanding research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scholar by naming Albert
B. Schultz the Vennema Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, professor emeritus of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics,
professor emeritus of biomedical engineering, and research scientist emeritus.
Leslie W. Tentler, Ph.D., professor of history at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999, after a
distinguished career as a teacher and scholar.
Professor Tentler received her A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. degrees in 1967, 1972, and
1975, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. She joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn as an instructor in 1973. She was promoted to
associate professor in 1980 and professor in 1988.
Professor Tentler was noted for her brilliant versatility in teaching a wide array of
courses ranging from labor history, women's history, immigration, family in American
history, and religion in American history, to the Civil Rights Movement, contemporary
Christianity, and American urban history. Her research interests have focused on
women's history, labor and immigration, ethnicity and religious history, and
contemporary Catholicism. Her most prominent work was represented in Wage-Earning
Women. Industrial Employment and Family Life in the United States, 1900-1930
(Oxford University Press, 1989) and in Seasons of Grace. A History of the Catholic
Archdiocese of Detroit (Wayne State University Press, 1990), the definitive history of
the Archdiocese of Detroit.
Professor Tentler has been a member of the executive committee of the American
Catholic Historical Association (1995-98), a member of the editorial board of the
Michigan Historical Review (1995-98), and a member of the faculty advisory committee
of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism at the University of Notre
Dame. In recognition of her accomplishments as a scholar, the Dearborn campus
awarded her the 1996 Distinguished Faculty Research Award.
During her career, Professor Tentler has served the University in a variety of ways
including as a member of the Senate Assembly Committee on Tenure, the President's
Advisory Committee on Women's Issues, and the college executive committee.
The Regents now salute this accomplished teacher and scholar for her dedicated
service by naming Leslie W. Tentler professor emerita of history.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
President Bollinger reported on the deaths of Warren "Herb" Wagner, renown
authority on ferns and professor emeritus; Freeman Miller, professor emeritus of


193




January Meeting, 2000


astronomy; and Hilda Kurtz, longtime lab technician and instructor in the Department
of Epidemiology, who had served as a research assistant for Jonas Salk early in her
career.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. Regent Taylor moved approval of the consent
agenda; Regent White seconded the motion. Regent Taylor commented positively on
the "phenomenal" fundraising results reported this month. The vote was then taken, and
the motion was approved unanimously.
Keweenaw Rocket Launch Site
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the Keweenaw Rocket Launch Site
had been sold to the Nature Conservancy at a price of $437,500.
Amendment to License Agreement with HealthMedia, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to a previously approved license agreement with
HealthMedia, Inc. Regent Deitch was not present when the vote was taken. Because
Victor J. Strecher is both a University of Michigan faculty member and owner of
HealthMedia, Inc., this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The  following  information  is provided  in  compliance with   statutory
requirements:
1.    Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and HealthMedia, Inc.
2.    Contract terms include:
A royalty percentage of 3.5 percent of Net Fees until September 1, 2001, after which it
decreases to 3.0 percent until September 1, 2003, after which the royalty is 2.0 percent.
For sublicensing, the royalty percentage is 20 percent of Gross Sublicensing Revenues
until September 1, 2002, after which it decreases to 15 percent until September 1, 2005,
after which the royalty is 10 percent.
3.    Victor Strecher's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in HealthMedia, Inc.
(HMI). He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received
by the University from HMI.
Reassignment Agreement with Gary J. Nabel ("A Method for Rapid Generation of
High-Titer Viral Vectors for Use in Gene Therapy")
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement with Gary J. Nabel, M.D., Ph.D.
Regent Deitch was not present when the vote was taken. Because Dr. Nabel is a former
University of Michigan faculty member who retains an unpaid faculty appointment, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Gary J. Nabel, M.D., Ph.D.
2.    Terms of the agreement include payment to the University on a quarterly basis of
fifteen percent (15%) of royalties, equity, or other value received by Dr. Nabel through
subsequent marketing and licensing of the invention. There will be no use of
University facilities and services without appropriate approvals.


194




January Meeting, 2000


Reassignment Agreement with Gary J. Nabel ("Methods and Compositions for
Tumor Induction")
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment of the invention, "Methods for Compositions for
Tumor Induction." Because Dr. Nabel is a former University of Michigan faculty
member who retains an unpaid faculty appointment, this agreement falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Gary J. Nabel, M.D., Ph.D.
2.    Terms of agreement include payment to the University on a quarterly basis of fifteen
percent (15%) of royalties, equity, or other value received by Dr. Nabel through
subsequent marketing and licensing of the invention. There will be no use of
University facilities and services without appropriate approvals.
Reassignment Agreement with Gary J. Nabel and Jian-Jun Chen ("Methods and
Compositions for Inhibiting the Pro-Inflammatory Response")
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement with Gary J. Nabel and Jian-Jun Chen for
the   intellectual  property  "Methods   and   Compositions    for  Inhibiting  the
Pro-Inflammatory Response." Because Dr. Nabel is a former University of Michigan
faculty member who retains an unpaid faculty appointment, and Dr. Chen is a current
staff member, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The following   information  is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan, Gary J. Nabel, M.D., Ph.D.,
and Jian-Jun Chen, M.D., Ph.D.
2.    Terms of agreement include payment to the University on a quarterly basis of fifteen
percent (15%) of royalties, equity, or other value received by Drs. Nabel and Chen
through subsequent marketing and licensing of the invention. There will be no use of
University facilities and services without appropriate approvals.
Henry Russel Awards for 2000
President Bollinger noted that Jeffrey A. Fessler, associate professor of electrical
engineering and computer science and associate professor of biomedical engineering in
the College of Engineering, and associate professor of internal medicine in the Medical
School, and Webb Keane, associate professor of anthropology in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, had been selected to receive Henry Russel Awards for
2000.
University Audits/Financial Operations
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that Robert Moenart had
agreed to serve as the first executive director of university audits. He also announced
that Fred White would serve as interim director of financial operations and interim
controller pending the conclusion of a nationwide search for the permanent position of
director of financial operations.


195




January Meeting, 2000


Establishment of the Department of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and
Physics (CSESP) at UM-Flint
Provost McLaughlin requested approval for the establishment of a new
Department of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics (CSESP), which
would be created by combining the Departments of Computer Science and Physics and
Engineering Science.  On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent
McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved establishment of the Department of
Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics (CSESP) as described in the
Regents Communication.
Salaries
President Bollinger noted that the annual report of faculty and staff salaries was
being released that day.
President's Salary. Regent Deitch made the following statement:
"The Board of Regents has conducted President Bollinger's annual
performance review, as called for in his letter of engagement. During that
review, we unanimously agreed that the president's performance has been
superlative. In my judgment, there are two principle reasons for that. First,
Mr. President, you are a pleasure to work with. You lead with a unique
combination of logic, values, data, and heart. You are a person with whom one
may disagree without needing to be disagreeable.  Second, and most
importantly, you brought to your position an uncompromising commitment to
excellence which has manifested itself in a wide array of tangible achievements
and intangible benefits.
Therefore, I move that the president's annual base salary be increased
approximately 50, from $295,996 to $311,000, effective September 1, 1999,
and continuing through August 31, 2000. I would note that we are taking
action on this increase at this time in an effort to coincide with the release of the
general institutional salary schedules, all of which carry an effective date of
September 1, 1999. "
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
President Bollinger thanked the Board, noting that he enjoys his work and feels
very fortunate to be serving as president. He thanked his wife, Jean, for her many
contributions to the University and acknowledged the spouses of the executive officers
and all of those who work in administration. He concluded by thanking the Regents for
all of their efforts on behalf of the University.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:05 a.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for February 17, 2000.


196




January Meeting, 2000


Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


197




FEBRUARY MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 17, 2000
The Regents convened at 9:50 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also
present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Interim Chancellor Klein, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice
President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Interim Vice President Harper, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, and Vice President and Secretary Tedesco
arrived after the start of the meeting. Regents Deitch and Horning were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Executive Vice
President Kasdin.
Burton Tower Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the Regents had previously approved
the Burton Memorial Tower Renovation Project and appointment of Quinn
Evans/Architects as designers. He noted that the architects have determined that relocating
the main entrance and maintaining the existing door as a second means of egress from
the building will be necessary for improving fire safety. He called on Mike Quinn of
Quinn Evans/Architects.
Mr. Quinn noted that the renovation was meant primarily to address improvements
in life safety features and infrastructure. He reviewed the modifications that are being
planned to address these and the inadequacy of the existing two means of egress as
well. He noted that the original windows are also going to be rehabilitated.
Following the presentation, Regent Newman moved approval of the design of the
Burton Memorial Tower Renovation Project, as presented. Regent McGowan seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Review of Capital Initiatives and Capital Projects
Fiscal Year 2001 Capital Outlay Submission. Executive Vice President Kasdin
noted that the Fiscal Year 2001 Capital Outlay submission is included in the agenda as
an information item. He emphasized that although in the coming months plans for a
number of new facilities will be put forward, the majority of resources are being
invested in rehabilitation and reuse of the existing capital plant.
1997 Master Planning Initiative. Executive Vice President Kasdin reviewed
efforts being made to implement the Master Plan initiative approved by the Regents in
1997. These include an overview of the master planning effort with a focus on concept
planning for the Palmer Drive area presented in May 1999, a discussion of central
campus facilities held in September 1999, a review of Medical Center facilities today, a
presentation on East Ann Arbor properties scheduled for Spring 2000, and a discussion
of North Campus to be held in Fall 2000. He observed how important and helpful the
conceptual framework provided by the master planning effort has been to setting
priorities for capital planning from an academic perspective.


197




February Meeting, 2000


Executive Vice President Kasdin announced that Marina Roeloff has been appointed
as director of plant extension and noted that the appointment of Ms. Roeloff as director
will greatly enhance the development of capital project planning over the next few years.
He also announced that from this point onward, the University will be outsourcing
construction management of many major projects, which is a departure from the past
practice of managing all projects internally.
Executive Vice President Kasdin also suggested a method for increasing the
flexibility in the process by which action requests for capital projects are brought to the
Board. Under the existing system, a series of three requests are typically made per major
project (approval of project and appointment of architect; approval of schematic design;
and authorization to present project for bids). He pointed out that time and money could be
saved by bidding some projects in segments, rather than the traditional method of not
bidding the project until all construction drawings have been substantially completed. This
process will be invoked selectively, and a rationale will be given each time plans are made
to bid this way on major projects.
Executive Vice President Kasdin also said that he intended to institute the practice
of conducting audits of certain construction projects after they have been completed,
comparing actual costs to projected costs.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that rehabilitation of the physical plant
is financed through the infrastructure and maintenance fee assessed to students and
through the state capital outlay program. He called on Vice President Wilbanks to
describe the recently revised capital outlay process.
Capital Outlay. Vice President Wilbanks described the recent history of capital
outlay on the Ann Arbor campus. She noted that although the University submits a
request for capital outlay priority annually, the state does not fund a capital outlay
project for higher education on a yearly basis. In addition, even when the state
approves capital outlay projects for every university, the financing for these projects is
dependent upon raising the state bonding authority cap, which doesn't always occur.
She displayed a chart illustrating the capital outlay expenditures that have been
approved for the Ann Arbor Campus since 1990. These total about $200 million.
Vice President Wilbanks noted that since 1996 there have been two significant
changes in state capital outlay procedures: For the first time, universities were required
to provide a 25% match to the state's 75% funding for all projects, and the 25% match
must be spent before the state's share is applied. Secondly, in 1999 a new process for
authorizing capital outlay projects was established, requiring the development of a
five-year capital outlay "master plan" from each institution. The expectation is that all
requests for major projects will arise from this five-year comprehensive planning
document.
The new process was established to reduce the number of approvals required for
capital outlay projects. During years when capital outlay programs are authorized, the
first thing that is authorized is for project planning. This is meant to enable the
production of detailed planning documents in order to provide a firmer cost estimate
which is likely to be maintained for the term of the project's construction. She noted
that further changes to the capital outlay process are being considered by the Joint
Capital Outlay Committee.


198




February Meeting, 2000


Fiscal Year 2001 Capital Outlay Submission. Executive Vice President Kasdin
noted that the Dana Building renovation project has been approved and is in process. The
current top priority for funding is the School of Public Health Building. Next in priority are
the Horace H. Rackham Building renovation and Hill Auditorium renovation. The remainder
of the project priorities are designed to be flexible to adjust to state funding opportunities.
Regarding the Frieze Building, Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that
consideration is now being given to replacement, rather than renovation, of the Frieze
Building. He also said that there are a number of projects not on the capital outlay list
which will require fundraising and noted deans have been asked to consider their
academic priorities in preparation for the upcoming capital campaign.
Zina Pitcher Site and Medical Center Master Planning. Executive Vice
President Kasdin said that a recommendation for a major laboratory research facility on
the Zina Pitcher block would be presented in the coming months and observed that this
raises the question of whether construction of this type of building at that site would be
consistent with master planning underway in the rest of the medical center. He displayed
photographs, maps, and diagrams illustrating past and current uses of the Medical Campus
area. He pointed out how the Medical Campus is divided from the rest of the campus by
Huron Street and Washtenaw Avenue and the impact this dividing line has on activity
between the two campuses.
He displayed a site plan of the Palmer Drive Project Site Plan, which will include
a research laboratory building, a pedestrian bridge, and a skyway connecting the
laboratory building to the "sliver building" or "commons building," which will become
a common area containing dining facilities and meeting rooms. The medical research
laboratory building and Life Science Institute building will both be used for life science
research.
He displayed several other photographs and site plans that illustrate potential
building sites for the Medical Campus, describing the capacities of the various sites. He
noted that a strong diagonal can be created through the two Zina Pitcher blocks and into
the heart of the Medical Center. Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that there is
no recognizable sense of place from an architectural perspective on the Medical Campus,
and that one goal is to rectify this. He also noted that long-term plans include moving
traffic more around the perimeter of the Medical Campus, and this could include
closing Zina Pitcher (between Ann and Catherine Streets) and converting Glen Street
into a two-way thoroughfare. More efficient use of buses is also being examined. He
also discussed possible uses of the "Old Main" site and illustrated potential building
and parking sites on Wall Street.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the goal of these studies is to give the
Health System a framework for evaluating its priorities and future development options.
Regarding parking, he noted that staff are evaluating traffic and parking issues together
and are considering adding on to existing structures in addition to building new structures.
It was pointed out that most Medical Campus buildings are connected, and that they
would continue to be in the new configuration. Regent Newman noted that it is very
confusing for patients to find their way around to the various clinic and hospital sites on
the Medical Campus and to determine which structure to park in for which site. Executive
Vice President Kasdin and Executive Vice President Omenn pointed out that a


199




February Meeting, 2000


wayfinding project has been initiated, but many of the improvements have not yet been
implemented. He noted that efforts are being made to improve this situation by
including maps and other wayfinding information in appointment confirmation mailings
and phone calls, but that officials are aware that much more needs to be done with
traffic patterns, exterior signage, and interior wayfinding.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the transportation and parking departments
have been combined, in an effort to get the University community to think of transportation
and parking as one system. He and Executive Vice President Omenn noted that innovative
programs, both within the University and in conjunction with the city, have been put into
place in an effort to alleviate crowding in parking structures and on thoroughfares, and
that these are beginning to have an effect.
Further discussion ensued about the chronic shortage of parking on campus. It
was noted that the addition of the Palmer Drive structure and Forest Street addition will
alleviate the situation, but that ultimately, people need to be convinced alternative
measures will be convenient and reliable enough for them to change their habits.
Improvements in bicycle security and convenience was mentioned as another option to
automobile transportation.
Medical Center Master Planning. Executive Vice President Omenn indicated
that the Kresge Medical Research Buildings would be replaced, and that a new research
laboratory building will be organized by program area. He observed that there are two
important priorities: to have clinicians and basic scientists in closer proximity to each
other and to have the Medical Campus more integrated with the rest of the University.
Medical Center officials are satisfied that building the large complex on the Zina
Pitcher site, along with the pedestrian crossways to the Palmer Drive site and commons
area to be located there will serve the second priority.
Regarding the other priority, it is expected that scientists involved in basic
research will be located in the new Zina Pitcher site, and that active clinical faculty who
also conduct research will most likely be housed in the Medical Science Buildings I and II
that have direct connections to the hospital. He noted that a complete presentation on the
facility proposed for the Zina Pitcher site will be given at the next meeting by Dean
Lichter.
Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby introduced two professors associated with the Office of Tax
Policy Research in the School of Business Administration: Joel Slemrod, the Paul
McCracken Collegiate Professor of Business Economics, professor of business economics
and public policy, and professor of economics; and James Hines, professor of business
economics and public policy. Professors Slemrod and Hines discussed the activities of
the Office of Tax Policy Research.
The meeting recessed at 11:35 a.m.
The meeting reconvened at 1:45 p.m. Present were President Bollinger and
Regents Brandon, Maynard, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost
Cantor, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Chancellor Mestas,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President
Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Interim Vice President Harper and Vice President
and General Counsel Krislov arrived after the start of the meeting; Regent McGowan


200




February Meeting, 2000


arrived at about 2:20 p.m. Regents Deitch and Horning and Vice President Feagin were
absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and began consideration of the
business agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted the minutes for the
January 2000 meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Litigation Report. The Regents received the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established for January 2000. He noted that according to figures recently released by
the National Science Foundation, the University of Michigan continues to have the
largest volume of research of any U.S. college or university. He commented that all of
the funding is awarded on the basis of competitive peer review, and that the University
has a policy of not participating in "set-aside" funding.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Mr. Bram Elias, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, and Mr. Abe Rafi, chair of MSA Student Rights Commission,
addressed the Board about MSA's proposed amendments to the Code of Student Conduct.
The recommendations include having the code apply to faculty and staff as well as
students, based on MSA's perception that there are a sizable number of staff filing
charges on behalf of students who do not want to file a charge.
Regarding concerns expressed about the scope of the code, Regent Maynard
pointed out that a lot of things taking place off campus, such as in fraternity and sorority
houses, affect students and involve the University community. Mr. Rafi responded that
MSA recognizes the concern about Greek organizations, but in general, does not believe
that the code should apply to behavior occurring off campus.  Following some
discussion, it was determined that there is no real discrepancy between what the current
language says and what is desired by MSA in this regard.  President Bollinger
commented that he is in favor of exploring seriously the question of regulating hazing.
Other concerns include when and under what circumstances the code should
apply, as opposed to civil or criminal proceedings, as well as how code hearings should
be conducted and what standards of evidence should be applied. A copy of the
proposals can be found in the Regents Communication.
Following the discussion of code revision proposals, President Bollinger thanked
Mr. Elias and Mr. Rafi for the thoughtful input they had provided.
Regarding the next steps, it was noted that several other groups will be reviewing
all proposed amendments, after which they will be submitted to President Bollinger,
who can choose to either approve them or return them for further revision and
resubmission for the president's consideration.
Mr. Elias emphasized that it is difficult to disseminate information about the code
to the general student body. He also stated that although MSA is eager to participate in


201




February Meeting, 2000


the process of amending and improving the code, this does not imply that MSA
supports the idea of a code per se.
Health System Report. Executive Vice President Omenn distributed press
packets to the Regents highlighting the fact that an entire issue of the Journal of the
American    Medical Association    had   been   devoted   to  a  celebration  of the
sesquicentennial of the University of Michigan Medical School.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Interim Chancellor Klein reported that the
campus was preparing its testimony to the Michigan Senate Higher Education
Appropriations Subcommittee, at a meeting to be held on the Dearborn campus. He
also noted that the state attorney general would be the guest speaker at the campus'
annual Susan B. Anthony Awards Dinner.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that all is well on the
Flint campus.
Voluntary Support. The Regents received the Report of Voluntary Support for
January 2000.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the Schools of Medicine, Nursing and Public Health, for scholarships
in the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for employee
matching gifts..........................................................  $  25,485
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 5,000
Aetna Foundation, Inc., Hartford, Connecticut
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts.................. 32,450
ALCOA, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................  30,000
Derrick S. Alexander, Leawood, Kansas
100 shares of Internet Capital Group, Inc., and
78 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................  25,258
Robert I. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
4,650 shares of Fannie Mae common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 287,283
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  11,647
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 95,134
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and the Division of Kinesiology........................... 217,863
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts..................................................  9,126
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  5,300
Gordon L. Amidon, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support in the College of Pharmacy... 5,500
Susan K. Amster, Los Angeles, California
116 shares of Plantronic, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Herbert S. and Carol L.
Amster Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School............................. 7,848
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
2,900 shares of various corporate common stock
for research in the College of Engineering.....................................  199,975
Thomas K. Andison, Maryville
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 15,000
Russell L. Anmuth, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................... 25,000


202




February Meeting, 2000


Aronoff Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School............................................ 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School.............................................  9,500
AstraZeneca, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School.............................................  5,000
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for the Schmidt Family Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................. 25,000
Autoliv North America, Inc., Auburn Hills
for the EIC Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................... 7,500
Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Daniel C. Maier Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Robert A. Ballard, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School.............................................  5,000
Stella Banka, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Music, in memory of Joseph Wojczynski................. 5,000
Marjorie Baril, Perrysburg, Ohio
for the James D. Baril, M.D., Orthopaedic Surgery Education Endowment, Medical School... 10,000
A. P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
200 shares of Foremost Corporation of America common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Ernst & Young Scholarship
and the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration............... 6,100
Jacob J. Bedenik, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 6,000
Nancy D. Berkowitz, New York, New York
for the Nancy Dolinko-Berkowitz Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 10,000
Berlex Laboratories, Inc., Wayne, New Jersey
for the BRS Radiology Endowment in the Medical School......................... 22,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the Richard A. Flinn Scholarship in
the  College  of Engineering..................................................  31,000
BICCGeneral Cable Industries, Inc., Highland Heights, Kentucky
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering..................................................  30,000
Birmingham Revocable Trust
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
Bishop International Airport Authority, Flint
for  W U O M...............................................................  7,719
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for the Trauma Bum Center Firefighter's Fund and other support in the Medical School...... 9,000
Robert P. Boardman, Jr., Littleton, Colorado
1,275 shares of American Home Products Corporation common stock
for the Robert Boardman MBA Class of 1950 Endowment Scholarship in the School
of Business Adm inistration..................................................  50,920
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for em ployee m atching  gifts..................................................  7,921
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration............. 20,000
Paul A. Bonkowski, Troy
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.... 5,075
Gerard P. Bosscher, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic Fund in the School of Dentistry.................... 5,000
John R. Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................... 20,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  8,000
Britax Automotive Component Division, Portchester, United Kingdom
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Thomas H. Brown, Palm City, Florida
1,500 shares of Butler Plastics Company common stock
for Academic Projects support............................................... 100,500
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  97,500
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for research in the Comprehensive
Cancer Center and the Medical School, and for the University Musical Society.......... 5,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
160 shares of Whirlpool Corporation common stock


203




February Meeting, 2000


for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Fund in the School of Business Administration
and for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 10,345
Chris F. Calloway, Matteson, Illinois
100 shares of Micromuse, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics...................................... 15,975
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................... 5,000
Laurie K. Carr Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................. 50,000
Abbot Chambers, San Francisco, California
350 shares of At Home Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Information........................................ 14,963
Robert C. Chambers II, West Bloomfield
48 shares of Texas Instruments, Inc., and
22 shares of Mannesmann AG common stock
for the Robert C. Chambers Endowment in the Department of Athletics.............. 10,312
Steven B. Chameides, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School.................................. 5,000
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........ 10,000
Walter H. Channing Trust
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  9,082
Robert W. Chapman, Suttons Bay
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  10,000
David G. Chardovoyne, Farmington Hills
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and Jerry Hanlon Endowed Football Lineman
Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  7,250
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Ramon, California
for em ployee m atching  gifts..................................................  7,227
Children's Benefit Fund, Inc., Rochelle Park, New Jersey
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital.......................................... 50,000
Cleveland A. Christophe, Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 25,000
Forrest D. Colegrove, Jr., Dallas, Texas
215 shares of Telephone and Data Systems common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 25,047
Community Foundation for Northeast Michigan, Alpena
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................... 36,500
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health
and for other support at the University of Michigan............................... 15,050
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship..........................................  10,000
James P. Conley, Ann Arbor
957 units of Oak Mark Small Cap Fund mutual fund
for the Conley Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.................... 11,580
Paul Connell, Milford, Ohio
14,070 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Priscilla H. Connell Award Endowment in the College of Literature, Science
and  the   A rts.............................................................  581,927
Consumers Energy, Jackson
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts................... 8,723
William B. Corlis, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 25,000
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
for the University Hospitals and the University Musical Society...................... 5,100
Andrew S. Crawford, Ann Arbor
3,000 par municipal bonds for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........... 31,479
Gayle C. Crick, Indianapolis, Indiana
440 shares of Eli Lily & Company common stock
for the Gayle C. Crick Scholarship for Women, the Ara G. Paul Professorship, and other
support in  the College of Pharmacy............................................ 30,264
Rebecca E. Crown Business Account, Chicago, Illinois
for the Glenn M. Knudsvig Memorial Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the M edical School.............................................  28,045
John Dahlgren, Punta Gorda, Florida
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital, in memory of Hilda and Harley Miles........... 10,000


204




February Meeting, 2000


Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
244 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Pharmacy......................................... 12,040
DaimlerChrysler, Dayton, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering....................................... 18,005
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for employee matching gifts.................................................  26,730
William T. Darnton, Winnetka, Illinois
270 shares of Charles Schwab International Index Fund common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the College of Engineering............. 5,130
Dayton Hudson Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University Musical Society............................................ 28,500
Dearborn Firefighters, Dearborn
for the Dearborn Firefighter's Bur Drive Endowment and other support in the Medical
School...................................................................  5,500
Roger DeMeritt, Rotonda West, Florida
728 units of Nicholas II Fund mutual fund for research in the Comprehensive Cancer
C enter................................................................... 25,000
Malcolm L. Denise Living Trust
for support of the Law School and for the Denise Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  5,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship...........................................  5,000
John F. Dobbertin, Jr., Woodstock, Illinois
for the  Gargoyle  Scholarship.................................................. 5,000
Documentum, Inc., Pleasanton, California
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 10,000
Everett R. Doehr, San Diego, California
160 shares of Finova Group, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 5,565
Arthur Dole III, Naples, Florida
670 shares of Eaton Corporation common stock
for baseball support in the Department of Athletics............................... 49,098
Dixon R. Doll, San Francisco, California
500 shares of Remedy Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 22,516
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and for the Museum of Art.... 11,700
William D. Drake, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and for the Nanette
R. LaCross M emorial Prize Fund.............................................  11,370
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
1,000 units of Van Kampen American Capital Equity Opportunity Trust mutual fund
for the Robert B. Dunlap Endowment in the Medical School........................ 16,250
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 19,100
Frederick A. Erb, Bloomfield Hills
2,000 shares of Yahoo, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowments in the Schools of Business
Administration and Natural Resources and Environment.......................... 753,500
Eugene P. Ericksen, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................  10,000
Roy A. Euker, New York, New York
for the Gordon Euker Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and  U rban  Planning........................................................  45,000
Executive Recruiters, Southfield
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 5,000
Federated Department Stores Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 5,000
Frank B. Fehsenfeld, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 5,000
Fentex International Corporation, White Plains, New York
for the Mimar Sinan Fund for Turkish Studies in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts..............................................................  25,000
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Loganberry Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, for the 75th Anniversary
Challenge Gift Fund in the School of Business Administration, for the Nanette R.
LaCross Memorial Prize Fund, and for other support at the University of Michigan..... 339,450


205




February Meeting, 2000


Georg Fischer DISA, Inc., Holly
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 5,000
Russell H. Fiske, Sr., Richmond, Virginia
730 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Russell H. Fiske Scholarship and other support in the College of Pharmacy and
for support in the School of Nursing........................................... 45,690
Sidney Forbes, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the S. M. Wu Symposium Gift Fund in the College of Engineering............... 10,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...........................................  25,000
Foundation of Federated Garden Clubs of Michigan, Inc., Tawas City
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 6,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel Shetzer Endowed Professorship, the Frankel Family Graduate Student
Aid Fund, and the Yiddish Lecturer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts................................................................ 203,750
Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Norman Freehling Visiting Professorship in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts...............................................................  7,500
Emmalyn E. Freeman Trust
for research in the Medical School, for support of the Law School, and for the Ralph M.
and Emma Freeman Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 526,937
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
571 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Edward P. Frohlich Graduate Fellowship in Piano and other support in the School
of Music and for support of the Law  School....................................  49,677
Ralph N. Funk, Warren
for support in the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center..................................... 10,000
Stella Gaebler Estate
for support in  the M edical School.............................................  45,000
Benjamin F. Garmer III, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
96 shares of Computer Sciences Corporation common stock
for the Foley &  Lardner Fund in the Law  School.................................. 7,212
Warren E. Gast, St. Joseph
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................... 10,000
Patricia Gehlert Trust
for the Patricia Gehlert Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Patricia  Gehlert Endowm ent.................................................  50,000
John W. Geissman, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 8,000
John W. Gelder, Bingham Farms
for support of the Law   School................................................. 5,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  49,750
General Electric Company Lighting, East Cleveland, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.................... 5,000
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................... 5,000
Gilmour-Jirgens Trust
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration....................................................  65,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., 1996 Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 6,258
Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, DC
for the Joseph I. and Ellen W. Goldstein Fund in the Law School.................... 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research and in the Center for Human Growth
and  D evelopm ent.........................................................  170,579
James N. Gray Construction Company, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Sylvia Green, Melrose Park, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 100,000
Jane Waterson Griswold, Cleveland, Ohio
55 shares of BP Amoco and 12 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,146


206




February Meeting, 2000


Barry H. Gross, Ann Arbor
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School......................... 5,000
Guidant Corporation-Cardiology Pacemakers, St. Paul, Minnesota
for research in the Medical School............................................  15,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Great Lakes Radio Consortium Fund..................................... 30,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 50,000
Mark L. Haddox, Ann Arbor
150 shares of RF Micro Devices, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering, for research in the Comprehensive Cancer
Center, and for the Museum of Art............................................ 10,370
William K. Hall, Winnetka, Illinois
1,000 shares of Kroger Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 19,125
Michael R. Hallman, Redmond, Washington
20,000 shares of Network Appliance, Inc., common stock
for the Michael and Mary Hallman Endowed Faculty Fund in the School of Business
Administration......................................................... 1,648,750
Linda B. Halsey, East Lansing
for the Linda Britton Halsey and John R. Halsey Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts..............................................................  10,000
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Avon, Connecticut
for the Beverly Lannquist Hamilton Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  5,000
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the Medical School and for the University Library...................... 5,000
F. Philip Handy, Winter Park, Florida
for entrepreneurial studies support in the School of Business Administration........... 50,000
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Anne Vance Hatcher, Ann Arbor
1,081 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund....................................... 24,762
Nola A. Havelka, Ithaca
for the Havelka Family Scholarship in the College of Engineering................... 10,000
Thomas W. Hawkins, Miami Beach, Florida
1,000 shares of Gerald Stevens, Inc., common stock
for political science and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 9,500
Barnett C. Helzberg, Jr., Trustee, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. 333,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library..... 32,500
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the North Campus Nursing Clinic Fund in the School of Nursing................. 10,000
Hockaday Family Fund of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and
Affiliated Trust, Mission Hills, Kansas
for the Irvine and Ellen Hockaday Fund in the Law School.......................... 6,500
Jon R. Holt, Mound, Minnesota
for the Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Endowment in the College of Engineering.......... 750,000
James D. Holzhauer, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,000
William N. Hubbard, Jr., Kalamazoo
700 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for support in  the M edical School.............................................  41,256
Gordon W. Hueschen Trust
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics and for support of the
L aw   School...............................................................  6,000
James Huntington Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 5,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 113,800
Elizabeth B. Hutchcroft, Rockford, Illinois
for support in the School of Education, in memory of Lawrence Conrey................ 5,000
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
400 shares of Intel Corporation common stock


207




February Meeting, 2000


for the Norman F. Miller Professorship in the Medical School and for gifts pending
designation...............................................................33,463
Judith Huttenlocher, Clarkston
704 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration...... 16,346
Integral Investments, Novi
for the Men's Soccer Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,000
Integrated Communications Corporation, Parsippany, New Jersey
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................... 5,000
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Social Work, for the Hill Auditorium
Restoration Fund, and for the University Musical Society........................... 7,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for student aid in the School of Business Administration........................... 10,000
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
500 shares of XL Capital LTD-CIA common stock
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship, School of Business Administration.... 26,031
James B. Jordan, Decatur, Georgia
for support of the Law  School................................................. 5,000
JP Morgan, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,700 shares of Symix Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................  26,988
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  27,583
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts...............................................................  6,000
Graham Kalton, Rockville, Maryland
625 shares of British American Tobacco common stock
for research in the Institute for Social Research...................................  6,895
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the Snip Nalan Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....................... 30,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Law School, the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and the University Library..................................  6,500
Stella Kaufman Trust
for support of the Law School, in memory of Jack Lande........................... 10,000
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 5,000
A T Kearney, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
M. David Keil, Hinsdale, Illinois
278 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 8,767
Richard Kerr, Battle Creek
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital.......................................... 28,470
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital.......................................... 42,868
Robert M. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Robert M. and Wallis C. Klein Darrow Merit Scholarship and other support in
the Law School and for the Victor W. and Ruth A. Klein Scholarship................. 17,386
James P. Kleinberg, Palo Alto, California
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
Robert B. Knauss, San Marino, California
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
Herbert Kohn, Kansas City, Missouri
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................  11,700
William G. Kring, Massapequa, New York
100 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Margaret Rinderknecht Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music and for
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 6,031
F. Bruce Kulp, Ypsilanti
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock


208




February Meeting, 2000


for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and for the Karlene Kulp
Research Fund in the Medical School........................................... 5,100
Bert La Du, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School.............................................. 5,000
Eugene M. Lang Foundation, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support of the Law  School................................................. 5,000
Paul L. Lee, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School................................................. 5,000
Evelyn J. Lehman, New York, New York
for the Lehman Family Scholarship in the Law School............................. 12,000
Robert R. Levine, Clifton, Virginia
180 shares of SLM Holding Corporation common stock
for gifts pending designation.................................................. 7,892
Kirk J. Lewis, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Department of Athletics....................................... 5,000
L.G. Securities, Kyunggi-Province, South Korea
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center Fund, School of Business Administration.... 60,000
Jerome B. Libin, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School................................................. 6,000
David E. Liddle, Portola Valley, California
for the David E. Liddle Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 15,000
Thomas C. Liebman, Lake Barrington, Illinois
for the  Clem ents Library.....................................................  5,000
Daniel E. Lipschutz, Ann Arbor
for the Susan Lipschutz Endowment, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 5,000
Jeffrey Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Gertrude Nadich Liss Funds in the Law School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  5,000
Paul Chi Liu, Canton
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 15,000
Stuart and Deena Lockman Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation
of Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills;
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
Barrie L. Loeks, Rye, New York
70 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 5,204
Susan C. Longo, Plano, Texas
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning....... 5,000
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,000
Lotspeich Company, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the Jim and Bonnie Mandich Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............ 5,000
John H. Lunden, Big Rapids
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................  60,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Paul and Margaret Lurie Philanthropic Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for the Lurie Teaching Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 5,000
Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Schools of Education and Social Work......................... 500,000
Curtis L. Mack, Atlanta, Georgia
253 shares of Associates First Capital Corporation common stock
for the Curtis L. Mack Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for support of
the  L aw   School............................................................  6,973
Robert B. Mackey, Grand Blanc
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 5,000
Olive Madigan, Wilmette, Illinois
400 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for support of the Law   School................................................  14,963
Magna International, Inc., Aurora, Ontario, Canada
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Russell E. Makowsky, New York, New York
100 shares of Dell Computer Corporation and
20 shares of Western Wireless Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Law  and Public Health............................... 6,161
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  70,055


209




February Meeting, 2000


Richard E. Marsh, San Marino, California
11,000 shares of Lubrizol Corporation common stock
for the Marsh Family Merit Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 315,563
Betty Jo Mayer, Rancho Palos Verdes, California
for research in the School of Public Health...................................... 10,000
Ronald J. McAlear, New Orleans, Louisiana
for the Mel Colen Scholarship................................................ 10,000
James A. McDivitt, Tucson, Arizona
for the James A. and Judith McDivitt Scholarship in the College of Engineering........ 7,000
Robert E. McFarland, Farmington Hills
for support of the Law  School................................................. 5,000
Tony L. McGee, Terre Haute, Indiana
200 shares of Ericsson common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics...................................... 13,075
Pete McNerney, Minneapolis, Minnesota
1,400 shares of Advanced Fibre Communications common stock
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health.... 54,381
Joanne T. Meagher, Ypsilanti
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................ 8,000
Michcon Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee m atching  gifts..................................................  5,588
Michigan College Book Company, Inc., Ypsilanti
for the Nichols Arboretum Natural Areas Endowment............................. 10,000
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
2,400 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Dorothy and Herman L. Miller Endowment in the Medical School and for
support in  the College of Engineering.......................................... 79,975
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics and for the Clements
L ibrary..................................................................  28,500
Ross A. Morgan, Orlando, Florida
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship in the Medical School........... 5,000
Sarah Morgan Estate
for the Carl and Sarah Morgan Honors Scholarship and the Sarah and Carl Morgan
Theatre Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 23,846
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
600 shares of Pimco Advisors common stock
for the Mortenson Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................. 22,781
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for WUOM    and for employee matching gifts...................................  101,605
MSX International, Inc., Auburn Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 30,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 32,500
Ruediger Naumann-Etienne, Oakland, California
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 5,000
Homer A. Neal, Ann Arbor
for the Homer A. and Donna J. Neal Endowment................................. 10,000
Gregor N. Neff, New York, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship in the Law School............................. 15,000
Peter J. Newell, Burr Ridge, Illinois
100 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 5,522
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  45,000
Paul L. Newman-Newman's Own, Westport, Connecticut
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies...........................................................  5,000
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Virginia S. Nicklas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, for the University
Library, and  for the M en's Glee Club..........................................  12,439
Michael J. Novoson, Durham, North Carolina
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 5,000
Donald A. Odell, Arkville, New York
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 5,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,000


210




February Meeting, 2000


Old Kent Trust of the Jandemoa Charitable Annuity Lead Trust, Grand Rapids
for the Susan and Michael J. Jandernoa Professorship in the School of Business
A dm inistration...........................................................  300,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
993 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Ronald L. and Jane Olson Fund in the Law School......................... 67,059
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 7,500
David G. Owens, Long Grove, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,000
Stuart B. Padnos, Holland
for the Barbara Padnos Research Fund in the Medical School...................... 100,000
Deryck A. Palmer, Maplewood, New Jersey
for support of the Law  School................................................. 5,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School............................................ 99,381
Donald R. or Ann V. Parfet Family Foundation, Richland
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women............ 10,000
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  20,000
Gardner I. Parsons, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
360 shares of American Home Products common stock
for the Class of 1950 Emeritus Fund in the College of Engineering................... 14,760
Randolph Paschke, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for research in the Comprehensive Cancer
Center, for the Arthur M. Andersen Accounting Scholarship, the Arthur Andersen Fund
for the Paton Accounting Center, and other support in the School of Business
A dm inistration............................................................  13,550
Pearsall Family Foundation, Oak Park, Illinois
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,000
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,000
Peterson American Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute and for
the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  6,000
Pharmacia & Upjohn, Kalamazoo
for research  in  the M edical School............................................  10,000
Arthur J. Pointer, Flint
for the Annie Mae Pointer Scholarship and Fellowship Fund at the University of
M ichigan-Flint.............................................................  7,069
Polo Fields Foundation, Ann Arbor
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................... 20,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.............................. 15,000
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for support of the Law   School................................................. 6,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 8,000
Pryor Foundation, Windsor, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. 100,000
Quality Quartz of America, Inc., Mentor, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 5,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support of the Law School and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..... 26,000
Diana Mendley Rauner, Winnetka, Illinois
for Cam p  M ichigania........................................................ 6,000
John W. Reed, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Law and Music and for the University Musical Society...... 5,000
Retirement Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................  50,547
John Rich, Beverly Hills
for the John Rich Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 200,000
F. W. Richards, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Charles Diebolt......... 8,400


211




February Meeting, 2000


John D. Richart, Ann Arbor
for the F. E. Richart, Jr., Fellowship in the College of Engineering.................. 10,000
Thomas B. Ridgley, Columbus, Ohio
400 shares of Worthington Industries common stock
for support of the Law  School................................................. 6,188
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Services for Students with Disabilities Gift Fund............................ 8,000
Roy H. Roberts Charitable Lead Unitrust
for the Richard H. Kingery Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry....... 302,147
Kenneth J. Robinson, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...... 10,000
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.............................................  5,500
Eugene Rontal, Bloomfield Hills
50 shares of Tellabs, Inc., and 20 shares of EMC Corporation common stock
for gifts pending designation.................................................. 5,354
James Rose, Ann Arbor
100 shares of America Online, Inc., common stock
for W UOM...............................................................  8,438
Michael W. Rosenberg, Warren, Ohio
200 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 22,619
Rosenstiel Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,000
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
380 shares of Associates First Capital common stock
for support of the Law   School................................................  10,177
Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Foundation, Palm City, Florida
for the William G. Dow Distinguished Professorship in the College of Engineering, in
memory  of W illiam   G. Dow.................................................  10,000
Marshall V. Rozzi, Chicago, Illinois
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health...................... 5,000
Rudolph-Libbe, Inc., Canton
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 20,000
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for student aid  in  the M edical School...........................................  7,000
Jill M. Rupple, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 5,000
Rustic Enterprises, Ann Arbor
for the Nichols Arboretum  Flowering Tree Fund.................................  10,000
Helen B. Rutledge Estate
for support in the School of Social W ork.......................................  39,000
Marion W. Ryan Trustee
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint
and  for W FU M -TV........................................................  25,500
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and in the Institute for Social
R esearch.................................................................  16,346
Richard V. Sandler, Los Angeles, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 5,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School................................ 50,000
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust
for the Ferdinand R. Schemm Endowment in the Medical School.................... 72,034
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  6,500
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R. C. Schneider Fund in the Medical School, for the Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Clements
L ibrary...................................................................  5,500
Katherine Collier Schotten, Ann Arbor
for support in  the  School of M usic.............................................  5,500
Edwin D. Scott, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Palo Alto, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School.................... 25,000
Norma L. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
for the Norma L. Shapiro Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000


212




February Meeting, 2000


Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in the College of Engineering........................................... 12,500
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering in the College of Engineering....... 37,362
Ned G. Shure, Ann Arbor
for the Nichols Arboretum Natural Areas Endowment, for the Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology, the University Musical Society, and for research in the Comprehensive
Cancer Center............................................................  10,250
Leonard G. Siegal, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning..... 5,000
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for support in the School of Social W ork.......................................  10,000
William M. Skubik, Plymouth
for the Chester Scholarship................................................... 5,500
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D. Trust
for the Nichols Arboretum Gateway Garden Fund and for the Museum of Art.......... 5,050
Susan M. Smith, Ann Arbor
for the Susan M. Smith Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Richard C. Sneed, Cleveland, Ohio
100 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,122
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................... 25,000
Judy W. Soley, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 5,000
Solutia, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning....... 5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work and for employee matching gifts............ 34,150
Laurence L. Spitters, Palo Alto, California
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 7,500
Sprenger-Lang Foundation, Washington, DC
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,000
Helen McKaig Spuhler Estate
for the Helen McKaig Spuhler Graduate Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and    the   A rts............................................................  60,000
Martha Steen, San Francisco, California
155 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the Steen Acquisitions Fund in the Museum of Art............................. 10,356
Marc H. Steglitz, New Vernon, New Jersey
42 shares of Hearst-Argyle Television, Inc., and a cash gift
for scholarships, fellowships, and other student aid at the University of Michigan........ 5,109
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.... 26,000
John F. Stone Trust
for the John F. Stone Research and Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............ 8,825
Stephen A. Stone, Onset, Massachusetts
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................. 5,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for support of the Law   School................................................  12,500
Stanley S. Stoup, San Francisco, California
300 shares of Wells Fargo Company common stock
for support of the Law   School................................................  12,253
Kevin R. Stout, Doylestown, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 5,000
Frederic H. Strickland, Canton
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,000
Frances T. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in  the School of Education..........................................  5,000
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning....... 5,000
Subaru Research & Development, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................  18,000
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
2,678 units of Amerindo Technology Growth Fund mutual fund
for the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.............................................................  287,500


213




February Meeting, 2000


Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Austin, Texas;
for the Mary C. and Thomas P. Borders Women's Basketball Scholarship in the
Department of Athletics..................................................... 10,000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowments in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Engineering.................................................... 212,650
A. Alfred Taubman Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship........................................... 30,595
Am H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
for the Am Tellem Faculty Research Support Fund in the Law School............... 30,000
Tenneco Automotive, Greenwich, Connecticut
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 7,500
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies................................................. 150,000
Donald A. Tomalia, Midland
for the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology in the Medical School................... 5,000
John A. Tompkins, Jr., Sausalito, California
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Schools of Medicine and Music...... 5,635
Toyota Motor Manufacturer's North America, Inc., Erlanger, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 20,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for gift pending  designation................................................... 5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 28,150
United Jewish Foundation of Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts..............................................  20,000
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for support in  the M edical School.............................................  29,100
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship................. 10,000
Kenneth P. Urban, New Canaan, Connecticut
798 shares of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. 104,089
Rodolfo Uy Ham, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in the Medical School and for WFUM-TV.......... 10,100
Richard E. Van House, Ann Arbor
90 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Business Administration,
and the College of Engineering, for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center;
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 5,464
Visteon Automotive System, Dearborn
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University
of M ichigan-D earborn.......................................................  8,660
Bob Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the M artin Luther King  Scholarship........................................  16,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 6,000
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
173 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 21,344
Patricia E. Wagner, Bloomfield Hills
for the Michigan Transplantation Enrichment Fund in the Medical School.............. 5,000
L.C. and Margaret Walker Foundation, North Muskegon
for  W U O M..............................................................  25,000
George E. Wantz, New York, New York
800 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the M edical School.............................................  61,669
James E. Wasco, Boxford, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support in the Schools of
Medicine and Music and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 5,500
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust
for the Roy E. Weber Research Fund in the Medical School........................ 25,000
Walter H. Weiner, New York, New York
70 shares of Republic New York Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................. 5,023


214




February Meeting, 2000


Jerry A. Weisbach, Ann Arbor
212 shares of Comcast Corporation common stock
for the Jerry A. and Elise A. Weisbach Symposium Fund in the Medical School........ 9,613
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York;
for research in the Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 8,900
David Westin, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School................................................ 10,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for employee matching gifts..................................................  5,000
Eula T. White Trust
for support in the School of Information........................................ 25,000
Max S. Wicha, Ann Arbor
311 units of FAM Value Fund mutual fund
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the Comprehensive Cancer
Center.................................................................... 9,538
Clayton E. Wilhite, Ann Arbor
96 shares of Cisco Systems Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the University
M usical Society...........................................................  10,179
Jeffrey K. Willemain, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Carleton H. Griffin-Deloitte/Touche Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration.....................................................  5,000
Brymer Williams, Ann Arbor
600 shares of Darden Restaurants, Inc., and
31 shares of Allmerica Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Music, the College of Engineering,
and for the University  Musical Society.........................................  12,469
Kathy Williams, Marina del Rey, California
for the Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 5,000
Shirley J. Williams Trust
for the Gordon Euker Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
U rban  Planning............................................................  5,000
Joan D. Willson, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
50 shares of Qualcomm, Inc., common stock
for the Robert J. Willson Professorship in the Medical School........................ 7,394
Wolf Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
William H. Woodson, Shawnee Mission, Kansas
for the William H. Woodson Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the  Law   School...........................................................  10,000
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
for research  in the School of Public Health...................................... 68,955
Audrey L. Wright, Grand Rapids
315 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Audrey L. Wright Travel Award Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 49,091
Jean Davies Wright Trust
for the Museum of Paleontology Faculty Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 5,000
Larry J. Wright, Kingwood, Texas
for the Larry and Bev Wright Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Samuel E. Wyly, Dallas, Texas
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration..................... 2,000,000
Irma M. Wyman, St. Paul, Minnesota
168 shares of Honeywell International, Inc., common stock
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women............ 10,059
Donald E. Zekany, Ann Arbor
for the Rose Mary Marin Scholarship in the School of Education.................... 10,000
W. Tom ZurSchmiede, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine and in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................. 5,000
The following non monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Karlene Bernatovech, Newton, Pennsylvania
books and periodicals relating to U.S. President Abraham Lincoln for the Clements Library
G. Frederic Bolling, Dearborn
nineteen pieces of art glass for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Florence L. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred Berkowitz Gallery


215




February Meeting, 2000


Norman Dahn Estate
property located in Salem Township for the School of Dentistry
Stephen T. Doezema, Belmont
a collection of journals for the Department of Prosthodontics
Michael D. Gartz, Ann Arbor
a Bechstein grand piano for the School of Music
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
equipment for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
International Business Machines, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
equipment for the School of Art and Design
George Kao, Winter Park, Florida
871 volumes of 42 titles and series Chinese books for the University Library
Martin Marx, Bingham Farms
a painting by Franklin Jonas for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Richard D. McLeary, Ann Arbor
a light table and slide storage and sorting system for Nichols Arboretum
Lucy Merritt, Bloomfield Hills
forty-three books related to art glass for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred Berkowitz
Gallery
John J. Petruska, Sturgis
a dental tin collection for the School of Dentistry Sindecuse Museum
Margaret C. Richardson, Devon, Pennsylvania
archive of the writing and publishing of a book by Edward W. Richardson for the Clements
Library
Alice A. Simsar, Ann Arbor
Dow Coming Corporation, Midland           Parallax, Inc., Rocklin, California
Littlefuse, Inc., Farmington Hills        Edward G. Sarkisian, Northville
Anna Panagos, Dearborn Heights
art work for the School of Art and Design and the Comprehensive Cancer Center
William Stamelos, Fort Myers, Florida
a sculpture and thirteen etchings for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Alfred Berkowitz
Gallery
David R. Zimmer, Bloomfield Village
a sailboat and trailer for Camp Michigania
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor pointed out that the Arthur F. Thurnau
Professorship recommendations were being submitted for approval.
Chancellor Mestas highlighted the reappointment of Renate McLaughlin as provost
and vice chancellor for academic affairs.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE.
Effective February 18, 2000
Csete, Marie E., M.D., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Anatomy and
Developmental Biology, Medical School
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective July 1, 2000
McLaughlin, Renate, Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, University of Michigan-Flint,
two year term
Mowbray, Carol T., Associate Dean for Research, School of Social Work, one year term


216




February Meeting, 2000


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Billi, John E., Associate Vice President for Medical Affairs, Office of the Executive Vice President for
Medical Affairs, February 1, 2000
Chamberlin, John R., from Associate Dean to Acting Dean, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, six
month term, March 1, 2000
Murtuza, Syed, Acting Chair, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of
Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering, four month term, January 1, 2000
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective March 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Establishing New Academic Administrative Positions
Assistant Dean of Students, Law School, (establishment of two assistant dean of student positions)
Chair, Department of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, February 1, 2000
Establishing Professorships
Alfred Holmes White Collegiate Professorship in Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2000
Arnold G. Coran Collegiate Professorship in Pediatric Surgery, Medical School
Bank One Corporation Assistant or Associate Professorship in Business Administration, School of
Business Administration (previously First Chicago NBD Corporation Assistant or Associate
Professorship in Business Administration
Spencer Professorship in Organizational Studies in Education and Business, School of Business
Administration and School of Education, five year renewable term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship - July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Alcock, Susan E., Associate Professor of Classical Archaeology and Classics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ball, Deborah L., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and
Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gordon, Michael D., Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of Business
Administration
Krasny, Robert, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Reynolds, H. Robert, Professor of Music (Conducting), with tenure, School of Music
Whittier-Ferguson, John, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Wineman, Alan S., Professor of Applied Mechanics and Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with
tenure, College of Engineering
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Allen-Meares, Paula, Norma Radin Collegiate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, five
year term, March 20, 2005
Friedman, Richard D., Ralph W. Aigler Professor of Law, Law School, five year term, March 1, 2000
Halloran, John W., Alfred Holmes White Collegiate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, five
year term, January 1, 2000
Other Transactions
Colenback, Timothy L., from Interim Assistant Dean to Assistant Dean for Student Services, School of
Social Work, five year term, April 1, 2000
Spahlinger, David A., from Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs to Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs,
Medical School, March 1, 2000


217




February Meeting, 2000


Watts, Charles M., Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs, Medical School, March 1, 2000
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
School of Art and Design Executive Committee
Marinaro, Louis M., retroactive January 1-April 30, 2000, vice James A. Cogswell, Jr., unable to serve
during winter term
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Dutton, Jane E., February 18, 2000, through June 30, 2001, vice Janet A. Weiss, resigned
Olson, Judith S., February 18, 2000, through June 30, 2001, vice Richard W. Andrews, resigned
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akervall, Jan A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, January 10, 2000-January 10, 2002
Anadon, Pilar S., A.B., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Anderson, Joyce C., M.A., Lecturer in Nursing, University of Michigan-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, January 1-December 31, 2000
Arabadjis, John S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2000
Attar, Mohammad Ali M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2001
Bednar, Jennifer L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Beretta-Hanash, Laura, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
January 1, 2000-December 31, 2001
Caruthers, Allison S., M.A., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1- April 30, 2000
Clarke, Steven A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January
1- April 30, 2000
Cogbum, Derrick L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information Studies, School of Information, and
Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2002
Crow, Jonathan C., M.A., Lecturer I in Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Dignas, Beate D., D.Phil., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Garikipati, Krishnakumar R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2002
Hammer, Lisa A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 12, 2000-January 11,2001
Hollander, Isaac, M.A., Lecturer II in Jewish and Islamic Social History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Jager, Colin L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2000
Kinnen, Ryan M., Lecturer I in Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Kuiper, Jesse L., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1 -April 30, 2000
Kurabayashi, Katsuo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College
of Engineering, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2002
Luntz, Jonathan E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College
of Engineering, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2002
Marrero, Jorge A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, February 7, 2000 -January 31, 2001
McKim, Lamont M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2000


218




February Meeting, 2000


Morris, Ellen G., B.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2000
Richardson, Paul C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of
Michigan- Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, January 1, 2000-December
31, 2001
Saxe, Stephen J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, February 1,
2000- January 31, 2001
Schoonhoven, Richard D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Schultheiss, Oliver C., D.Phil., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-December 31, 2002
Skerlos, Steven J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2002
Ugwuegbu, Denis C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies and Lecturer II in
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Wood, Carrie E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Betts, Norman J., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, January 1-August 31, 2000
Gerbasi, Francis R., from Assistant Professor of Anesthesia Education to Clinical Professor II of Health
Care, University of Michigan-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies, July 1, 1999 -August 31, 2000
Kincaid, Cynthia B., from Assistant Professor of Physical Therapy to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Physical Therapy, University of Michigan-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Sastry, Ann M., Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, January 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-December 31, 2000
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resource and Environment, January 1-August 31, 2000
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2000
Kammash, Terry, Professor Emeritus of Nuclear and Engineering and Radiological Science, and Stephen
S. Attwood Professor Emeritus of Nuclear and Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2000
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-December 31, 2000
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, appointed to Budget and Administration, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Miller, James M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1 -April 30, 2000
Ribbens, William B., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor
Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2000
Roloff, Dietrich W., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2000
Schmerl, Rudolph B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, appointed to Technical Communication,
College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2000
Williams, G. Brymer, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, College of Engineering,
December 1, 1999-January 31, 2000


219




February Meeting, 2000


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCES
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bardakjian, Kevork B., Associate Professor of Armenian Languages and Literatures, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Marie Manoogian Associate Professor,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Beauchamp, Gorman L., Associate Professor of Humanities, with tenure, College of Engineering,
extended sick leave, January 24-May 31, 2000
Christiansen, Richard L., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 2000
Clarkson, Brian H., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, sabbatical leave,
December 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Cloyd, Emily L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2000
Deskins, Donald R., Jr., Professor of Urban Geography and Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Dumas, Rhetaugh G., Vice Provost Emerita, Dean Emerita, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and
Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, retirement furlough (phased), January 1,
2000- December 31, 2001
Harrington, Helen L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Holz, Ronald W., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 4, 1999-March 5, 2000
Jones, Charles A., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint School of
Education and Human Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Matthews, Larry S., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough (phased),
October 8, 1999-October 7, 2002
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Rowan, Brian P., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2000
Saxonhouse, Gary R., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Squatriti, Paolo, Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and
Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1 -December 31, 2000
Szatkowski, Tammy L., Curator, Sindecuse Dental Museum, School of Dentistry, educational leave,
February 1-May 31, 2000
Terada, Rei M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Wayman, Francis W., Jr., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
Weiss, Janet A., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure, and Mary C.
Bromage Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration, and Professor of
Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, personal leave, January
1-December 31, 2000
Wu, Lung-Chiang, Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2000
Yoffee, Norman, Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure,
and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, medical
leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
Zimmerman, William IV, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
CORRECTION TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Van Leer, Bram, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2000 (Previously reported as January 1-December 31, 2000)


220




February Meeting, 2000


TERMINATIONS
Effective December 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Resigned
Bullard, Mary Anne, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Fan, Yinshui, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Froehlich, James B., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 30, 1999
Givelberg, Edward, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Greenfeld, Jonathan I., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School
Holmes, John W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
College of Engineering
Lancaster, Scott R., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School
Marshall, David L., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
February 29, 2000
Northrop, Mary J., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering
Ross, Donald A., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, Medical School
Sweeney, Christopher J., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Retired
Bush, Joan T., Lecturer in Composition, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, June 30, 2000
Goldberg, Jack L., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2000
Holbrook, Robert S., Associate Provost, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for
Academic Affairs, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 21, 2000
Na, Tsung Yen, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Engineering, April 30, 2000
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, Medical School
Rinne, Carl H., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint School of
Education and Human Services
Term Completed
Laracey, Melvin C., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Stevens-Truss, Regina, Lecturer in Pharmacy, Medical School
Retirement memoirs. Vice President Tedesco called attention to the retirement
of three faculty members.
Richard G. Lawton, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Lawton received his B.S. degree from the University of California at
Berkeley in 1956. From 1956-57 he worked in Dr. Karl Folker's research group at
Merck, Sharp, and Dohm Research Laboratories in Rahway, New Jersey, and from
1957-59 he served in the U.S. Army as a chemist at Walter Reed Army Institute of
Research. In 1959 he entered graduate school at the University of Wisconsin, where he
received his Ph.D. degree in 1962. He joined the University of Michigan as an instructor
in 1962 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1964, associate professor in 1967,
and professor in 1970. He held an Arthur F. Thurnau professorship from 1993-96.
While in graduate school Professor Lawton independently conceived, accomplished,
and published in the Journal of the American Chemical Society, the first example of a
ring-closure demonstrating non-classical ion pi-participation to give the bicyclic
norbomyl system. This seminal work was concurrently being pursued by Professor Paul
D. Bartlett at Harvard University.
Professor Lawton's research interests are highly varied. Early in his career at
Michigan, he developed strategies for the synthesis of strained aromatic compounds. He
synthesized the first bowl-shaped compound called corannulene that has the same carbon


221




February Meeting, 2000


skeleton as a portion of the framework as buckminsterfullerene or Buckyball. A
continuing interest of his research is the design, synthesis, and chemistry of reagents and
structures which serve as tools for the identification of interactions between reactive
functional groups on peptide and protein chains. This theme has had universal applications
for organic, bioorganic, and molecular biochemistry.
In the area of teaching, Professor Lawton has been an innovator and major
developer of a new curriculum for undergraduate chemistry students. He received the
University's Amoco Teaching Award in 1989 and the LS&A Excellence in Teaching
Award in 1991 and 1992, in addition to being named a Thurnau professor in 1993.
The Regents now salute this dedicated faculty member by naming Richard G.
Lawton professor emeritus of chemistry.
Sujit K. Pandit, M.D., Ph.D., professor of anesthesiology, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Born in a small village in India, Dr. Pandit moved to Calcutta as a twelve-year-old
refugee in 1947. He received his M.B.B.S. degree from the University of Calcutta in
1959 and his M.S. degree from the University of Punjab in 1966. From 1960-67 he
pursued postgraduate training in anesthesiology in Delhi and Chandigarh, and he was a
lecturer at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) at
Chandigarh from 1964-67. In 1968 he went to Queen's University in Belfast, Ireland,
where he received his Ph.D. degree in anesthetics in 1971. He then returned to PGI,
serving as an associate professor of anesthesiology from 1971-73. From 1974-76 he was
an assistant professor at the University of Colorado Medical Center. He came to the
University of Michigan as an associate professor of anesthesiology in 1976 and was
promoted to professor in 1978.
Dr. Pandit has published more than 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals. As a
result of his contributions to the field of ambulatory anesthesia, the Department of
Anesthesiology is well-known at the national and international levels. The National
Society of Ambulatory Anesthesia (SAMBA) honored him by electing him president for
1997-98. He has served as the editor of Ambulatory Anesthesia, the SAMBA newsletter,
for more than 5 years. Dr. Pandit has also been known as a humble teacher, always in
quest of new knowledge. In recognition of his teaching contributions, he received the
Robert B. Sweet, M.D., Teacher of the Year Award in 1986.
Dr. Pandit has been an esteemed colleague who has encouraged and helped many
young faculty members to develop their careers as academic anesthesiologists. He has
been a role model in many ways, but the role in which he will be missed most is that of a
dedicated and compassionate physician who always taught and practiced quality patient
care. In keeping with this, following his retirement he plans to travel to India and
developing countries to promote quality care for patients as an honorary consultant.
The Regents salute this distinguished health care educator for his dedicated service
by naming Sujit K. Pandit professor emeritus of anesthesiology.
Chung-Tuo Shih, Ph.D., associate professor of mathematics in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Shih received his B.A. degree from National Taiwan University in 1956
and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Washington in 1965. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of mathematics in 1966 and was
promoted to associate professor with tenure in 1971. He has held visiting positions at
Cornell University, the University of California at San Diego, and National Taiwan
University.


222




February Meeting, 2000


During most of his career, Professor Shih has worked in the area of probabilistic
potential theory, otherwise known as the general theory of Markov Processes. This is an
outgrowth of the surprising discovery that two quite distinct branches of physics,
Brownian motion and Newtonian potential, have an intimate mathematical connection.
Some of Professor Shih's early publications have been described as among the deepest in
the field and as marking a turning point in its development. For much of his time at
Michigan, he has been the mainstay of the program in probability.
In his teaching, Professor Shih concentrated his efforts on the courses in probability
at both the undergraduate and graduate levels and was responsible for several changes
and developments in these courses.  He also frequently taught first-year courses,
particularly Math 116, and for many years was also the coordinator of this course. He
served often on the Master's Committee and as an advisor to both undergraduate and
Master's Degree students. He supervised one Ph.D. student and served on the Ph.D.
committees of many others, both in mathematics and in statistics.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Chung-Tuo Shih associate
professor emeritus of mathematics.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted requests for approval of December 1999 final
degree lists and changes to previously approved degree lists. The documents are on file
in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the University.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
SZ Investments, L.L.C.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that an additional investment of $5.0
million had been made to a previously approved commitment to SZ Investments, L.L.C.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5.0 million to Chengwei Ventures I, L.P.
Simpson Circle Parking Structure Elevator Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Simpson Circle Parking Structure Elevator Replacement
Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
School of Social Work Conference Center
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the budget for the School of Social Work Conference Center and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
School of Public Health Buildings Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the School of Public Health renovation project and authorized
commissioning the firm of Centerbrook Architects and Planners working in association
with HarleyEllis for its design.


223




February Meeting, 2000


Underground Tunnel and Utility Replacement and Relocations
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved replacement and relocation of the portion of the underground
tunnel and utilities between the Central Power Plant and the School of Dentistry, as
described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Fieldhouse Renovation
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn Fieldhouse Renovation
Project as described and authorized appointing SSOE, Inc., as the Architect/Engineer.
Medical Science II and Buhl Center for Human Genetics Buildings Renovation
Project Phase II
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved completing Phase II of the Medical Science II and Buhl Center
for Human Genetics Buildings Renovation Project and selection of Jickling, Lyman,
Powell Associates, Inc., as the architect.
103 Zina Pitcher Place
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of the property at 103 Zina Pitcher Place, according to
the terms described in the Regents Communication.
Center for Display Technology and Manufacturing (DTM) Building and
Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the budget for the Center for Display Technology and
Manufacturing (DTM) Building and renovation project and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the
approved project budget.
Authorization for Payment for Services of Luis Villanueva
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for the purchase of artwork from Luis Villanueva.
Because Mr. Villanueva is also an adjunct lecturer at the University of Michigan-Flint,
this action falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Luis Villanueva, an adjunct lecturer at the University of Michigan-Flint.
2.  The service provided is an acrylic painting which will be permanently
displayed in the Frances Wilson Thompson Library for a total of $2,000.
Payment to Mr. Villanueva will be made through gifts from donors to the
Annual Fund.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Luis Villanueva is a University
of Michigan-Flint employee who is receiving payment for preparing the
painting.


224




February Meeting, 2000


Authorization for Payment for Services of Architecture Buro
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for design services provided by Architecture Buro.
Because the sole proprietor of Architecture Buro, Christian Unverzagt, is also a
University of Michigan lecturer, this action falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
its A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and
Architecture Buro.
2.   The service provided is design work for a lecture series and exhibitions that
took place in the fall of 1999, at a total cost of $800.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Christian Unverzagt, a University
of Michigan employee, is the sole proprietor of Architecture Buro.
Authorization for Payment for Services of Techno Magic
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for catalog production services performed by Techno
Magic. Because the sole proprietor of Techno Magic, Karen Ester Lamb, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this action falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
its Residential College and Techno Magic.
2.   The service provided is production of a catalog for an exhibition and
symposium that took place in November 1999, at a total cost of $1,540.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Karen Ester Lamb, sole owner
of Techno Magic, is a University of Michigan employee.
Purchasing Contract with DJB Professional Writing and Editing, Inc. (DJB)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract between the School of Business
Administration and DJB Professional Writing and Editing. Because the sole proprietor
of DJB, Diana Blackford, is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
its School of Business Administration and DJB.
2.   The service to be provided is writing and editing services, as needed, up to a
maximum of $16,000, for the calendar year January 1, 2000, through
December 31, 2000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Diana Blackford, a University
of Michigan employee, is the sole proprietor of DJB.


225




February Meeting, 2000


Amendment to License Agreement with Mechanical Simulation Corporation (MSC)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to a license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Mechanical Simulation Corporation (MSC). Because two University of
Michigan employees, Michael Sayers and Thomas Gillespie, also hold an equity interest
in MSC, this amendment falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mechanical
Simulation Corporation.
2.   Terms of the agreement are:
The license to MSC will be paid up with no further royalties required.
The licensee will continue to grant to UM a royalty free right to use and create
derivative works it makes of the programs for UM's internal education and
research purposes.
The University will continue to retain ownership of the program and may
continue to further develop it and use it as a research tool.
3.   Dr. Sayers' and Dr. Gillespie's pecuniary interest arises from their ownership
interest in MSC.  The inventor, Dr. Sayers, has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from the
company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and ElectroDynamic
Applications, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc. (EDA). Because two University of Michigan
employees, Brian E. Gilchrist and Alec D. Gallimore, also hold ownership interests in
EDA, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and ElectroDynamic
Applications, Inc. (EDA).
2.   Terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
project will provide support for a graduate student in the amount of $7,750.
The total award is $24,763 and the period of performance will be five months.
3.   Dr. Gilchrist's and Dr. Gallimore's pecuniary interest arises from their status
as University of Michigan employees who also have ownership interests in
EDA. Dr. Gilchrist will direct the University of Michigan work in his capacity
as a University of Michigan employee.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and M-Vision, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
M-Vision, Inc., to enter into a subcontract in connection with a Small Business
Innovation Research (SBIR) grant received by M-Vision. Because the owner and sole
officer of M-Vision, Inc., Shridar Lakshmanan, is also a faculty member at the


226




February Meeting, 2000


University of Michigan-Dearborn, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and M-Vision, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
This project will provide support for the graduate student research assistant in
the amount of $22,162. The total award is $33,000 and the period of
performance will be six months.
3.   Dr. Lakshmanan's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of M-Vision
and his status as a University of Michigan employee who also will be
participating in this project on behalf of M-Vision.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Reent tBrandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. ("Company") to perform research under a grant
received by the Company under the Small Business Innovative Research Program Phase II.
Because Robert Bartlett, M.D. is both part-owner of the Company and a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc. ("Company").
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance for the project is two years at a total cost of $226,180 including
indirect cost at applicable federal rates.
3.   Dr. Bartlett's pecuniary interest arises from his status as a University of
Michigan employee and part-owner of the Company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mott Children's
Health Center
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Mott Children's Health Center involving a subcontract supporting collaborative
activities with Dr. Daniel Briskie at Mott Children's Health Center in conjunction with
a grant awarded to the University of Michigan. Because Dr. Briskie is also an adjunct
faculty member at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mott Children's
Health Center.
2.   Under the project a total subcontract of approximately $42,638 is anticipated
to cover the period September 30, 1999, through September 29, 2001. The
University's standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Briskie's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an employee of Mott
Children's Health Center and an adjunct faculty member at the University of
227




February Meeting, 2000


Michigan. The latter appointment is without compensation and is unrelated to
his involvement with this research project.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc. ("Company"), involving a subcontract with the University of Michigan
to perform research under a grant received by the Company from the National Institutes
of Health. Because Alvin Schmaier, M.D., is both an owner of the Company and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
2.   Terms of the agreement conform      to University policy.   The period of
performance for the project is two years at a total cost of $158,004 including
indirect cost at applicable federal rates.
3.   Dr. Schmaier's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an owner of the
Company and a University of Michigan employee.
Regents' Bylaws 5.01, 5.23, and 5.24
Regent Newman moved approval of revisions to Regents' Bylaws 5.01
("Definitions") and 5.23 ("Clinical Instructional Staff') and the addition of a new
Regents' Bylaw 5.24 ("Primary Research Scientists"). Regent Maynard seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The text of the revised and new bylaws follow:
Bylaw Sec. 5.01. Definitions
As used in these bylaws:
1. The term faculty shall include members of the teaching and research staff together with
the executive officers, the directors of various teaching, research, and library units,
research associates, curators, and persons with similar duties.
2. The term professorial staff shall include professors, associate professors, and assistant
professors.
3.  The term governing faculty when used in connection with a school or college, shall
include those members of the school or college who are professors, associate
professors, and assistant professors. The governing faculty shall include instructors and
lecturers who hold appointments of one-half time or more; provided, however, that such
instructors and lecturers may vote at faculty meetings only if they have held
appointments for one or more years and are authorized to vote by a majority of the
professorial staff of the appropriate school or college. The governing faculty may
include clinical II professors, clinical II associate professors, clinical II assistant
professors, research scientists, associate research scientists, assistant research
scientists, research investigators, senior research scientists, and senior associate
research scientists when authorized by, and in accordance with, the policies and bylaws
of the appropriate school or college.
4. The term teaching staff shall include professors, associate professors, assistant
professors, instructors, lecturers, and teachingfellows.
5.  The terms teaching fellow, teaching associate, teaching assistant, student assistant
research assistant, technical assistant, laboratory assistant, and assistant shall be used
to designate junior appointees who participate in the processes of teaching and
228




February Meeting, 2000


research but do not possess faculty rank. Students in these classifications shall have
student status.
6. The term university year, as used in connection with appointments of members of the
faculty and other personnel, contains any two terms in the calendar, as definedfor the
year in question. Faculty members are expected to participate in orientation,
registration, and commencement.
Bylaw 5.23: Clinical Instructional Staff
1.  Clinical I Instructional Staff  Any  academic   unit may   appoint professional
practitioners in the community or within the University at appointment fractions below
50 percent as clinical I professors, clinical I associate professors, clinical I assistant
professors, clinical I instructors, or clinical I lecturers to support the instructional
program.
Appointments as clinical I instructional staff are on an annual or shorter basis and are
without tenure. Appointment and/or promotion criteria shall be consistent with those for
regular instructional staff to the extent applicable.
Clinical I appointments and reappointments are recommended by the appropriate
instructional unit and school, college, or division and are approved by the chancellor
(Flint or Dearborn) andpresident.
2.  Clinical II Instructional Staff An academic unit may be authorized to appoint clinical
II instructional staff to support its instructional program only if a policy authorizing
such appointments has been adopted by the school, college, or division in accordance
with the bylaws of that unit and has been approved by the appropriate provost,
chancellor (Flint or Dearborn), president, and Board of Regents.
Clinical II appointments are at appointment fractions of 50 percent or greater and are
without tenure. The following titles may be used for clinical II appointments: clinical II
professor, clinical II associate professor, clinical II assistant professor, or clinical II
instructor.
Appointments to the clinical II track are for a fixed term, cannot exceed seven years in
duration, and may be renewed Appointment and promotion criteria shall be consistent
with those for the regular instructional staff to the extent applicable. Further definition
of the rights and responsibilities of clinical II faculty, not inconsistent with the Bylaws of
the Board of Regents, may be addressed by the bylaws of the academic units.
Clinical II appointments, reappointments, and promotions are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, or division and are approved by the
appropriate provost, chancellor (Flint or Dearborn), and president.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall maintain a list of those schools,
colleges, and divisions that are authorized to make appointments to the clinical II
instructional staff
Regents' Bylaw 5.24: Primary Research Scientists
1. Research Scientists. An academic or research unit may appoint research scientists to
support the research activities of the University if a policy to authorize such
appointments has been adopted by the school, college, division, or research unit in
accordance with the bylaws of that unit and has been approved by the vice president for
research.
Research scientist appointments are not appointments to the tenured or tenure-track
instructional faculty. The following titles may be used for research scientist
appointments: research scientist, associate research scientist, assistant research
scientist, and research investigator. Further definition of the rights and responsibilities
of research scientists, not inconsistent with the Bylaws of the Board of Regents, may be
addressed by the bylaws of the academic or research units.
Primary research scientist appointments and promotions are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, division, or research unit and are
approved by the vice president for research and the president.


229




February Meeting, 2000


The vice president and secretary of the university shall maintain a list of those schools,
colleges, divisions, and research units that are authorized to make research scientist
appointments.
2. Senior Research Scientists. An academic or research unit may appoint senior research
scientists to support the research activities of the University if a policy to authorize such
appointments has been adopted by the school, college, division, or research unit in
accordance with the bylaws of that unit and has been approved by the vice president for
research and the provost and executive vice presidentfor academic affairs.
Senior research scientist appointments are not appointments to the tenured or
tenure-track instructional faculty. The following titles may be used for senior research
scientist appointments: senior research scientist or senior associate research scientist.
Further definition of the rights and responsibilities of senior research scientists, not
inconsistent with the Bylaws of the Board of Regents, may be addressed by the bylaws of
the academic or research units.
Senior research scientist appointments and promotions are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, division, or research unit and are
approved by the vice president for research, the provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs, and the president.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall maintain a list of those schools,
colleges, divisions, and research units that are authorized to make senior research
scientist appointments.
(Note: The research scientist tracks have been established on the Ann Arbor campus
only.)
New Degree Program for the School of Music ("Bachelor of Science in Sound
Engineering")
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program to be offered in the School of Music:
"Bachelor of Science in Sound Engineering."
New Degree Program for the University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters ("Master of Science in Applied and Computational Mathematics")
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Science in Applied and
Computational Mathematics," to be offered by the University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters.
New   Degree Program      for University    of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences ("Master of Science in Biology")
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Science in Biology," to be
offered by the University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences.
Change in Name of Department of Theatre in University of Michigan-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the University of Michigan-Flint
Department of Theatre to the Department of Theatre and Dance.
Regent White left the meeting at this point. A 45-minute recess followed, from
3:15-4:00 p.m.


230




February Meeting, 2000


The meeting reconvened at 4:00 p.m. President Bollinger observed that there have
been a number of controversies on campus over the past several weeks, one of which
concerns students who are protesting in the tower of the Michigan Union and another
having to do with sweatshops and licensing practices at the University. He noted that
an advisory committee, chaired by Professor John Chamberlin and composed of
students and others throughout the University, had been meeting to consider the latter
issue for over a year. He noted that those discussions are ongoing, and the hope is that
there will be a prompt and reasonable resolution.
President Bollinger then read the following statement:
Statement Regarding the Tower of the Michigan Union
For the past ten days, we have been engaged in discussions with students
including the students occupying the tower of the Michigan Union. We do not
believe that occupation is the way to resolve issues within the University. In
this instance, we felt that it was in the best interests of our educational process
for the University to pursue that discussion to a reasonable resolution.
Any conversation must have starting points.  For a university, a
fundamental principle is that, with rare exceptions, students, faculty, and staff
must not be treated differently because of their beliefs or the expressions of
those beliefs. That principle has direct application to this controversy. Some
have argued that one of the societies using the Union tower space,
Michigamua, should be stripped of its University affiliation and lose its
exclusive use of that space because it has a history ofpractices that demean and
degrade Native American culture and spirituality. Under our principles it is
clear that student organizations must not be recognized or de-recognized or
suffer any other penalty because the ideas they espouse or beliefs they adhere to
are offensive, or even dangerous, to our community. I have spoken to leaders of
the groups occupying the tower, other students, andfaculty and they, too, value
this principle.
Neither viewpoints nor legacy necessarily entitle any group within the
campus to privileged space. We will address, in a neutral way, the process of
space allocation among student organizations within the University.
It must be said, again and again, that responsible membership in our
University community implies caring about the perceived impact of one's
actions on others.  Of particular importance are perceptions, however
unintended, of cultural offense and those behaviors that cause others in the
community to be excluded and under-appreciated. Whether conscious or not,
practices that negatively stereotype groups in our society cause unjust pain and
humiliation.  I believe such practices are not acceptable behaviors in a
university that values and fosters diversity. We must never take lightly the
effects of such perceptions and behaviors.
Current students of Michigamua acknowledge that its history has included
practices demeaning of Native American culture. None of us, however, can
count ourselves free of embarrassment and even shame for what we have once
believed or practiced, not even the University of Michigan.


231




February Meeting, 2000


Our students are continually reminding us of the challenge embedded in
Pascal's enduring words, inscribed on the walls of our University, "Justice and
power must be brought together so that whatever is just may be powerful and
whatever is powerful may be just."
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Peter Romer-Friedman, member of Students
Organized for Labor Equality (SOLE), regarding the Workers Rights Consortium; from
Joe Reilly, co-chair of Native American Student Association, Aqueelah Cowan, student,
Sabrina Charles, JuJuan Buford, and Neftara Clark, members of the Black Student
Union, Monique Gifford, student and member of Black Folx Productions, Nicholas
Delgado, student and member of Michigamua, and Audrey Jackson, alumna, regarding
issues surrounding the occupation of the Michigan Union Tower.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:55 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for March 20, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


232




MARCH MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Monday, March 20, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President Ulaby, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent Taylor was absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Vice President
Wilbanks.
Michigan Road Scholars
Vice President Wilbanks noted that the Road Scholars Program was inaugurated in
May 1999. Under this program, 30 faculty members traveled to various communities
around the state for a period of 5 days to get acquainted with areas where many students
come from, but with which they were unfamiliar. She noted that Provost Cantor had
agreed to fund this program on a pilot basis for a 2 year period, in conjunction with the
offices of state outreach and government relations. Vice President Wilbanks observed
that all of the objectives of the program had been met during the inaugural trip, and she
was confident that the coming trip in May 2000 would be equally successful. She then
introduced Dean Earl Lewis.
Dean Lewis reported that the goals of the program are to:
* Develop among faculty an awareness of the state's distinctive geography,
economy, culture, government and politics, history, educational systems,
health and social issues;
* Learn about the communities that a majority of students call home;
* Encourage service to the public and research to address state problems;
* Show how the University of Michigan is connected to the entire state;
* Introduce faculty to areas of the state some of them might otherwise never see;
* Promote interaction among faculty across the disciplines.
Dean Lewis noted that as chair of the tour's advisory committee, he had responded
to Provost Cantor's charge of building on the University's history of connecting with
the state and its communities, and enhancing the University's academic mission by
creating new opportunities and possibilities for collaboration among faculty and
between faculty and Michigan communities. This goal was met and would become
apparent in the videotape of the 1999 trip. Dean Lewis observed that a unique feature
of the Road Scholars program was that faculty members departed from their roles as
teachers and assumed roles as students, listening to and learning from state residents.
A videotape describing the 1999 Road Scholars Tour was then shown. Following
presentation of the videotape, some of the faculty who had participated in the tour were
introduced and commented on the trip. Dean Lewis announced that as a result of this


233




March Meeting, 2000


trip, the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies has provided seed funding for
five collaborative projects involving teams of faculty and communities around the state.
President Bollinger commented that this is a terrific program and thanked the
faculty for their participation.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger commented on a number of recent awards and accolades
received by faculty and called attention to several upcoming campus events.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted for approval the
minutes of the February 2000 meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established for February 2000.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Mr. Bram Elias, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, noted that his tenure as MSA president would be ending this month,
and reviewed the progress that had been made in improving communications between
MSA and the Regents under his administration. (A complete report is included in the
agenda materials.) Whereas previously, MSA issued a biannual report to the Regents
and made all other presentations during public comments, under the current system,
MSA issues a written monthly report in the Regents agenda and reports regularly to the
board as part of the consent agenda. He reviewed the topics that had been covered each
month since he took office in April 1999 and then reflected on how communications,
input, and information gathering might have been improved.
Mr. Elias commented that the notion of a student Regent was originally brought
forth because it was important to MSA that students have an opportunity to comment on
issues that affect them that might be coming up for a vote by the Regents. However,
conversations with several executive officers convinced them that this is already
possible under the current system.
To help institutionalize the process for MSA/Board of Regents interaction, Mr.
Elias presented some general principles for maximizing the effectiveness of student
input to the Board of Regents that he planned to pass on to the person who succeeds
him as president. These include providing frequent written reports to the Regents
regarding student issues via e-mail; maintaining close contact with the administration so
that students become aware of upcoming issues with as much advance notice as
possible; and improving communications with the Regents outside of Regents'
meetings so that Regents understand the context of an issue before it is presented at a
meeting.
Regarding the notion of whether there should be a student Regent, Mr. Elias noted
that students within MSA understand the arguments against it, although they and many
other students do not agree and still believe having a student Regent would be
preferred. He explained that it is difficult to make the student body understand the level


234




March Meeting, 2000


of interaction between the administration and Regents that has been achieved to date
under the current system, and he pointed out that many other institutions do have
student representatives on their board.
University of Michigan Health System Report. Executive Vice President
Omenn distributed copies of the University Record that highlighted articles about the
Health System that had recently been published in the Journal of the American Medical
Association. He also noted that the website WebMD had recently featured a live
surgery performed at the University of Michigan Hospital.
In response to a comment about a recent newspaper article highlighting the long
wait for routine mammograms at the University of Michigan Health System, Executive
Vice President Omenn said that the high demand for mammograms and other factors
related to the current managed care environment have led to this situation. He noted
that a new mammography facility has been approved for the East Ann Arbor Health
Center, and that officials are also working very hard on a number of fronts to alleviate
the situation.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Harper reported that the students who
had been occupying the Michigan Union Tower had ended their occupation on Monday,
March 13, and that the University is continuing to work on many of the broader issues
that were raised during the protest. She also noted that staff continues to address the
issues raised by Mr. Elias during the MSA report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Interim Chancellor Klein stated that things
were going well on the Dearborn campus.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas observed that his inauguration
would be celebrated on April 5.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report on Voluntary
Support for February 2000.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Medicine, Nursing and Public
Health, and in the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for employee matching gifts.................................................  $ 28,487
ALCOA, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 40,000
Cheri L. Alexander, Zurich, Switzerland
for the Museum of Anthropology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 22,000
Phyllis R. Allen, Ann Arbor
125 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Gail Allen Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women............... 10,191
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the School of Public Health.......................................  59,546
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 91,134
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health........................... 75,707
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 21,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in the College
of  Pharm acy...............................................................  27,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  15,000
American Spaniel Club, Inc., Newton Square, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 5,000
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 15,000
235




March Meeting, 2000


Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Learning Initiative Fund in the School of Information.............. 479,000
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the Civil Engineering Alumni
Friends Association Fellowship and other support in the College of Engineering.......... 8,000
Automobile Club of Michigan Auto Club Insurance Association, Dearborn
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration........ 7,500
Thomas H. Baker, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Frank H. Baker Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........... 25,000
Bank of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............................................. 15,000
A. P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
200 shares of Foremost Corporation of America common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship and the Paton Accounting Center in the School
of Business Administration.................................................... 5,700
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship.............................. 55,500
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack L. and Barbara A. Berman Merit Scholarship and other support in
the Medical School.......................................................... 10,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
225 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for research in the Medical School, and for the Museum of Art....................... 20,112
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
225 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music,
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the University Musical Society and Camp
M ichigania................................................................  11,946
Nancy F. Brzezinski, Cedar
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of James Brzezinski......... 8,000
John T. Buck, Farmington
750 units of Putnam OTC & Emerging Growth mutual fund
for the Golf Hole Endowment in the Department of Athletics......................... 27,758
Richard R. Bums, Duluth, Minnesota
185 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support of the Law School........ 19,471
Butzel Long, A Professional Corporation, Detroit
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, for the Humanities
Institute and the Exhibit Museum in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and  for the University  M usical Society...........................................  5,600
William C. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
for support of the Law School and for the University Musical Society................... 6,000
CCO Communications, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, and for WUOM................................. 9,494
Kay Dwyer Chamberlain, Mount Pleasant
886 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School and for undergraduate student aid in the School
of  N ursing.................................................................  50,474
Chevron Products Company, San Ramon, California
for naval architecture and marine engineering scholarships in the College of Engineering.... 5,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc, San Ramon, California
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,900
Dennis E. Chinonis, Grand Blanc
125 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 15,730
C. Brian Christianson Trust
for support in the Schools of Law  and Music....................................... 5,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  10,000
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.................... 7,500
Colgate-Palmolive, New York, New York
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry and for employee matching gifts.... 5,500


236




March Meeting, 2000


Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................... 46,500
Paul Connell, Milford, Ohio
8,000 shares of Kellogg Company and 4,000 shares of ALCOA, Inc., common stock
for the Priscillia H. Connell Award Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts.............................................................. 506,750
Phelps M. Connell, Ann Arbor
92 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Connell Endowment in the School of Natural Resources and Environment......... 5,069
Clara H. Cooper Estate
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Josephine M. Creek Trustee
for the Daniel C. Maier Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Davidson Kempner Advisers, Inc., Philanthropic Fund
of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Sally Michelson Davidson Professorship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts.............................................................. 350,000
Virginia L. Dawson Estate
178 shares of American International Group common stock
for support in the Medical School..............................................  18,707
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 73,029
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering...... 83,000
Detroit Diesel Corporation, Dearborn
for research  in the College of Engineering....................................... 15,000
Dickinson, Wright PLLC Counsellors at Law, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law School................... 10,000
Norman S. Don, Kenilworth, Illinois
250 shares of 3COM Corporation common stock
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  12,719
Katherine L. Ehrlich Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 200,000
Ferndale Laboratories, Inc., Ferndale
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 5,000
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for other support at the University of Michigan................................  19,150
Bradley S. Flanigan, Arlington, Virginia
for the Larry K. Flanigan Scholarship in Computer Science, College of Engineering........ 5,000
Kevan K. Flanigan, Northville
for the Larry K. Flanigan Scholarship in Computer Science, College of Engineering........ 5,000
Melanie L. Flanigan, Belmont, California
for the Larry K. Flanigan Scholarship in Computer Science, College of Engineering........ 5,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 208,487
Nathan M. Forbes, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the School of Social W ork.......................................  100,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for the Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School, for research in the School
of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for the University Musical
Society..................................................................  3 10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 98,503
Ruth T. Freeman Trust
for the Ruth Tuttle Freeman Endowments in the Medical School, for the Tuttle
Family Endowed Fund in the Law School, and for the Bentley Historical Library........ 310,000
Freightliner Corporation, Portland, Oregon
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute....... 18,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 5,000
John K. Goodrich, New York, New York
for the  University  Library...................................................... 7,250


237




March Meeting, 2000


Hubert W. Gouldthorpe, Naples, Florida
340 shares of General Electric common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 50,001
Robert C. Graham, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Graham Endowment Fund in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering....... 10,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment Fund in Manufacturing and other support in the College
of Engineering............................................................  105,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health....................................... 49,983
Greenwall Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 37,260
Mohinder S. Grewal, Anaheim, California
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 6,000
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Grove Scholarship and the Women's Swimming and Diving Fund in the
Department of Athletics...................................................... 25,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Guidant Foundation MBA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.... 50,000
Ethelda Hagenah Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 85,376
Michael R. Hallman, Redmond, Washington
10,000 shares of Network Appliance, Inc., common stock
for the Michael and Mary Hallman Endowed Faculty Fund in the School
of Business Adm inistration.................................................  1,763,125
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,000
Myrl H. Hucker, Tucson, Arizona
for the Charles and Myrl Hucker Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 7,000
Gertrude V. Huebner Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for rear view mirror research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 35,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research and other support in the College of Engineering......................... 67,250
JDW, II Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 50,000
Ronald A. Johnson, Summit, New Jersey
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 50,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School
of Business Administration, and for employee matching gifts......................... 21,822
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and in the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender and for employee matching gifts........................................  154,759
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 18,750
Stella Kaufman Trust
for support of the Law School, in memory of Jack Lande............................ 10,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Information and for employee matching gifts............. 959,948
Barbara M. Kitzner Living Trust
for the Rouge River Bird Observatory Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 5,000
KL Industries, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Vivian E. Klinger Estate
for the Vivian and Joseph W. McDougal Student Loan Fund in the Medical School...... 100,000
Kraft General Foods, Inc., Glenview, Illinois
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop in the School of Art and Design....... 25,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 31,175
Marshall H. Levy Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................... 35,000
L. G. Securities, Kyunggi-Province, South Korea
for research in the School of Business Administration............................... 30,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee m atching  gifts................................................... 34,301
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the Medical School.......... 25,000


238




March Meeting, 2000


Litton Industries Foundation, Woodland Hills, California
for employee matching gifts................................................... 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Turner Geriatrics Center............... 500,000
Carole Simpson Marshall, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship........................................... 5,000
MascoTech, Inc., Fraser
for employee matching gifts................................................... 10,425
Phil Matthews, Greenwich, Connecticut
6,000 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 345,188
MBNA America Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.......................................... 16,561
J. P. McCarthy Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 45,000
Martin T. McCue, Rochester, New York
for support of the Law School................................................. 5,000
Alexander C. McKeen, West Bloomfield
160 shares of Hughes Electronics Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1950 Emeritus Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 17,820
Thomas B. McMullen Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 15,000
W. James McNerney, Jr., Family Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health....... 52,000
Thomas E. McPhee, Northville
for the McGinn and Zalupski Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for  W U O M...............................................................  25,250
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
for  W U O M.................................................................  5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and for human
factors research in the Transportation Research Institute............................. 21,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 20,000
Morgan Stanley & Company, Inc., Brooklyn, New York
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts...... 22,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Public Health......................................  129,622
Nanocor, Inc., Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 15,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 8,750
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry.......... 44,600
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for support in the College of Pharmacy..........................................  10,000
Oral Health America, Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  5,000
Garo A. Partoyan, Sarasota, Florida
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program and other support in the School
of Business A dm inistration..................................................... 7,500
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 25,000
Constance Pohs, Castle Rock, Colorado
for the Constance F. and Arnold C. Pohs Endowed Professorship in
Telecommunications, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 1,500,000
Laurence J. Pons, Brighton
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Gallery................................ 5,000
Richard E. Posey, Richmond, Virginia
75 shares of Applied Materials, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  10,010
Poweron Technologies, Inc., Tempe, Arizona
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 24,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000


239




March Meeting, 2000


Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Edward and Marjorie S. Reid Trust
for the Roby M. Burley Scholarship............................................. 5,000
Research to Prevent Blindness, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................. 100,000
Rizik and Rizik P.C., Flint
for the Michael B. and Matilda B. Rizik Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration..............................................................  5,000
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts................. 204,800
Anna Lou Johnston Roth Estate
for the Anna Lou Johnston Roth Scholarship in the School of Education............... 54,392
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School........... 12,500
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and for support at the University of Michigan-Flint..... 6,250
G. D. Searle Charitable Trust
for the Center for Ecosystem Management Fund in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment........................................................... 125,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............ 20,000
Mabel E. Sherk Estate
for the Mabel E. Sherk Research Fund in the Medical School......................... 50,000
SmithKline Beecham Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  11,487
Stamps Family Charitable Foundation, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
for the Distinguished Visiting Artists Fund in the School of Art and Design............. 25,000
John D. Stark Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 27,604
Steadman-Hawkins Sports Medicine Foundation, Vail, Colorado
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 7,500
Luther S. Stewart Estate
for support of the Law   School.................................................  23,434
T/J Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Catalysis Investigation Research and Education Fund in the College of Engineering..... 15,000
Lydia Terrill Trust
for the Lydia Terrill Trauma Bum Fund in the Medical School....................... 200,000
Textron Charitable Trust
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,230
Jack W. Thompson, Naples, Florida
1,826 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Library Acquisition Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 202,857
TopSpins, Inc., Plymouth
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  10,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,000
Trilogy Software, Austin, Texas
for the Global Business Partnership Program in the School of Business Administration....... 250,000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., Englewood, Cliffs, New Jersey
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts...... 20,750
Unisys Corporation, Bismarck, North Dakota
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship........................ 6,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship............................................ 12,000
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Viking Corporation, Hastings
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
Vlasic Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
7,500 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock
for the Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering....... 256,997
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for the University Musical Society.............. 65,000


240




March Meeting, 2000


Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................... 16,947
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems and the Transition
for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment........................................................... 175,000
Michael G. Wellman, Ann Arbor
3,000 shares of Ariba, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering....................................... 579,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Anthropology Department, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 30,300
Charles R. Wentzel, Beecher, Illinois
4,000 shares of Gentex Corporation common stock
for the Wentzel Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
student aid at the University of Michigan....................................... 123,250
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank O. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration.............................................................  15,000
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas
155 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the Alumni Scholarship and other support in the Law School...................... 10,002
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for scholarships in the School of Information.....................................  10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 452,183
WPW, III Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration...................................................... 20,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering.................. 5,000
Clarence H. Young Estate
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  5,000
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Medical School............... 70,000
The following non monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
printed materials and a photo portrait for the Clements Library
Jo-Ad Industries, Inc., Madison Heights
equipment for the Solar Car Team
Herbert W. Johe, Ann Arbor
various art and architecture books for the University Library
Judith M. Lubman, Berkeley, California
fourteen books and other printed materials for the Clements Library
James W. Pierson, Grand Rapids
six Moeck wooden recorders for the School of Music
S-3 Engineering Inc., Ann Arbor
engineering services for the Canham Natatorium
Marilyn Shatz, Ann Arbor
two hundred eight volumes of books and journals for the Department of Psychology
James F. Smith, Tucson, Arizona
wrestling books and video tapes for the Department of Athletics
Luis Villanueva, Flint
a painting for the University of Michigan-Flint Marilyn E. Wright Writing Center
Barry S. Wildstein, Oxford, Maryland
a collection of 130 books of Americana and American literature for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
James M. Babcock, Harsens Island         Rosalie R. Meiland, Ann Arbor
George R. DeMuth, Ann Arbor              Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
Jeffrey K. Liker, Ann Arbor              Gay Studlar, Dexter
Philip P. Mason, Dearborn


241




March Meeting, 2000


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions:
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective March 1, 2000
Establishing Professorship
Jon R. and Beverly S. Hold Professorship in Engineering, College of Engineering, five year renewable term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on March 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Fox, Merit B., Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor of Business and Law, Law School, six
month term
Other Personnel Appointments
Baum, David H., Assistant Dean of Students, Law School, three year term
Johnson, Charlotte H., Assistant Dean of Students, Law School, three year term
Martin, William C., Interim Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, Office of the President, March 6, 2000
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aso, Kumiko, M.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, January 1, 2000
Brown, Donna L., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
February 1, 2000
Buchanan, Neil H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, two
month term, July 1, 2000
Chang, Yi-Fen, B.S.E., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, four month term, January 1, 2000
Clemens, Judith M., M.A., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, four
month term, January 1, 2000
Kane, Mollie L., M.D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, one year term, November 24, 1999
Makoni, Sinfree, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, four month term, January 1, 2000
Mukherjee, Srilata, Ph.D., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
eleven month term, February 1, 2000
Nao, Brian S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
February 1, 2000
Neylon, Michael K., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, four month term,
January 1, 2000
Nkanga, Mbala, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, January 1, 2000 -May 31, 2002
Pearce, Bridget K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, seven
month term, February 1, 2000
Radev, Dragomir R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, February 1, 2000 -December 31, 2002
Rafter, Mary E., M.Sc., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, January 1, 2000 -August 31, 2003
Remmler, David E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
February 1, 2000
Suri, Pawan, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, April 1,2000- June 30, 2001


242




March Meeting, 2000


Vaitkevicius, Peter V., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
February 13, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baliga, Ragavendra R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year
term September 1, 1999 (previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
Saxe, Stephen J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
April 1, 2000-March 31, 2001 (previously reported as February 1, 2000-January 31, 2001)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS,
OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ben-Shahar, Omri, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Bohn, Amy C., from Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, to Clinical Instructor II in Medicine,
Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2000
McMahon, Laurence F., Jr., Acting Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Eldersveld, Samuel E., Professor Emeritus of Political science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Freter, Rolf G., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, February 1,
2000- January 31,2001
Gikas, Paul W., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001
Lenaghan, Robert T., Professor Emeritus of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 2000
Steinhoff, William R., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allor, Theresa M., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, personal leave, February 1 -March 5, 2000
Dewoskin, Kenneth J., Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of
Business Administration, duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 1999
Doering, Charles R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Frueh, Bartley R., Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, November 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Green, Brian P., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, University of Michigan Dearborn
School of Management, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
Griess, Robert L., Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Kazerooni, Ella A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
August 11-31, 1999, and sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-January 31, 2000


243




March Meeting, 2000


Koopman, James S., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 2000
Logue, Kyle D., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law, Law
School, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2000
McCracken, Peggy S., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Meisler, Miriam H., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2000
Morash, Ronald P., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, University of Michigan
Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Pavlidis, Dimitris, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Pedley, John G., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Pollack, Eileen K., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Qian, Jianming, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Schramm, Gene M., Professor of Semitics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Sneyd, A. James R., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, outside teaching assignment, January 1-December 31, 2000
Takahara, Takeshi, Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 2000
Wang, Lan, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal
leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Wasserman, Donna P., Assistant Professor of Political Science, University of Michigan Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, Research leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Zimmerman, Marc A., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School
of Public Health, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Chhibber, Pradeep K., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, cancellation of sabbatical leave reported effective January 1-December 31, 2000
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Chrisp, Clarence E., Professor of Comparative Pathology, Medical School, February 8, 2000
Resigned
Sacerdoti, Yaakova, Lecturer III in Hebrew Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Retired
Feld, Sheila C., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, May 31, 2000
Ingram, William, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Provost, Consuela M., Professor of English and Theatre, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, December 31, 1999
Sisson, James C., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, March 15, 2000
West, Patrick C., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, and Samuel T. Dana Associate
Professor of Outdoor Recreation, School of Natural Resources and Environment, May 31, 2000
Term Completed
Barber, Jennifer S., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
McLain, Paula J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1999


244




March Meeting, 2000


Retirement Memoirs.     Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted
retirement memoirs for five faculty members.
Robert S. Holbrook, Ph.D., associate provost and professor of economics in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on
January 31, 2000.
Professor Holbrook received his A.B. degree in 1961 from the University of San
Francisco and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 1964 and 1965, respectively, from the
University of California at Berkeley. He came to the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor of economics in 1965. He was promoted to associate professor in
1970 and professor in 1975.
Professor Holbrook specialized in the area of monetary economics.    He
distinguished himself by the outstanding quality of his research and writings, which
employed advanced techniques to shed light on issues of very practical importance. Two
of his research contributions stand out as particularly insightful and seminal. His 1972
publication, "Optimal Economic Policy and the Problem of Instrument Instability"
(American Economic Review, 62), demonstrated to the profession the existence of a
potentially significant side-effect of monetary policy and coined the term "instrument
instability" by which it has since become known. In the early days of the application of
optimal control techniques to issues of economic policy, Professor Holbrook produced a
series of outstanding papers in which he developed practical procedures for the
application of these techniques in the context of complex, non-linear, stochastic
economic models.
Professor Holbrook departed academic economics for academic administration in
the late 1970s, serving as associate dean in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts from 1978-81. What was initially to have been a quick stint of service turned into a
nearly two-decade-long career of exceptional distinction, in which economics lost
someone special, to the benefit of the entire University community. In 1981, Professor
Holbrook was appointed associate vice president for academic affairs in the Office of the
Vice President for Academic Affairs. He served in a number of administrative
appointments, including interim vice president for academic affairs, interim provost, and
associate provost. In addition to his distinguished academic career, Professor Holbrook
will be remembered for his major contributions to the development and restructuring of
the University of Michigan budget.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert S. Holbrook
professor emeritus of economics.
George W. Jourdian, Ph.D., professor of internal medicine and professor of
biological chemistry in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1999.
Professor Jourdian received his B.A. degree from Amherst College in 1951, his
M.S. degree from the University of Massachusetts in 1953, and his Ph.D. degree from
Purdue University in 1958. From 1958-61, he undertook postdoctoral training at the
University of Michigan Rackham Arthritis Research Unit. He joined the faculty as an
instructor in the Department of Biological Chemistry in 1961. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1963, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1974.
Professor Jourdian's work has focused on the biochemistry of glycoproteins and
carbohydrates and the relationship of carbohydrate-containing macromolecules to the
biology of cartilage. He is best known for discovering the phosphomannosyl receptor, a
molecule that controls the trafficking of lysosomal enzymes between intracellular and


245




March Meeting, 2000


extracellular compartments. This discovery, reported in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Science in 1981, is a landmark achievement. Professor Jourdian has also
developed a method of culture of chondrocytes in alginate beads that simulates the
microenvironment of cartilage.  This technique has been adopted by investigators
worldwide.
Professor Jourdian has been a respected and effective teacher of graduate and
professional students. His expertise in the biochemistry of glycoconjugates has been
sought by colleagues throughout the University and indeed, throughout the world. He
served on the editorial board of the Journal of Biological Chemistry for five years and on
the Physiological Sciences Study Section of the National Institutes of Health. He has
held several positions as an officer in the Society for Glycobiology and was president of
this group from 1987-89. In 1989, he organized the meeting of the Society for Complex
Carbohydrates which was held in Ann Arbor that year.
Throughout his career, Professor Jourdian has continued to personally conduct
experiments in his laboratory, rather than be content to direct the efforts of technicians
and students. He has been a role model for young scientists in training for over three decades.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming George W.
Jourdian professor emeritus of internal medicine and professor emeritus of biological
chemistry.
December 31, 1999, after nineteen years of service.
Born in Seoul, Korea, Ms. Lee received her B.S. degree from Korea University in
1963, her M.S. degree from Mississippi State University in 1966, and her M.L.S. degree
from the University of California at Berkeley in 1968. Ms. Lee worked in a number of
libraries before joining the University of Michigan in 1977 as a research assistant in the
Division of Research Development and Administration (DRDA). She moved to the
University Library in 1978 and worked as an assistant, then associate librarian in the
Undergraduate Library until 1981. She joined the staff of the Engineering Library as an
assistant librarian in 1984. She was promoted to associate librarian in 1988 and senior
associate librarian in 1997.
Within the Engineering Library, Ms. Lee took on the challenging duties of
selection, reference, and departmental liaison for one of the most prestigious professional
schools in the country. Over the years, Ms. Lee's role within the Engineering Library
grew. She supervised the Technical Processing Unit and oversaw the coordination of
collection development. She was the University Library's representative to the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.   Later, when the Engineering Library merged its
operations into the Media Union Library, Ms. Lee was named the head of collection
management. As such, she was responsible for the fund management of the Media
Union Library's 1.9 million-dollar materials budget. Her patient and impartial handling
of collection issues allowed her to work with selectors in both engineering and the arts.
Ms. Lee has been active on a variety of committees. Most notable has been her chairing
of the Media Union Library's E-resources Team. Through her contributions, she has
significantly helped the library in the transition from paper to digital resources.
Her colleagues in the University Library and the College of Engineering will miss
Ms. Lee's dedication to service and her gracious manner.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Theresa S. Lee
senior associate librarian emerita.


246




March Meeting, 2000


Carl H. Rinne, Ph.D., associate professor of education at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Rinne received his A.B. degree from DePauw University in 1957 and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University in 1963 and 1967, respectively. From
1967-70, he was an assistant professor at the University of Chicago and principal of the
University High School.  In 1970, he was appointed education director of the
Environmental Simulation Laboratory, School of Natural Resources, on the Ann Arbor
campus. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint in 1972 as assistant
professor of education and was promoted to associate professor in 1975.
An innovator in the area of classroom management, Professor Rinne coined the
term "low profile" teaching methods in teacher education literature. He demonstrated in
his own teaching and public lectures just how effectively skilled teachers can focus
student attention on lesson content automatically, without coercion or distraction. His
two published textbooks, Attention: The Fundamentals of Classroom Control (1984) and
Excellent Classroom Management (1997) elucidate low profile methodology for teachers
at all levels of instruction.
In 1991, Professor Rinne invented a futuristic training technology called the Skills
System which has been used to train pre-service teachers on the Flint campus and
graduate teaching assistants on the Ann Arbor campus. During his years on the
University of Michigan-Flint faculty, Professor Rinne created and taught courses in
classroom management, ethical issues in public administration, leadership theory and
practice, and instruction gaming and simulation.
Professor Rinne has served on numerous departmental and University committees,
including chair of the graduate board on two different occasions. He was instrumental in
establishing a chapter of the American Association of University Professors on the Flint
campus, and he has long been a member of the American Educational Research
Association and the American Society for Public Administration.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Carl H. Rinne associate
professor emeritus of education.
James C. Sisson, M.D., professor of internal medicine, Division of Nuclear
Medicine, Medical School, retired from active faculty status on March 15, 2000, after an
outstanding career as a clinician, teacher, and researcher.
Born in Tecumseh, Michigan, Dr. Sisson received his B.S. and M.D. degrees from
the University of Michigan in 1951 and 1954, respectively. From 1954-58, he received
postgraduate training in the Department of Internal Medicine at the University of
Michigan Hospitals. After serving as a captain in the U.S. Army Medical Corps from
1958-60, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan Medical School as an
instructor in 1960. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, associate professor
in 1967, and professor in 1972.
Very early, Dr. Sisson established an outstanding reputation in the new specialty of
nuclear medicine, introducing new uses for radioisotopes in the diagnosis and
therapeutics of thyroid and adrenal disorders. He attracted patient referrals from distant
medical centers and contributed important publications as a leader in the diagnosis of
benign and malignant diseases of endocrine organs. At the same time, he filled an
important teaching role with medical students and house officers who graded him highly
as a model physician. In 1991, the Michigan Chapter of the American College of
Physicians honored him with their prestigious Laureate Award. Dr. Sisson's reputation
as one of the top care-giving physicians in nuclear meicine was reflected by his recent
listing in the publication, Best Doctors ofAmerica.


247




March Meeting, 2000


The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming James C. Sisson professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Memorial Statements.   Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted a
memorial statement for Professor Clarence Chrisp.
Clarence Chrisp, D.V.M., professor of comparative veterinary pathology, died of
pancreatic cancer on February 8, 2000, following a seven-month period of illness under
the loving care of his wife, Rosalind.
Professor Chrisp was born on May 26, 1934, on his grandfather's cattle ranch near
Broken Bow, Nebraska. He first attended college at Colorado A&M, then transferred to
Iowa State. In need of additional funds, he took a break to teach in one-room schools in
Nebraska and Idaho. He then enrolled in the University of Idaho, where he received his
B.S. degree in microbiology. He earned his M.S. degree in veterinary microbiology
from Washington State University and his Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree at the
University of California at Davis in 1967. From 1967-69, he taught at the University of
Michigan Medical School. He then returned to the University of California at Davis to
continue his studies in veterinary pathology. While there, he co-authored two articles in
the journal Science on the mutagenetic nature of fly ash. In 1980, he took a position with
the Battelle Corporation in Westerville, Ohio. In 1982, he returned to the University of
Michigan Medical School, Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine.
Professor Chrisp provided training in pathology to veterinarians in the Unit for
Laboratory Animal Medicine's postdoctoral training program in comparative medicine.
Many leaders in the field of laboratory animal medicine learned about the pathology of
the many species used in research by sitting across from him at the teaching microscope.
In his role as a pathologist, he also made significant contributions to studies on cancer
and aging in laboratory rodents and, more recently, to the understanding of the
pathobiology of genetically modified mice.
Professor Chrisp had a lifelong interest in bird watching; at the time of his death he
had documented seeing at least 700 species of birds. Through the outreach program of
the Memorial Christian Church, where he was an active member, he became involved in
a medical mission project, making two separate journeys to Vietnam to assist with
setting up a clinic.
Professor Chrisp is survived by Rosalind Chrisp, his wife of 39 years, as well as
his sister, June Stone; his brother, Jerry Chrisp; his sons, Bruce and Eric; and his
daughters-in-law, Laura and Anna.
Degrees. President Bollinger submitted the following recommendations for
recipients of honorary degrees for the Spring 2000 Commencement: William Ferris,
Doctor of Humane Letters; David Halberstam, Doctor of Humane Letters; David
Hermelin, Doctor of Laws; Bernice Johnson Reagon, Doctor of Music; Lawrence
Kasdan, Doctor of Humane Letters; and Martinus Veltman, Doctor of Science. He
noted that David Halberstam would be the speaker at the undergraduate exercises and
that Bernice Johnson Reagon would speak at the University graduate exercises.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that up to $33 million from the Long
Term Portfolio had been committed to follow-on funds of three previously-approved


248




March Meeting, 2000


alternative asset partnerships:  Worldview Technology Partners III, L.P.; Matrix
Partners VI, L.P.; and TA Subordinated Debt Fund, L.P.
Existing Property Leases between the University of Michigan and Martin and
Affiliates
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that prior to the appointment of William C.
Martin as interim athletic director, multiple lease agreements had been entered into
between the University of Michigan and Martin and Affiliates, resulting in a
pre-existing business relationship. He stated that any leases negotiated during Mr.
Martin's tenure as interim athletic director will be processed under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Law.
Financial Statements and Reports Pursuant to Federal Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the financial statements and reports to
OMB Circular A-133 for the year ended June 30, 1999.
Status of Action Plans in Response to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Management Letter for FY 99
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a description and status of current
action plans in response to the FY 99 external financial audit and management letter.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Fiscal Year 2001 Capital Outlay Submission
Interim Chancellor Klein submitted the Fiscal Year 2001 Capital Outlay request
for the Dearborn Campus.
University of Michigan-Flint 2000-2001 Capital Outlay Submission
Chancellor Mestas submitted the Fiscal Year 2000-2001 Capital Outlay request for
the Flint Campus.
WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM              Statements of Support, Revenue
and Expenditures (Operating Fund) for the Years Ended June 30, 1999 and 1998
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Statements of Support, Revenue and
Expenditures (Operating Fund) for the Years Ended June 30, 1999 and 1998. He noted
that WFUM-TV has financial issues, including a negative balance situation, that
Chancellor Mestas is addressing.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for
the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1999
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the public broadcasting audits for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1999, as submitted.
Central Heating Plant 480 Volt Station Power System Upgrade
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the Central Heating Plant 480 Volt Station
Power System Upgrade Project as described in the Regents Communication.


249




March Meeting, 2000


Dennison Building Fire Protection Sprinklers and Classroom Renewal
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the Dennison Building Fire Protection Sprinkler Project as
described in the Regents Communication.
East University Plaza Area/Palmer Drive Correction of Flooding Problem
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with a project for construction of a pump storage
basin under the proposed Palmer Drive Parking Structure to alleviate flooding problems
in the Palmer Drive and East University Plaza areas.
Kraus Natural Sciences Building Second Floor Lab Renovation
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the Kraus Natural Sciences Building Second
Floor Lab Renovation Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovation of Hutchins Hall Classroom 220 in the Law School
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the renovation of Hutchins Hall Classroom 220, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Mason and Haven Hall Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved issuance of three early bid packages for demolition, foundations,
and structural steel for the Mason and Haven Hall Renovation Project. Executive Vice
President Kasdin observed that this procedure would only be used on a selected basis,
as appropriate.
S. T. Dana Building - School of Natural Resources and Environment Phase II
Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the budget for the S. T. Dana Building Phase II Renovation
Project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts
provided that bids are within the approved budget.
Parking Rate Increase
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that there continues to be a pressing
need for parking on the University of Michigan campus. Now that all but one structure
have been renovated and are in good repair, efforts will focus on the construction of
new parking structures. He noted that in Spring 2001, 277 spaces will be coming on line
in the Forest Street Structure, and a new structure holding 1,100 spaces is being planned
for Palmer Drive.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that as a result of recent legislation,
employees can pay for their parking permits with pretax dollars. The proposed
schedule of rate increases for the next three years will provide the funding for
construction of the Forest Street and Palmer Drive spaces, in addition to several
hundred more spaces in a yet to be determined location.


250




March Meeting, 2000


Regent Deitch moved approval of parking rate increases of 1.5 percent, 5.0
percent, and 4.5 percent, respectively, for the next three years. Regent McGowan
seconded the motion.
There was discussion of the cards that are required for admission to some "Gold"
parking lots. It was explained that these are necessary in some locations as a means of
access control to assure that people who have gold permits will find parking spots. In
addition, monitors have been put in place in most structures to assure that they are only
used by people who possess parking permits.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Parking Services Year 2000 Annual Maintenance Program
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Parking Services Year 2000 annual maintenance program.
Medical Science II and Buhl Center for Human Genetics Buildings Renovation
Project Phase II
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved putting out for bid the Medical Science II and Buhl Center for
Human Genetics Buildings Renovation Project Phase II.
Contract between the University of Michigan and Architecture Buro
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a contract between the University of Michigan and Architecture
Buro. Because the sole proprietor of Architecture Buro, Christian Unverzagt, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and Architecture
Buro.
2.   The service provided is design work for college functions and lecture series, to
be provided for the calendar year ending February 28, 2001, on two purchase
orders, each with a total cost of $2,250.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Christian Unverzagt, a
University of Michigan employee, is the sole proprietor of Architecture Buro.
Payment for Services of Denison Consulting LLC
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for services of Denison Consulting LLC. Because Dan
Denison was a University of Michigan employee at the time the service was provided
and also is joint owner of Denison Consulting LLC, this purchase falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Business School's Executive Education Center and Denison Consulting LLC.


251




March Meeting, 2000


2.   The service provided was a leadership development survey used as part of the
teaching materials for executive education programs.  The service was
provided in May of 1999 at a total cost of $1,948.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dan Denison, a University of
Michigan employee, is a joint owner of Denison Consulting LLC.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Djinesys, Inc.
Regent White moved approval of a license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Djinesys, Inc. Regent Maynard seconded the motion. Regent Deitch
announced that he would be recusing himself from consideration of this issue due to a
conflict of interest.  The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously by a vote of six in favor, none opposed, and one abstention.
The owner of Djinesys, Inc., Susan Hares, is also a University of Michigan
employee by virtue of her employment with Merit Network, Inc. ("Merit"). In addition,
the following individuals currently employed by Merit will be relinquishing their
University of Michigan positions by March 31, 2000, and will be employees at
Djinesys: Andy Adams, Christopher Ahn, Nicholas Amato, Eileen Aveni, David
Barnett, Michael Bartz, Chris Brown, Chris Hopps, Chris Richardson, Matt Richardson,
Steve Siadak, William Siadak, Robert Sills, Mariella Wells, and Shane Wright.
Therefore, this license agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Djinesys, Inc.,
a company owned by Ms. Hares.
2.   Contract terms include:
8% equity for the University on the same terms as the investors, nondilutable
until there has been $1,500,000 cash investment by third parties;
8% royalties on gross sales, to decline over a 5 year period, reaching 0 in the
6th year.
$100,000 minimum royalty payments to the University are guaranteed for
years 1 and 2.
Milestones include getting $600,000 within 12 months of signing the
Agreement and being in full operation within 6 months with a full time staff,
offices and equipment.
The University retains all rights necessary to continue to use and modify the
programs, and to meet obligations under existing licenses.
No use of University facilities nor assignment of University employees is
obligated under this agreement.
3.   Susan Hare's and her colleagues' pecuniary interests arise from ownership or
employment in the company.


252




March Meeting, 2000


License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL). Because the owner of TSRL,
Dr. Gordon Amidon, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TSRL, a company
owned by Gordon Amidon.
2.   Terms of the agreement include:
Non-exclusive right to further develop and commercialize the programs;
A one-time royalty payment of $5,000.
A royalty-free license for internal academic use by the University to the new
product developed by TSRL based on UM's program;
The University retains ownership of the program and may continue to further
develop it and use it as an educational tool and to license it to others.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Gordon Amidon's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in the company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and the University of
California at Berkeley
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and the
University of California at Berkeley. The agreement involves a subcontract to the
University of California at Berkeley to support collaborative activities with Dr. Liwei
Lin. Because Dr. Lin is an assistant professor at the University of Michigan who is on a
leave of absence and also holds the position of assistant professor with the University of
California at Berkeley, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the University of
California at Berkeley.
2.   Terms of the agreement include a total subcontract of approximately $911,129 to
cover the period September 1, 1999, through June 30, 2001. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Lin's appointment at the University of Michigan is without compensation
and is unrelated to his involvement with this research project.


253




March Meeting, 2000


Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Oak Ridge
National Laboratory
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, involving collaboration with Dr. Steve Lindberg of
Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Because Dr. Lindberg also holds an adjunct professor
appointment at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements.
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Oak Ridge
National Laboratory.
2.  Under the project, a total subcontract of approximately $247,880 is anticipated
to cover the period of September 1, 1999 through August 31, 2002. The terms
of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
3.  Dr. Lindberg's appointment at the University of Michigan runs through
August 31, 2000, and is without compensation.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Western Michigan
University
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Western Michigan University that involves a subcontract to Western Michigan
University to support the collaborative activities of Drs. David Karowe and Steve
Bertman of Western Michigan University. Because Drs. Karowe and Bertman also
have adjunct appointments at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Western Michigan
University.
2.  Under the project a total subcontract of approximately $972,842 is anticipated
to cover the period of July 1, 1999, to June 30, 2001. The terms of the
proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
3.   The adjunct appointments of Drs. Karowe and Bertman at the University of
Michigan are unrelated to their involvement with this subcontract.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Rubicon Genomics, Inc.
Regent Maynard moved approval of a license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Rubicon Genomics, Inc. Regent White seconded the motion. Regent
Deitch stated that he would recuse himself from voting due to a conflict of interest. The
vote was then taken and the motion was approved, with six in favor, none opposed, and
one abstention.
Because John Langmore (a current University of Michigan employee) and Vladimir
Makarov (a former University of Michigan employee) are also owners of Rubicon
Genomics, Inc., this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


254




March Meeting, 2000


1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Rubicon
Genomics, Inc.
2.   Contract Terms:
The contracts to be completed between the University and Rubicon Genomics,
Inc., include the license to be executed as well as documents covering stock
transfers and related matters.
The license will provide Rubicon Genomics, Inc., with worldwide, exclusive
rights to the technology for all relevant fields of use. The University will retain
ownership of the technology, internal research use rights, and the right to
convey the standard governmental license.
The University will receive 2% of all net sales of products of Rubicon
Genomics, Inc.; 2% to 15% of royalties Rubicon Genomics, Inc., receives
from sublicensees, depending upon Rubicon's financial performance; 50% of
amounts Rubicon receives from "passive" sublicensing activities, a minimum
annual royalty of $50,000 beginning in 2001; a requirement that Rubicon
Genomics, Inc., secure at least $1,750,000 in outside funding for the
company's development activities by March 31, 2002; once that funding has
been obtained, receipt by the University of equity equal to a number of shares
which, after such receipt, will equal approximately 3.85% of the total number
of shares issued to or reserved for all parties in any way, including all options,
warrants and convertible securities exercisable therefore, and all shares
reserved for future issuance.
Rubicon Genomics, Inc., will be obligated to use its best efforts to develop
products based upon the technology and will give primary consideration to the
maintenance of business offices in the state of Michigan.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, will be obligated under the license and agreements related thereto.
3.   Dr. Langmore's and Dr. Makarov's pecuniary interests arise from their equity
ownership interest in Rubicon Genomics, Inc. They will, to the extent
necessary to comport with the University Policy on Intellectual Property,
waive personal participation in the sharing of revenues received by the
University from Rubicon Genomics, Inc.
2000-2001 University Housing Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Regent Maynard moved approval of proposed average rate increases of 3.0 percent
for residence hall room and board and 2.9 percent for family housing apartment rentals,
as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and
it was approved unanimously.
It was noted that discussion is ongoing within the Housing Division and the
Information Technology Division about negotiating more competitive long distance
telephone rates. Vice President Harper also noted that future planning for residence hall
facilities is being encompassed within the broader context of issues being studied by the
Commission on Undergraduate Education, which is chaired by Provost Cantor.
Regent Newman commented that she believes a study should be undertaken of
whether there is a need for additional student housing, apart from other issues under
review by the commission. Provost Cantor pointed out that the commission will be


255




March Meeting, 2000


studying all aspects of student life at the University. Its work will include an analysis
of the local rental housing market, determining whether the number of miles away from
campus that students are living has increased, parking issues, and residence hall
population mixes. She noted that Interim Vice President Harper is a member of the
commission, and that Housing Director William Zeller and many others will be
contributing to the commission's work.
"Michigan Greats"
Vice President Ulaby introduced Philip Gingerich, director and curator of the
Museum of Paleontology, professor of geological sciences, professor of biological
sciences, and professor of anthropology. Professor Gingerich described his research in
paleontology and anthropology at the University of Michigan.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated:
Robert Alarie, alumnus, regarding a petition to enroll in the College of Engineering;
Louisa Pieper, alumna, regarding preservation and adaptation of the Frieze Building;
Joe Reilly, student and member of the Students of Color Coalition, regarding
Michigamua; and Audrey Jackson, alumna, regarding Michigamua.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:20 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for April 13-14, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


256




APRIL MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 13, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch was absent.
Comments from President Bollinger
Vice President for Communications. President Bollinger called the meeting to
order and announced that he would be recommending the appointment of Lisa Rudgers
as vice president for communications. He noted that she is a person of extraordinary
talent, and that her fundamental goal will be to make sure that University issues and
identity are accurately and honestly presented.
Gift from Richard and Susan Rogel. President Bollinger announced that
Richard and Susan Rogel had committed $22 million for financial aid, which is the
largest gift for financial aid in the history of the University and "an outstanding act of
generosity." He observed that Richard Rogel has played many different roles at the
University, including his current service as president of the Alumni Association and
member of the Commission on Undergraduate Education and has given gifts to a wide
variety of schools, colleges, and programs. He noted that this gift also establishes a
high standard for the upcoming capital campaign, as it will help communicate the needs
and fundraising potential for the University.
Provost Cantor commented that it is becoming more difficult for the University of
Michigan to compete for students, because many instate students receive aid packages
from outstate institutions and there is fierce competition for nonresident students. She
noted that the Commission on Undergraduate Education has identified financial aid for
both undergraduate and graduate students as a critical need.
President Bollinger indicated that the University hopes to reach beyond the $1.4
billion total raised in the last capital campaign during the upcoming campaign. He
recognized the special efforts of Associate Vice President Chacona Johnson with regard
to the recent gift from the Rogels.
Symposium: "After the Fall: Vietnam Plus Twenty-five." President Bollinger
commented that in conjunction with the recent release of a number of previously
classified documents having to do with the end of the Vietnam War, the Gerald R. Ford
Library had recently sponsored a symposium to consider the legacy of the Vietnam
War. He noted that speakers at the conference had praised the Regents' action in
naming the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy for President Ford, and that there
would be a formal celebration of this action in September 2000.


257




April Meeting, 2000


Course on gay culture. President Bollinger noted that there had been significant
publicity surrounding the introduction of a course on gay culture to be offered by the
Department of English. He said that "It is the role of a university to think about what it
means to be human to think about the physical world and the human world and what it
means to be human, and this course is one facet of that study." He noted that over the
past 20 years one intellectual interest has been to think about popular culture and the
way in which people create their identity in the world, and that this course follows that
tradition. He noted that "we believe this course has academic value and that the process
by which it was been created is sound."
The Naked Mile. President Bollinger observed that University officials have
mounted an extensive public relations campaign in an effort to discourage students from
participating in the "Naked Mile," slated to be held on the evening of the last day of
classes.  He emphasized that the University does not condone this activity and
encourages students not to participate.
Space allocation for student organizations. President Bollinger noted that a
panel had been appointed to make recommendations about the allocation of space for
student organizations, and its report would be issued within the next few days.
Media Rights Across the Campus
Provost Cantor introduced Professor James Hilton, special assistant to the provost
for media rights, who has been assigned the task of looking at the implications of new
media on campus, especially with respect to intellectual property rights, copyrights, and
fair use issues and policies. She also indicated that the Office of the General Counsel
and the Office of the Vice President for Research were collaborating with the Office of
the Provost in the examination of these issues.
Professor Hilton explained that intellectual property rights issues arise in the
classroom and in publishing on the Internet and in many other settings across the
University where the use of multimedia is prevalent.  He explained the purpose of
copyright, noting that owning a work has nothing to do with copyright and that it
protects the expression of ideas, not the ideas themselves. He observed that copyright
happens at the moment of creation, so that the majority of works are protected by
copyright.
Professor Hilton noted that copyright has become a major issue because of
increased visibility and the prevalence of technology, which by its nature requires that
ideas be copied electronically in order to be accessed. The commodification of
information and academic tradition and economics has also made intellectual property
an important issue.  He pointed out that as creators, users, and distributors of
copyrighted material, universities are in a unique position to address the balance among
these interests.
He concluded by describing activities being undertaken at the University of
Michigan in this regard, including engaging the University community in conversations
about these issues, coordinating the delivery of services, and documenting current
policies and developing new policies to address any gaps.
Regent Newman requested that there be a follow-up presentation on this and other
intellectual property issues. President Bollinger thanked Professor Hilton and said that
he would be invited back in the near future to continue this discussion.


258




April Meeting, 2000


Campus Development in Support of the Life Sciences Initiatives
President Bollinger reviewed the work of the Life Sciences Commission and
emphasized that they laid the foundation on how to proceed with developing initiatives
in the life sciences at the University. A number of steps have been taken, including the
hiring of additional faculty, the development of an expanded undergraduate curriculum
in life sciences, the development of an interdisciplinary program in bioinformatics, and
the enhancement of biomedical engineering. The next stage is the development of the
physical structures to support the academic initiatives.
President Bollinger introduced Professor Jack Dixon, chair of the Life Sciences
Advisory Committee. Professor Dixon praised the Regents for their courage and
foresight in supporting the establishment of a life sciences initiative at the University of
Michigan, noting that this early support enabled the University to have a number of
advantages over its competitors. He noted that the advisory committee is currently
considering candidates for director of the Life Sciences Institute and pointed out that
the publicity garnered in soliciting candidates has led to the University being widely
recognized for its efforts nationally and internationally.
Professor Dixon observed that another goal of the program was to construct a new
research facility that would link the Medical School and the main campus both
physically and intellectually. This building would house the scientists who work in life
sciences areas whose goal is to interact in a synergistic way. He said the committee had
spent months working with the architects planning the inside of the building, which will
be state-of-the-art and flexible in the kinds of laboratories that can be set up. The
design will maximize interactions among various groups and among scientists within
those groups. Professor Dixon concluded that this facility represents a milestone in that
it will provide a physical representation of the efforts being undertaken in the life
sciences.
President Bollinger noted that the University needs to take long term views of such
investments. At times such as this, when the world is changing in terms of research and
teaching to the extent and scope that is now being seen, the University has to have the
courage to make a commitment early and to be willing to stay in over the long haul,
despite any setbacks that might occur along the way. He noted that it is important to
maintain the current pace in developing the physical space necessary to achieve these
goals so as to be able to recruit top scientists.
Dean Allen Lichter noted that the Regents had toured the Kresge Medical
Research Buildings and had discussed research needs in the Medical School. He cited
three reasons for construction of a new facility on the current site of the Kresge Medical
Research Buildings: 1) the need to replace the Kresge buildings; 2) the need for the
Medical School to be an active participant in the life sciences initiative by creating
buildings that will arise simultaneously with the Life Sciences Institute; and 3) the fact
that there are no facilities currently available to accommodate needed growth in the
Medical School.
Dean Lichter pointed out that although the Medical School is one of the leading
institutions in terms of the amount spent on research and development, five of the top
ten research institutions are growing at a rate substantially faster than the University of
Michigan. In order to retain its leadership position, the University must increase its
research expenditures in all areas. With life sciences research accounting for 50 percent


259




April Meeting, 2000


of total research expenditures, however, growth in total research expenditures is
dependent upon growth in life sciences research, and the new buildings will make this
possible.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reiterated the three-step process by which construction
projects are reviewed by the Regents, noting that the four projects to be considered at
this meeting as part of the life sciences initiative are in different stages of development.
He pointed out the location of each building on a campus site plan.
Life Sciences Institute Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Mr. Victor Cordone, partner in the
Smith Group, architects for the interior of the Life Sciences Institute Building. Mr.
Cordone displayed diagrams of the proposed interior of the building, which will consist
of six stories plus a seventh floor that will house mechanical equipment. He said that it
will be 230,000 gross square feet, with the first floor (underground level) housing
animals and the second floor (ground level) consisting of mechanical space and
building services. He displayed schematic designs of floors three-six, noting that the
third floor will house the director's office suite and laboratory as well as space for
visiting scientists and will be the most "public" floor, and the remaining floors will
contain the majority of the laboratory space.  The goal is to create flexible,
state-of-the-art, laboratory space in the building.
Next, Robert Venturi of Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates described plans for
the exterior of the building. He noted that the approach would be to retain the look of
the traditional loft buildings found in a number of locations on the central campus. He
showed examples of the building materials that are being considered for the exterior.
Responding to a question from Regent McGowan about the impact that this
complex will have on the view as seen from automobiles driving on Washtenaw
Avenue toward Huron Street, Mr. Venturi stated that there will be an appealing variety
among the complex of buildings with a harmonious connection among buildings. The
quality will derive from variety as opposed to consistency.
Regent Newman inquired about the source of funds for each building. Executive
Vice President Kasdin clarified that of the four buildings under consideration, the Life
Sciences Institute Building is being funded by the $200 million from Hospital reserves
authorized by the Regents, and that construction will not begin until the design is
complete. Funding for the Commons Building will come either from gifts or from
central administration; the parking structure will be funded by parking revenue; and the
Zina Pitcher project will be funded by the Medical School. Executive Vice President
Kasdin noted that there is a strict policy with regard to funding for building projects:
either the money needs to be in the account; or auxiliary activities operations that have
certain types of revenue can be debt-financed; or if the project is identified by the
provost as so important to the University it is financed with a debt obligation from the
General Fund. He emphasized that all of the building projects will be returned to the
Regents for approval with financing plans in place before being put out to bid.
Medical Research Laboratory Facility Project
Regent McGowan moved approval of the Medical School's Medical Research
Laboratory Facility Project. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.


260




April Meeting, 2000


Palmer Drive Commons Building Project
Regent McGowan moved approval of the Palmer Drive Commons Building
Project and authorized commissioning SmithGroup, Inc., and Venturi, Scott Brown and
Associates, Inc., as architects/engineers. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
President Bollinger observed that the way in which this combination of buildings
interact with and affect the community have been part of the planning from the very
beginning. The University understands that these structures will be located on a route that
many Ann Arbor citizens take hundreds of times in any given year and therefore they
have an important effect on the community. He noted that University officials have a
policy of communicating with city leaders about any campus projects that will have an
impact on the community.  In some cases, such as Michigan Stadium and Hill
Auditorium, use of University facilities by the broader public is such that they require
even broader engagement with the community.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the University has made a
commitment to the community to engage it in the University's master planning process
as it unfolded. To that end, the Ann Arbor community as well as the Regents have been
presented with the three of the five phases of the master planning effort that have now
been completed. He observed that the University receives good ideas from community
members and that it will continue to seek community input. Although there has been
excellent cooperation on the staff level for years between city and University officials
on many projects, Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that more recently,
community leaders have experienced that their input is really valued at the senior levels
of administration at the University.
President Bollinger concluded that these buildings are important to University
faculty and staff as members of the Ann Arbor community and have been discussed over a
long period of time. Discussions will continue as more detailed design plans become
available.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Life Sciences Institute Building
Regent McGowan moved approval of the schematic design of the Life Sciences
Institute Building. Regent Maynard seconded the motion and it was approved, with
Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor in favor and
Regent White opposed.
Palmer Drive Parking Structure Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that a firm budget has been established for
this project and that its expected completion date is early winter of 2002. On a motion
by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved
the Palmer Drive Parking Structure Project design and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding a construction contract.
Executive Vice President Kasdin thanked the architects, Dean Lichter, and
Professor Dixon for their efforts in bringing these projects to fruition. President
Bollinger thanked everyone who had worked on the projects, commenting "There is, in
my view, genius behind this broad conception of how to use this space, and we really
appreciate it. This is a great moment for the University."


261




April Meeting, 2000


ROTC
Regent Newman reported that the LS&A curriculum committee had recently
approved three ROTC courses to receive LS&A credit. She said that she and Regent
White appreciate the efforts of the LS&A faculty in bringing this about, noting that it
will enable ROTC students to graduate in four years instead of four-and-a-half years.
Regent White associated herself with Regent Newman's comments, noting that having
participated in ROTC on a no-credit basis herself, she could appreciate how meaningful
this action would be for ROTC students.
Regent White left the meeting at this point, at 3:20 p.m.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper by the University
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a resolution authorizing the issuance of up to $170 million of
commercial paper supported by a pledge of General Revenues and to authorize the
executive vice president and chief financial officer to a) execute all the documentation
for the establishment of the Series C commercial paper and the rollover of the
outstanding commercial paper into the proposed Series C program; b) apply for a rating
from the rating agencies, if necessary, for the Series C commercial paper; and c)
negotiate a liquidity facility, if appropriate. (See Appendix A, page 277.)
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the commitment of $20.0 million to Francisco Partners, L.P.,
and $10.0 million to TCV IV, L.P.
Contract with Huron Systems, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a contract with Huron Systems, Inc. Because the president of
Huron Systems, Inc., James B. Martin, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Medical Center Information Technology Division, and Huron Systems, Inc.
2.  The service provided is process and data flow mapping as it relates to Y2K, to
be provided for the calendar period beginning October 1, 1999 and ending
March 30, 2000, with a total cost of $35,600.00.
3.  The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that James B. Martin, a University
of Michigan employee, is the president of Huron Systems, Inc.
Payment for Services of Tovar Hook & Loop
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously authorized payment for the services of Tovar Hook & Loop. Because
Keith L. T. Alexander is both a University of Michigan employee and an officer of Tovar
Hook & Loop, this purchase falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


262




April Meeting, 2000


1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
University of Michigan Hospital's Occupational Therapy Clinic, and Tovar
Hook & Loop.
2.  The product provided was splint material in the University of Michigan maize
color, with a total cost of $48.00.
3.  The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Keith L. T. Alexander, a
University of Michigan employee, is the vice president of sales and marketing
of Tovar Hook & Loop.
C.C. Little Building Geochemistry Clean Laboratory Renovation-Phase II
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved Phase II of the Geochemistry Clean Laboratory Renovation
Project in the C.C. Little Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
Burton Memorial Tower Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Burton Memorial Tower Renovation Project for bids
and awarding a construction contract providing the bids are within the approved budget.
Power Center for Performing Arts Stage Lighting Replacement
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacement of the stage lighting at the Power
Center for Performing Arts.
University of Michigan Hospitals Relocation and Expansion of Endocrine and
Diabetes Clinics to Briarwood Building 2
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved relocation and expansion of the Endocrine and Diabetes Clinics
to Briarwood Building 2, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Phase III: The
University Mall Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of the firm of Neumann Smith & Associates for
design of Phase III of the Dearborn Campus Renovation Project, involving renovation
of the University Mall Building.
University of Michigan-Flint Northbank Center Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Northbank Center Renovation Project, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Inauguration of Chancellor Mestas
President Bollinger congratulated Chancellor Mestas on his recent inauguration
ceremony. He noted that Chancellor Mestas "has inspired enormous good feeling on
campus and in the community."


263




April Meeting, 2000


Report and Recommendations of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on Tobacco
Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted for information the report and
recommendations of the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee on Tobacco Investments.
Appointment of Auditors for 1999-00
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors for
1999-00.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and
Agreements, FY99
Vice President Ulaby submitted the annual report on implementation of the
Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and Agreements, FY99.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2001
Regent Horning moved approval of the proposed Regents' Meeting schedule for
2001. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent Newman proposed consideration of changing to a one-day meeting
schedule, to be held all day on Thursday, rather than the current Thursday
afternoon/Friday morning schedule, with Public Comments to be held in the late
morning prior to breaking for lunch. Regent Horning expressed support for this notion.
Regent Maynard commented that she preferred the flexibility of having the
two-day period on the schedule, with the decision on whether a meeting would last one
or two days would be decided on a case-by-case basis.
President Bollinger commented that there are times when the overnight period
provided by the two-day meeting schedule becomes useful for reflection prior to acting
on items raised Thursday afternoon or during Public Comments. He noted that there are
times when more can be accomplished over a two-day period than when a meeting is
condensed into one day, but that the administration continues to work to make meetings
as efficient as possible.
Regent Brandon expressed support for a meeting that would last one full day.
Regent McGowan observed that arrangements for meetings occurring over two
days allows time for board members to come to campus and accomplish more than
would be the case with a one-day-only meeting, and this time spent on campus is
important to the campus community. Regent Maynard pointed out that the free time on
Thursday morning allowed by the current schedule gives Regents the opportunity to
meet with people and to learn more about the University.
It was decided that it would be advisable to have all Regents present in order to
resolve this issue. Regent Newman moved to amend the current motion so as to table
the item until next month. Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved,
with Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, Newman, and Taylor in favor and Regent
McGowan opposed.


264




April Meeting, 2000


Building Naming
Chancellor Mestas commented that the Professional Studies and Classroom
Building had been funded with a generous grant from the Mott Foundation, which is led
by William S. White. Mr. White has also been one of the most important civic leaders
in the city of Flint, and both the University and the community would be very pleased
by honoring Mr. White in this fashion. Regent Maynard moved approval of naming the
Professional Studies and Classroom Building at the University of Michigan-Flint the
William S. White Building. Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.031 (The University of MichiganDearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee)
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.031. The revised bylaw
follows:
Bylaw Sec. 11.031. The University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and seven faculty members of senate
rank to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the chancellor and the president.
The appointed members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one
year. The terms shall be for three years and shall be so adjusted that at least two vacancies
shall occur each year. The dean shall chair the committee.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the
March 2000 meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment, Plant Extension, and Noncompetitive Purchases Over $5,000
From Single Sources from December 16, 1999, to March 15, 2000.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the report on Projects
Established for March 2000.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Harper submitted a report on the
University Activities Center (UAC) prepared by Abby Adair, president of UAC. Ms.
Adair commented on the activities of UAC.
Michigan Student Assembly Report.       Bram  Elias, outgoing president of
Michigan Student Assembly, gave a personal retrospective of his experience at the
University of Michigan and the things he had learned as an officer of Michigan Student
Assembly.
Following his report, Mr. Elias introduced Hideki Tsutsumi, newly-elected
president of MSA. Mr. Tsutsumi commented that he came to the United States from
Japan four years ago, and that he is the first international student ever elected as MSA
president. He said he is looking forward to working with everyone over the coming
year.


265




April Meeting, 2000


University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
distributed statistical information about the health system and the new magazine,
Medicine at Michigan. He also commented on several recent news articles and events
involving the health system.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Interim Chancellor Klein reported on several
items of note on the Dearborn campus and noted that the chancellor search committee
had submitted its slate of finalists to President Bollinger.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas had no additional news to report.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report on Voluntary
Support for March 2000.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the Medical School............................................ $ 35,000
Susan Adelman, M.D. Fund of the Philanthropic Fund,
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship in the Medical School.......... 10,000
Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, California
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Michael S. Aldrich, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Michael S. Aldrich Endowment in the Medical School........................ 12,091
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 91,134
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 41,787
Andersen Consulting Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,150
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  54,230
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 100,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 8,500
AT&T Labs, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 50,000
Automotive Systems Laboratory, Farmington Hills
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 75,000
Azalea Foundation, St. Simons Island, Georgia
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  10,000
John A. Beierwaltes Trust
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,940
Berbee Information Networks, Madison, Wisconsin
for   W U O M...............................................................  16,380
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack L. and Barbara A. Berman Merit Scholarship and other support
in  the  M edical School.........................................................  5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
95 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 5,733
Patricia Beurket Estate
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 17,138
Brand Doctors, Chicago, Illinois
for the Gerald A. Cole Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,000
Roger W. Brown Trust
for the Roger W. Brown Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 8,848
Clannad Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 5,000
CoCensys, Inc., Irvine, California
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  15,000


266




April Meeting, 2000


Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Pierre V. Heftier Scholarship in the Law School and for support in the
Schools of Business Administration and Medicine................................. 41,000
Compuware Corporation, Farmington Hills
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
University  of M ichigan-Dearborn..............................................  8,710
Arthur F. Coxford, Jr., Trust
for the Jones-Payne Award Fund in the School of Education......................... 10,000
Crown Books Foundation, Washington, DC
for the Sarah E. Metzger Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music................ 10,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute DaimlerChrysler Endowment in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.................. 350,000
Virginia L. Dawson Estate
697 shares of various corporate common stocks
for support in the Medical School..............................................  44,550
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the Kresge Hearing Research Institute........... 13,333
Dell Computer Corporation, Round Rock, Texas
for research in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering
and for the Linux  Scalability Project Fund....................................... 132,602
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  16,250
Robert A. DeVries, Battle Creek
for the Robert and Eleanor DeVries China Nursing Leadership Fund in the School
of  N ursing..................................................................  5,000
William T. Dobson Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Schools
of Business Administration and Medicine and in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship in the Center
for the Education of Women, and for the University Musical Society................... 13,500
Dow AgroSciences, LLC, Midland
for research  in the School of Public Health.......................................  75,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 20,000
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,006
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  8,650
Gertrude Eaton Estate
for support in the Medical School, in memory of George A. Stimson................... 50,000
Stu Evans Lincoln-Mercury Garden City, Garden City
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn................ 5,600
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Richard and Trudy Crandall Fund in the Medical School and for other
support at the University  of M ichigan...........................................  12,750
Edsel B. Ford II, Dearborn
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of
M ichigan-D earborn..........................................................  8,040
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the support in the School of Business Administration, for research in the
College of Engineering, for the Transportation Reporting Fellowship in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and for special events support
at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 485,320
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for the Harmonize
for Hope Fund in the Medical School, and for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 86,334
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for special events support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 10,600
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 16,600
Frances Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  19,000
Fujitsu Laboratories of America, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 15,000


267




April Meeting, 2000


Anne V. Fuller Trust
for the biological station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 10,469
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,117
William M. Gibson, Evans, Georgia
for the James O. Wilkes Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering....... 10,000
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 25,000
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, DC
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources and
Environm ent...............................................................  10,000
Sheila F. Hamp, Dearborn
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of
Michigan-Dearborn..........................................................  5,000
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
for the David and Marion Handleman Academic Fund in the Medical School.......... 100,000
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
for  W U O M.................................................................  5,772
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Fund of the Community Foundation for Palm Beach and
Martin Cities, West Palm Beach, Florida;
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  12,500
John J. Hart Estate
for the John Hart Scholarship in the College of Engineering......................... 593,688
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 29,200
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Population Studies Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 75,000
Gertrude V. Huebner, Ann Arbor
62 shares of Exxon-Mobil Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the James 0. Wilkes Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering
and for the Paul C. Boylan Professorship in the School of Music........................,695
Hughes Electronics Corporation, Los Angeles, California
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,600
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research  in the School of Information......................................... 62,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 86,679
Janssen Pharmaceutical, Piscataway, New Jersey
for the Raymond W. Waggoner Fund in the Medical School.......................... 8,000
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 80,099
John M. Jenks, Leawood, Kansas
225 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 6,237
S. C. Johnson Wax Fund, Inc., Racine, Wisconsin
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 330,416
Douglas I. Kalish, London, England
200 shares of Scient Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 17,188
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art and the University Musical Society........................... 25,500
Charles C. Killin, Naples, Florida
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital...........................................  14,398
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies........................................................  650,000
Jane S. Lack, Victoria, Texas
1,550 shares of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 138,725
Lake Superior Basin Trust
for research in the School of Public Health......................................  275,000
Chu Yong Lee, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 20,000


268




April Meeting, 2000


Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 20,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Social Work........................................ 300,000
Elizabeth J. Macomber Estate
9,129 units of Franklin Michigan mutual fund
for the Elizabeth J. Macomber Fund in the Law School and for support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 104,250
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 25,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 5,000
Ronald McDonald Children's Charities, Oak Brook, Illinois
for support in the Division of Kinesiology........................................ 24,980
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
60 shares of General Electric common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration..... 8,188
Merck & Company, Inc., Farmington Hills
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry.......................... 14,000
Agnes M. Miner Trust
for the  M useum   of A rt........................................................  6,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................... 5,000
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for student aid  in  the M edical School............................................ 29,563
J. P. Morgan Charitable Trust, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 7,415
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Ralph S. Mosca, Saline
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the School of Music and for employee matching gifts................... 24,615
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,723
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 104,016
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Michigan Chapter, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 8,642
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Knoxville, Tennessee
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 15,000
Northern Star Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Paul and Jean Matthews Endowed Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................  320,000
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
John Nuveen & Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,016
Donald A. Ocker, Wayland, Massachusetts
186 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music................................ 24,331
Orthopedic Trauma Association, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  19,984
Owner Operator Services, Inc., Grain Valley, Missouri
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 10,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 71,750
Peck Family Trust
for the P. Gregory Peck Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............... 5,000
Pentax Precision Instrument Corporation, Orangeburg, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 20,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000


269




April Meeting, 2000


Donald A. Pomerening, Alexandria, Virginia
100 shares of America Online, Inc., common stock
for the Dana Renovation Project Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.... 6,088
Laverne L. Prager, Washington, Connecticut
13,328 units of various mutual funds
for the Karsten Prager Fellowship in International Journalism in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......................................... 504,187
Prentice Foundation, Inc., Westport, Connecticut
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 15,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health and in
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the
Michigan Leadershape Institute, the Career Planning and Placement Office
and the Procter & Gamble President's Fund..................................... 112,000
Protein Design Labs, Inc., Fremont, California
for research in the Medical School............................................... 5,000
Raytech, Corporation, Crawfordsville, Indiana
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 7,500
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
74 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Rearick Graduate Student Support Fund in the School of Education.............. 10,309
Reitter & Schefenacker USA, Rochester Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School................. 13,291
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for the Albert Hermalin Scholars Fund in the Institute for Social Research............... 5,000
Harriet G. Rosenberg Charitable Remainder Trust
for support of the Law School, in memory of Bernard W. Rosenberg................... 15,700
Ernestine Ruben, Princeton, New Jersey
400 shares of Schlumberger, Ltd., common stock
for support in  the M useum   of Art............................................... 31,488
Michael A. Sakkinen Estate
for the Michael and Joan Sakkinen Endowment in the School of Business Administration..... 501,816
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 50,000
Sharon Schreiber, Flint
for the Gerald and Sharon Schreiber Student Research Fund, University of Michigan-Flint...... 7,000
Secat, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 45,000
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC., Phoenix, Arizona
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 30,000
Kenneth M. Siegel Estate
for the Honorable Kenneth M. Siegel Endowed Student Aid Fund in the Law School,
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for ophthalmology support
in  the  M edical School........................................................ 43,038
Smith & Nephew, Inc., Largo, Florida
for research in the School of Business Administration............................... 40,000
Elizabeth W. Souter Estate
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering...... 16,918
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, for the Michigan Journalism Fellows
Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and for research
in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender............................... 290,650
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public Health and for
em ployee  m atching  gifts......................................................  10,100
Textron Automotive, Troy
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Thyssen, Inc., North America, Detroit
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School................................. 25,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,000
Linda L. Trese, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000


270




April Meeting, 2000


Susan B. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
121 shares of Qualcomm, Inc., common stock
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, for the John F. Ullrich
Prize Fund and the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering
and for the University Musical Society.......................................... 16,214
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 50,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................... 6,000
Richard J. Vogel, Topeka, Kansas
for research in the Medical School............................................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and the College of Engineering..................... 80,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for support in the School of Dentistry, and for employee matching gifts................. 5,550
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 15,000
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Tacoma, Washington
for the Weyerhaeuser Student Research Fellowships in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment................................................... 22,500
Whatman Arbor Technologies, Inc., Tewksbury, Massachusetts
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  11,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,700
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  10,000
Zatkoff Seals & Packings, Farmington
for the Men's Soccer Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics........................ 10,000
The following non monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
William B. Becker, Huntington Woods
an archive of photographs by Artin Hovespian for the Clements Library
Donald R. Brown, Ann Arbor
891 books and a collection of journals for the Department of Psychology
John C. Dann, Dexter
a collection of items on various aspects of American history for the Clements Library
Thomas Heffernan, West Hurley, New York
a laptop computer and related items for the College of Engineering
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the School of Information
KLS Martin, L.P., Jacksonville, Florida
dental instruments for the School of Dentistry
Agnes M. Miner, Ann Arbor
Bolivian silver and a Bolivian mask for the Museum of Art
Aleksandar Nikolovski, Dearborn Heights
a three dimensional stretching device for the School of Dentistry
Frank C. Parkins, Marietta, Georgia
a collection of the James Thomas papers for the Clements Library
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
eight binders of various printed items, photographs, and slides for the Department of History of Art
George H. Tweney, Seattle, Washington
twenty seven paintings, drawings, photographs, and pieces of ephemera about A. Edward Newton
for the Clements Library
Bethine S. Whitney, Grosse Pointe Farms
a sculpture by Ellen Driscoll for the Museum of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Douglas J. Aikenhead, Chelsea             William S. Parker, Sacramento, California
Jacqueline R. Brown, Ann Arbor            David Tracy, Ann Arbor
Theodore O'Dell, Milan


271




April Meeting, 2000


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel actions.
Vice President Ulaby highlighted the request for the appointment of James
Penner-Hahn as associate vice president for research.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE.
Effective September 1, 2000
Morrow, James D., Ph.D., Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE.
Effective on the dates indicated
Foran, Nancy J., Associate Professor of Accounting, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of
Management, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2003
Mortensen, Richard M., M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physiology and Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 1, 2000
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Munzel, Erica A., Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer, Law School, one year term, May 1, 2000
Woestehoff, Sue A., Chair, Department of Education, University of Michigan-Flint School of Education
and Human Services, one year term, July 1, 2000
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Betts, Norman J., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, April 1, 2000
Bloom, David A., Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Goldstein, Steven A., from Interim Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies to Associate Dean
for Research and Graduate Studies, Medical School, April 1, 2000
Penner-Hahn, James E., Associate Vice President for Research, Office of the Vice President for
Research, three year term, May 1, 2000
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS.
Effective on the dates indicated
Additional Unendowed School/College Professorships. The Regents approved
the establishment of 30 additional unendowed school/college professorships, effective
May 1, 2000, bringing the total to date to 124.
Establishing Professorships
Louise Cuyler Collegiate Professorship in Music, School of Music, five year renewable term,
September 1, 2000
Sheila Feld Collegiate Professorship in Social Work, School of Social Work, five year renewable term,
June 1, 2000
John Gideon Searle Assistant Professorship, College of Pharmacy, May 1, 2000


272




April Meeting, 2000


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Feigal, Robert J., Samuel D. Harris Collegiate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, three year
term, April 1, 2000
Solomon, Michael J., Dow Coming Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of
Engineering, three year term, September 1, 2000
Yang, Victor Chi-Min, Albert B. Prescott Professor of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, five year
term, September 1, 2000
Reappointment to Established Professorship
Freed, Gary L., Percy J. Murphy, M.D., and Mary C. Murphy, R.N., Professor in Pediatrics for Child
Health Delivery, Medical School, four year term, July 1, 1999
Other Transactions
Rudgers, Lisa M., Vice President for Communications, Office of the President, May 15, 2000
Webb, William C., Jr., from Assistant Vice Chancellor for Administration to Interim Vice Chancellor for
Administration, University of Michigan-Flint Office of the Chancellor, April 3, 2000
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bhavnani, Suresh K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, one year term,
January 10, 2000
Freeman, Lee A., M.B.A., Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems, University of
Michigan-Dearborn School of Management, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2003
Im, Hong G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of
Engineering, February 14, 2000-December 31, 2002
Kelly, Katherine A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, March 1, 2000 -August 31, 2002
Rajan, Gita, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2000
Rengarajan, Vasanthi, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, February 1-April 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ahmed, Asra Z., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine,
Medical School, one year term, January 1, 2000
Anderson, Barbara A., Director, Center for Russian and East European Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-June 30, 2001
Csete, Marie E., Assistant Professor of Cell and Development Biology, Medical School, four year term,
February 18, 2000
Hammer, Gary D., Assistant Professor of Physiology, Medical School, one year term, September 1, 1999
Killeen, Anthony A., from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Pathology, Medical School, one year term, March 1, 2000
Kovach, Julie A., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, March 1, 2000
Mattis, Jacqueline S., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Radev, Dragomir R., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, February 1, 2000-December 31, 2002
Steneck, Margaret L., from Lecturer II in History, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, to Lecturer II in History, Residential
College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


273




April Meeting, 2000


Treloar, David J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Clinical Assistant Professor II of Emergency Medicine to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, one
year term, March 1, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Domino, Edward F., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, one year term, September 1, 1999
Korblum, Sylvan, Professor Emeritus of Psychology in Psychiatry, Medical School, and Professor of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Tien, Tseng-Ying, Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering, College of Engineering, one year term,
March 1, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Brandon, Mark E., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Chhibber, Pradeep K., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Coffey, John T., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Freedman, Eric G., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, University of Michigan-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Khan, Pauline B., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, extended sick leave,
March 22-May 31, 2000
Miller, Douglas E., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, and Associate Professor of German, with
tenure, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,2000
Morag-Levine, Noga, Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, one year term, January 1, 2000
Quint, Leslie E., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, March 20 -July 20, 2000
Shope, Thomas C., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, retirement furlough (phased), one year term, March 1, 2000
Wingrove, Elizabeth R., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Coxford, Arthur F., Jr., Professor of Mathematics Education, with tenure, School of Education,
March 5, 2000
Neel, James V., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, and Lee R. Dice Distinguished University
Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics, Medical School, February 1, 2000
Resigned
Cueto, Rudy A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, March 31, 2000
Lee, Sang W., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, May 31, 2000
Marshall, Kelley W., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, March 17, 2000
Retired
Anderson, William J., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31,
2000
Barna, Maria K., Lecturer II in Music, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000


274




April Meeting, 2000


Bement, Spencer L., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Davidson, Edward S., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Dewoskin, Kenneth J., Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of
Business Administration, December 31, 1999
Hunter, Mary L., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2000
Lindeman, Joyce I., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, and
Lecturer in Education, School of Education, May 31, 2000
Lomax, Ronald J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Potts, Richard A., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2000
Rogers, W. Leslie, Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2000
Wilkes, James O., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2000
CANCELLATION OF TERMINATION
Li, Chen, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
(previously reported as terminated, effective December 31, 1999)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted retirement memoirs for
two faculty members, Kenneth J. DeWoskin and Tsung Yen Na. Regent Newman
commented that she had recently spent time with Professor DeWoskin and that his
retirement would be a loss to the University.
Kenneth J. DeWoskin, Ph.D., professor of Chinese language and literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and professor of business administration, School of
Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor DeWoskin received his B.A. degree from Columbia College in 1965 and
his Ph.D. degree in Chinese literature from Columbia University in 1973. He came to
the University of Michigan in 1973 as a visiting assistant professor in the Department of
Asian Languages and Cultures. He was appointed assistant professor in 1974 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1982 and professor in 1988.
A specialist in the literature and culture of ancient and medieval China, Professor
DeWoskin's research interests and expertise include such diverse areas as Chinese prose
literature, philosophy, aesthetics, music, and science and technology. His scholarship
provides close readings of Chinese texts, with illuminating examples drawn from art,
philosophy, literature, and cultural artifacts informed also by Western literary and
cultural theory.
Professor DeWoskin compiled a distinguished record of service. Within the
University, he has served on the LS&A College Nominating Committee, the Center for
Chinese Studies Executive Committee, the Program in Comparative Literature Executive
Committee, the Society of Fellows Executive Committee, the Institute for the
Humanities Executive Committee, the LS&A Divisional Board for Promotion, and as
chair of the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures (1992-95). On the national
level, Professor DeWoskin served as a board member of the Inter-University Program for
Chinese Language Studies in Taipei; a member of the Association for Asian Studies
Levenson Book Prize Committee; a member of the Grant Selection Committee of the
American Council of Learned Societies; director of the State of Michigan Governor's
Commission on China; executive director of the State of Michigan Governor's China
Project Office; and member of the Steering Committee for the Governor's Task Force on
International Trade.


275




April Meeting, 2000


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Kenneth J. DeWoskin
professor emeritus of Chinese language and literature and professor emeritus of
business administration.
Tsung Yen Na, Ph.D., professor of mechanical engineering in the College of
Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire
from active faculty status on April 30, 2000, after 36 years of dedicated service as a
teacher and scholar.
Professor Na received his B.S. degree from National Taiwan University in 1955, his
M.S. degree from the University of Houston in 1960, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1964. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan-Dearborn as an assistant professor of mechanical engineering in 1964 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1966 and professor in 1969. He held the William E. Stirton
Professorship in Mechanical Engineering from 1984-89.
Professor Na was recognized for his dedication to teaching and for the clarity of his
lectures. A very versatile teacher, he offered a wide range of courses, including
undergraduate courses in turbomachinery, fluid mechanics, and design of thermal
systems and graduate courses in engineering analysis, conduction heat transfer,
convection heat transfer, viscous flow theory, and dynamics and thermodynamics of
compressible flow. He also served the University in a variety of ways, including as a
member of the graduate committee, executive committee, faculty search committees, and
mechanical engineering chair search committee.
Professor Na has achieved a reputation as a world class scholar. His publications
include 3 books (Computational Methods in Engineering Boundary Value Problems,
Academic Press, 1979; Perturbation Methods in Heat Transfer, Hemisphere, 1982; and
Group Invariance in Engineering Boundary Value Problems, Springer-Verlag, 1985)
and over 140 research papers in technical journals.  These works have been
well-received by researchers and practicing engineers alike and have been
widely-recognized and referred to by his peers.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Tsung Yen Na professor
emeritus of mechanical engineering.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted memorial statements for two
faculty members, Arthur F. Coxford, Jr., and Jonathan Raz.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with great sadness the
death on March 5, 2000, of Arthur F. Coxford, Jr., professor of mathematics education.
Born in Holland, Michigan, Professor Coxford received his B.A. degree in
mathematics, summa cum laude, from Albion College in 1959, and his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Michigan in 1960 and 1965, respectively. He taught
mathematics at Lawrence University in Wisconsin from 1960-62 and at University High
School from 1962 until it closed in 1969. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan School of Education in 1965 and was promoted to professor of mathematics
education in 1973.
Professor Coxford was a devoted and much-beloved teacher and mentor and a
valued colleague and a friend. He was known as a scholar's scholar and a person of great
fairness and integrity. He was co-author with his longtime friend and colleague, Joseph
Payne, of several editions of well-known high school mathematics texts published by
Harcourt Brace. As a writer with the Core Plus Mathematics Project and co-author of
the book Geometry, A Transformational Approach, he was at the forefront of innovative
reform efforts to improve the quality of mathematics teaching and learning. He was very


276




April Meeting, 2000


active in preparing teachers of mathematics and hundreds of his students have gone on to
successful teaching careers. At Michigan, he was a strong supporter of undergraduate
teacher education and served as director of the teacher education program. Active in
mathematics and mathematics education organizations at the state and national levels,
Professor Coxford was recognized for his leadership qualities. He was president of the
Michigan Council of Teachers of Mathematics and served on many MCTM and
Michigan Department of Education committees. At the national level, his work with the
National Council of Teachers of Mathematics included service as chair of the
publications committee, author and editor of the yearbooks, journal reviewer, and other
committees. He was also president of the national organization, School Science and
Mathematics Association.
We join Professor Coxford's wife, Diane, and two daughters, Anne McIntosh and
Cynthia Tyner, their spouses and children, in mourning the loss of our dear colleague. He
was a beautiful person and a wonderful colleague and friend, and will be sorely missed.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with great sadness the loss
of Jonathan Raz, Ph.D., associate professor of biostatistics, who passed away unexpectedly
on February 23, 2000, from complications of a systemic bacterial infection.
Professor Raz received his B.S. degree in statistics and his Ph.D. degree in biostatistics
from the University of California at Berkeley and joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan as an assistant professor in 1991. He was promoted to associate professor with
tenure in 1995. Professor Raz left Michigan in 1999 to assume a faculty position at the
University of Pennsylvania, but retained an appointment without salary at Michigan and
continued to supervise doctoral students and collaborate with colleagues here.
Professor Raz was internationally renowned for his innovative research on
statistical methods for the analysis of repeated-measures data, biomedical signals and
images. His research papers appeared in the top scholarly journals in statistics and
electrical engineering and were widely cited for their depth and rigor. His research was
very interdisciplinary in nature and attracted external research funding from NSF and
NIH. Professor Raz was a dedicated teacher and a very clear expositor of complex ideas.
He was rigorous in his demands on students but also very sympathetic to their needs and
interested in their welfare. He introduced a number of courses to the biostatistics
graduate program on time series and repeated measures analysis, which added important
dimensions to the teaching program. Because of his strong leadership and innovations as
chair of the Ph.D. Candidacy Committee in Biostatistics, the department is henceforth
naming the award for outstanding student performance on the Ph.D. qualifying exam the
Jonathan Raz Award.
Professor Raz loved to debate the issues of the day in statistics with his colleagues
and students. He was an enthusiastic, energetic person with wide-ranging interests.
Besides his work in statistics, he also wrote science fiction and poetry and enjoyed
astronomy, art, and classical music. He was also a devoted family man who loved to
spend time with his beloved wife Jennifer and make up bedtime stories for his two
delightful daughters, Amelie and Abigail. He will be sorely missed by his many friends
at Michigan and throughout the statistical community.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval the doctoral degree list for the
April 2000 commencement, the final degree list for the December 1999 Law School
commencement, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.


277




April Meeting, 2000


Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby introduced Professor Kensall D. Wise, director of the Center
for Integrated Microsystems, associate dean for research, and the J. Reid and Polly
Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology, College of Engineering, who
discussed his research in MEMS (microelectrical mechanical systems).
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Gary Glenn, president of the American Family Association of Michigan, on
the English 317 course, "How to be Gay;" Gary S. Hann, alumnus, on discrimination;
Stephen L. Rassi, student and member of the Rainbow Network and GAA, on equality
and safety for all at the University of Michigan; Joe Reilly, student and member of the
Native American Student Association, on racism at the University; Irfan Nooruddin,
student, on Michigamua; Audrey L. Jackson, alumnus, on Michigamua; and Lester
Spence, student and member of Concerned Students, on the vice president for student
affairs.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:12 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for May 18-19, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


278




April Meeting, 2000


APRIL MEETING, 2000
APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING
THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF COMMERCIAL PAPER NOTES, SERIES C, AND
PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional
body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as
amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the "University") and the control
and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and desirable to provide for the temporary
financing of capital projects of the University currently under way or to be undertaken within the next
succeeding eighteen months, through the issuance of Regents of the University of Michigan Commercial
Paper Notes, Series C (the "Notes"), in principal amount outstanding from time to time not to exceed
$170,000,000; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and appropriate to refund through the
issuance of Notes the outstanding balance of the Issuer's Commercial Paper Notes, Series B (the "Prior
Notes"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has approved certain capital projects to be temporarily financed in whole
or in part through the issuance of the Notes, and may approve additional projects to be so financed in the
next eighteen months (all such projects, together with the projects financed or refinanced with the
proceeds of the Prior Notes being herein called the "Projects"); and
WHEREAS, in order to provide for the issuance of the Notes, it will be necessary for one or more
of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Associate Vice President for Finance, or
the Associate Vice President and Treasurer (each an "Authorized Officer") to execute and deliver a
Commercial Paper Issuance Certificate (the "Issuance Certificate"), a Commercial Paper Issuing and
Paying Agent Agreement (the "Paying Agent Agreement") with a bank to be selected by an Authorized
Officer, one or more Dealer Agreements (each a "Dealer Agreement") with a dealer or dealers
(collectively, the "Dealer") to be designated by an Authorized Officer, and, if deemed appropriate by an
Authorized Officer, an agreement or agreements relating to a liquidity facility; and
WHEREAS, the Notes are to be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer, payable from
and secured by a pledge of General Revenues (as defined in the Issuance Certificate) and to be
additionally payable from Available Investments (as defined in the Issuance Certificate); and
WHEREAS, The Issuer has previously issued certain series of bonds or notes (the "Senior Lien
Indebtedness") secured by and payable from Student Fees or other revenue streams (other than Hospital
Gross Revenues and Medical Service Plan Revenues) which comprise a portion of General Revenues,
and it is intended that each series of the Senior Lien Indebtedness remain outstanding and continue to be
secured, until paid or defeased, by its respective revenue stream on a senior lien basis to the Notes and
other General Revenue indebtedness subsequently issued, but that no new Senior Lien Indebtedness is to
be issued; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Issuer to delegate to each of the Authorized Officers the power
to designate certain Authorized Representatives and Authorized Persons (each as defined in the Issuance
Certificate or Paying Agent Agreement) to undertake certain actions with respect to the issuance of
Notes; and
WHEREAS, the Notes authorized hereby are to finally mature on or before the date three years
after the date of issuance of the first Notes hereunder, and are intended to be replaced by permanent
General Revenue financing on or prior to such date; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control and direct
expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize
the issuance of the Notes to provide funds to temporarily finance and refinance all or part of the costs of
the Projects, and to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Notes, it is necessary for the Issuer to authorize an
Authorized Officer to prepare, execute and deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, an Offering Memorandum (as
supplemented from time to time, the "Offering Memorandum") to be circulated and used in connection
279




April Meeting, 2000


with the marketing, sale and delivery of the Notes, and to take, together with other appropriate officers,
agents and representatives of the Issuer or the University, additional actions necessary to accomplish the
sale and delivery of the Notes, the administration of the commercial paper program of which the Notes
are a part, and the purposes hereof, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the financing and refinancing of the Projects will serve proper and appropriate public
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for supervision of the
University, and control and expenditures from the University funds, to authorize and acquire the Projects,
to finance and refinance by the issuance of the Notes the costs of the Projects and the costs related to the
issuance of the Notes, and to pledge the General Revenues of the University for payment of the Notes
and to covenant to pay the Notes from Available Investments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan, as
follows:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Notes of the Issuer, in
multiple issuances on various dates, to be designated REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
COMMERCIAL PAPER NOTES, SERIES C, in the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time
to time as shall be designated by any two Authorized Officers, but not in excess of $170,000,000, to be
dated as of a date of issuance of each Note, or otherwise as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer,
for the purpose of financing and refinancing all or part of the Projects (including refunding the Prior
Notes), and to pay all or part of the costs incidental to the issuance of the Notes. The Projects as a whole
are hereby determined by the Issuer to constitute a single governmental purpose of the Issuer. The Notes
shall not be subject to redemption prior to maturity. Each Note shall mature not later than 270 days after
its date of issuance, as shall be determined as provided in the Issuance Certificate and Paying Agent
Agreement, and all Notes must mature on or before the date three years after the date of issuance of the
first Notes hereunder. Interest on each Note shall be payable on the maturity date thereof, at the rate, not
in excess of 12% per annum, to be determined as specified in the Issuance Certificate and Paying Agent
Agreement. The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, or registered to bearer, in the
denominations, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as
shall be provided in the Issuance Certificate. The Notes shall be sold at par through the Dealer selected
by an Authorized Officer, as provided in the Dealer Agreement.
2. The Notes shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from and equally
and ratably secured by a lien on General Revenues, subject only to the senior liens on portions of General
Revenues securing the respective series of Senior Lien Indebtedness (until each respective series of such
Senior Lien Indebtedness is paid or defeased in accordance with its terms), and moneys from time to time
on deposit in the Note Payment Fund created pursuant to the Issuance Certificate, as provided therein.
The Notes shall also be payable from Available Investments, as provided in the Issuance Certificate. The
Issuer shall covenant in the Issuance Certificate that so long as any of the Notes remain outstanding, the
Issuer will not issue any new series of Senior Lien Indebtedness.
In support of its obligation to repay the Notes, the Issuer may, if deemed appropriate by an
Authorized Officer, enter into a letter of credit, line of credit, note purchase agreement or other liquidity
facility (the "Liquidity Agreement"). Any reimbursement obligation (including interest) for draws under
the Liquidity Facility shall be a limited and not general obligation of the Issuer, payable from General
Revenues, and may be secured by a pledge of General Revenues. The Authorized Officers are, or any
one of them is, authorized to negotiate, execute and deliver, for and on behalf of the Issuer, such
agreement or agreements (the "Liquidity Agreement") as an Authorized Officer may deem appropriate to
acquire the Liquidity Facility and to provide for the repayment of draws thereunder, as provided herein.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest on the Notes, or
under the Liquidity Agreement, or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, or, except as
provided in the Issuance Certificate and the Liquidity Agreement, the Issuer, or against any officer or
agent of the Issuer or of the University, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Notes
and interest with respect thereto nor the obligations under the Liquidity Agreement, become a lien on or
be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or the
University, other than the General Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in the Note
Payment Fund created by the Issuance Certificate.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from and
secured by General Revenues on a parity basis with the Notes as to the lien on General Revenues, but
subject to the prior liens on portions thereof securing Senior Lien Indebtedness.
4. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized and directed to select a
bank to be Issuing and Paying Agent, and one or more Dealers, and any two of the Authorized Officers
are authorized and directed, in the name of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate,


280




April Meeting, 2000


execute and deliver the Issuance Certificate, the Paying Agent Agreement and one or more Dealer
Agreements, substantially in the form previously filed with the Secretary of the Issuer, but with such
changes, not inconsistent with the terms of this Resolution, as the Authorized Officers executing the same
shall approve, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the respective
documents.
5. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized and directed to designate
employees or agents of the University to act as Authorized Representatives with respect to the issuance
of Notes, and to designate Authorized Persons, who may be employees or agents of the University or
employees or agents of the Dealer, to take certain actions with respect to the issuance of Notes, all as
provided in the Issuance Certificate, the Paying Agent Agreement, or the Dealer Agreement.
6. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed,
in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Notes by manual
or facsimile signature and to deliver the Notes to the purchaser in exchange for the purchase price
thereof, as provided in the Issuance Certificate and the Paying Agent Agreement. The Notes may be
issued in the form of one or more Master Notes, as provided in the Paying Agent Agreement.
7. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to cause to be prepared
and circulated the Offering Memorandum with respect to the Notes, and to update, or cause to be updated
the Offering Memorandum, through supplements or otherwise, as an Authorized Officer shall deem
appropriate, or as may be required by law. Any Dealer is authorized to circulate and use, in accordance
with applicable law, the Offering Memorandum, as the same may have been updated or supplemented
from time to time, in the offering, sale and delivery of the Notes.
8. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to provide for the final
payment of the Prior Notes, and to take any and all actions necessary and appropriate to provide for the
payment when due of all amounts with respect to the Prior Notes, from the proceeds of the Notes or other
available funds of the University.
9. The Authorized Officers, the Secretary, representatives of the University's General Counsel,
and any other appropriate officer of the University are each hereby authorized to perform all acts and
deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the
University required by this Resolution or the documents authorized hereby, or necessary, expedient and
proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes, from time to time, all as
contemplated hereby or in connection with subsequent elections, approvals or determinations under the
Issuance Certificate or other documents. Any reference to any specified officer of the Issuer or the
University in this Resolution shall include any interim officer occupying such position.
10. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be
and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


281




MAY MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 18, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Music Room at the Henry Ford
Estate-Fairlane on the campus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
Deitch. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Chancellor Klein, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President
Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regents Taylor and White were absent.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger commented on a number of recent accomplishments of faculty
members, including news that Provost Cantor and Professor Donald Lopez, Jr., had
been chosen as fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He also noted
that the Michigan softball and women's rowing teams had each won Big Ten
Conference championships.
Chancellor of University of Michigan-Dearborn
President Bollinger announced that Daniel Little was being recommended for
approval as chancellor of the University of Michigan-Dearborn and introduced Dr.
Little to the assembly. He noted that the search committee had been tireless in its
efforts to find the best possible candidates and thanked the committee for its efforts. He
observed that Dr. Little was a distinguished scholar and administrator and welcomed
him to the campus. A round of applause followed.
Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby observed that this month's presentation would highlight
undergraduate research in the natural sciences at University of Michigan-Dearborn. He
introduced John Thomas, associate professor of biology at UM-Dearborn, and Nicholas
Urbanczyk, a senior majoring in biological sciences.  Professor Thomas gave a
presentation about undergraduate involvement in research in the environmental sciences
on the Dearborn campus and Mr. Urbanczyk described a research project he had
conducted under the direction of Professor Thomas on the molecular genetics of plants
under environmental stress.
Vice President for Communications
President Bollinger introduced Lisa Rudgers, vice president for communications,
and welcomed her to the University.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the April 2000 meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment and Plant Extension.


283




May Meeting, 2000


Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established for April, 2000.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Hideki Tsutsumi, president of MSA,
reported on projects underway during the summer months. These include a voter
registration drive and creation of a website listing required textbooks that would be
completed before classes start so that students can save money by purchasing books
online. He introduced Siafa Hage, treasurer of MSA. Mr. Hage reviewed activities
planned for the next academic year, which include continuing with the voter registration
drive; increasing lobbying efforts in Lansing and Washington; making student
organizations aware of funding available from sources other than MSA; and continuing
to work on the club sports initiative. He concluded that MSA also plans to continue to
foster a positive relationship with the administration. President Bollinger responded
that he is looking forward to working with MSA.
Communications to the Board. President Bollinger submitted a memorandum
from the Arthur Miller Theatre Advisory Committee in support of the proposed
Walgreen Drama Center and the Arthur Miller Theatre. He noted that Charles and Jean
Walgreen have been tremendous friends of the University in many different areas.
They have given $11.3 million towards this project, and a bequest of $5 million from
another source will also be designated for it, bringing total gifts to $16.3 of the
approximate $18 million total project cost.
President Bollinger observed that Arthur Miller, one of the greatest playwrights of
our time, is devoted to the University of Michigan and is greatly in favor of a theatre
being named in his honor. He distributed copies of a handwritten postcard from Mr.
Miller expressing that "The theatre is a lovely idea. I've resisted similar proposals from
others but it seems right from Ann Arbor." President Bollinger noted that this "is a
linkage between the University and a great, great figure of our time that we do not want
to let pass by."
President Bollinger observed that there is currently more demand for theatre space
than there is supply at the University, and this demand will not be met even once the
Arthur Miller Theatre has been completed. The idea is to create a complex of theatres,
including the Power Center at 1400 seats, the Arthur Miller Theatre at 600-800 seats,
and an experimental theatre at 100 seats, along with facilities that would provide other
forums for education and research. President Bollinger observed that the plan for the
theatre complex and the programming for the various theatres, including co-productions
with other regional theatres, was developed with assistance of Professor Emeritus John
Russel Brown, a renowned authority in this area. He also noted that the University
Musical Society has recently begun to integrate its offerings with the educational
activities of the University, and that next year for the first time in many years it will be
developing a theatre program. The signature event of this program will involve the
Royal Shakespeare Company, which will be in residence in March and will stage three
of Shakespeare's historical plays in addition to holding classes and workshops. He
observed that the potential of the Arthur Miller Theatre was important to the Royal
Shakespeare Company's decision to develop a long-term relationship with the
University.


284




May Meeting, 2000


President Bollinger called attention to the memorandum from the faculty advisory
committee endorsing the Arthur Miller Theatre and the theatre complex. He noted that
building the University's reputation in the area of cultural activities is as important as
creating venues in the various schools and colleges that are meant to draw visitors from
across the world to the campus.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
reported on a number of activities and events underway in the Health System.
Student Affairs. There was no report from the Office of the Vice President for
Student Affairs.
University   of Michigan-Dearborn.        President Bollinger thanked     Interim
Chancellor Klein for his service as interim chancellor. A round of applause followed.
Interim Chancellor Klein said that he has enjoyed serving the University in this
capacity. He observed that the Dearborn campus includes over 70 acres of natural area,
including a portion of the Rouge River, and that a conference on the Rouge River was
being held on campus.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas thanked Chancellor Klein for
mentoring him since he has come to campus.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report of Voluntary
Support for April 2000.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and for employee
m atching  gifts............................................................  $   18,050
Mrs. Gardner Ackley, Ann Arbor
for the H. Gardner Ackley Endowment and other support of the University Musical Society.... 50,000
Ajinomoto Company, Inc., Kawasaki, Japan
for research  in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 9,990
Susan D. Alberts, Evanston, Illinois
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................... 10,000
Alcan Rolled Products Company, Oswego, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  11,650
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  15,944
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 25,000
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  8,350
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 53,750
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 5,000
George E. Anderson, Franklin
for the Class of 1931 Engineers Scholarship in the College of Engineering.............. 14,246
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 8,500
Aventis Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 5,000
Elizabeth Bachman Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 301,869
Robert M. Barton, Newport Beach, California
100 shares of Baxter International common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  6,225
Karl G. Bartscht, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Superior Consultant Holdings Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and for the University Musical Society....... 6,243


285




May Meeting, 2000


Bell & Howell Information and Learning, Ann Arbor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 9,000
Roland Berger & Partner, LLC, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 7,500
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 5,000
Patricia Beurket Estate
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 19,968
Linda A. and Alwina M. Bickel Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 83,000
Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Inc., Parsippany, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
300 shares of Mead Corporation common stock
for the Dr. George H. Boyce Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the George H. Boyce Fund............................................. 8,766
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration.............................. 50,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............................................. 25,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,047
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the C. James Pilcher Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............ 5,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 57,750
Marcia L. Carris, Denver, Colorado
for the Alumni Society Board of Governor's Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration..............................................................  5,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in the School of Public Policy......................................  100,000
Kathleen G. Charla, Bloomfield Hills
170 shares of CBS Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 9,705
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for the Magna International Office of Entrepreneurial Studies Fund in the School of
Business A dm inistration...................................................... 50,000
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Flint Banker's Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 7,000
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support at the University  of M ichigan........................................  10,000
Eloise B. Cohen Trust
for the Wilbur J. Cohen Memorial Fund in the School of Education.................... 10,000
Rhea A. Coleman Estate
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Michigan League........ 10,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for the Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts...... 7,345
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for support in the School of Public Health........................................ 34,895
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of
Business Administration, and for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......... 11,000
Consumers Energy, Jackson
for research in the College of Engineering, for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts................. 11,585
Katherine Q. Cox, Flint
for the Women's Glee Club in the School of Music.................................. 5,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Larry R. Dalton, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
10 shares of Southeast Telephone Company of Wisconsin common stock
for the Alumni Scholarship in the Law  School...................................... 9,527
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for the John Deere Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering............... 15,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support and the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship in the Department
of  A thletics................................................................  20,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Benjamin D. and Ann Jaffe Memorial Scholarship in the Law School............ 30,000


286




May Meeting, 2000


Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Environmental Interpretive Center at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 25,000
Esperion Therapeutics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 10,000
Exxon Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 8,375
Robert W. Felton, Berkeley, California
6,250 shares of Indus International, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 48,926
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support at the University of Michigan........................................ 14,500
Kathleen K. Fischer Trust
for the Carl H. Fischer Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................  250,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration, for research in the Colleges
of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for research in the School
of Engineering and the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of MichiganDearborn................................................................ 168,830
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 28,000
Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 20,000
Foundation for Modem Greek Studies, Dearborn
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 250,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Robert K. Shaye Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 155,000
Ruth T. Freeman Trust
for the Ruth T. Freeman Endowment for Cancer Research in the Medical School........ 945,000
Kirk A. Frey, Ann Arbor
for the Michael S. Aldrich Endowment in the Medical School......................... 5,000
Marjorie E. Gardner Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 31,676
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration, and for the Robert H. Lurie
Engineering Center, the Minority Engineering Program and the General Motors
Foundation Computer Aided Engineering Network Fund in the College of Engineering...... 436,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in  the  School of M usic..............................................  13,000
Global One, Inc., Ann Arbor
for  W U O M.................................................................  8,658
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 20,000
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the  University  Library...................................................... 7,200
Guidant Corporation-Cardiology Pacemakers, St. Paul, Minnesota
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 250,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 20,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Fund of the Community Foundation for Palm Beach and
Marin Cities, West Palm Beach, Florida
for support at the University  of M ichigan........................................  12,500
Jolene C. Hermalin, Ann Arbor
for the Albert Hermalin Scholars Fund in the Institute for Social Research............... 5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the Harlan and Anne Hatcher Library Endowment in the University Library......... 100,000
Mary Jo C. Hewitt Trust
for the Janet and Cynthia Hewitt Scholarship for Women, University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 5,000
Gerald P. Hodge, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 6,153
Robert D. Holbrook Trust
for the Robert D. Holbrook Scholarship in the College of Engineering................. 175,333
Honda Research of America, Torrance, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 15,000
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Romulus
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 22,000
Marjorie M. Jackson Trust
for the  M useum   of A rt........................................................  5,000


287




May Meeting, 2000


Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Policy....................................... 39,883
Phil F. Jenkins, Naples, Florida
for the Phil F. Jenkins Complementary and Alternative Medicine Endowment in the
M edical School.........................................................  1,500,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Skillman, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................... 18,760
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................... 7,357
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
500 shares of XL Capital, Ltd., common stock and
673 units of Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund mutual fund
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship and the Alumni Society Board
of Governor's Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.................. 48,844
Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., Detroit
for the Albert Kahn Associates Fellowship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning................................................ 8,750
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for merit scholarships in the Law School......................................... 10,000
A. T. Kearney, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Information and for the Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 309,050
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals............................ 14,398
KLS Martin, L.P., Jacksonville, Florida
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry........................... 5,000
Kresge Foundation, Troy
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........ 300,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 25,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the School of Education......................................... 303,000
Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the School of Nursing............................................ 68,800
Brian C. Manoogian, Bloomfield Hills
1,500 shares of Mascotech, Inc., common stock
for the Communication Disorders Center in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute........ 19,313
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the School of Nursing............................................. 5,000
Marsal Family Foundation, Rye, New York
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 20,000
Annabel McWilliams, Ann Arbor
for the Beth McWilliams Scholarship in the School of Information..................... 5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education and for scholarships and fellowships in the
Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies.................................. 825,000
Metropolitan Life Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,950
Edward A. Michael, Vero Beach, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the University Library....... 10,250
Michelin North America, Inc., Greenville, South Carolina
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Theodosia W. Milkton Estate
for the Howard and Cora Wiest Scholarship in the Law School...................... 216,604
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000
Mitsubishi Motors America, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 20,000


288




May Meeting, 2000


Molecular Biosystems, Inc., San Diego, California
for support in the Medical School...............................................  7,000
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for the Monroe Street Journal Scholarship in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
Vincent Moore, La Mesa, California
700 shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock
for the Paul C. Boylan Professorship in the School of Music........................ 15,203
Alberta Muirhead Trust
for the CASL Honors Program and the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn..........................................  10,335
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 30,000
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering..................... 6,000
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, Colorado
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 7,500
Network Appliance, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for support in the Information Technology Division............................... 50,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 5,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  6,400
Oral Health America, Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  5,625
Bronie S. Oren Trust
for the Hymen Oren Memorial Fund in the Medical School........................ 1,852,566
Russell J. Osterman, La Quinta, California
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.......................... 5,000
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for English Language and Literature Support in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................. 5,000
Albert B. Perlin, Jr., Captiva, Florida
150 shares of Target Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School.................................................  11,391
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  13,840
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  11,025
Praxair, Inc., Pinckney
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,200
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 287,500
Richard H. Rogel, Avon, Colorado
for the Paul C. Boylan Professorship in the School of Music.......................... 5,000
Philip E. Rollhaus, Chicago, Illinois
2,000 shares of Quixote Corporation common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 23,938
Rooney Family LLC, Ann Arbor
for  W U O M................................................................  12,753
Harold Rosenn, Palm Desert, California
220 shares of M &T Corporation common stock
for the Harold and Sallyanne F. Rosenn Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Harold and Sallyanne F. Rosenn Scholarship in the Law School....... 100,313
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute....... 5,500
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the School of Public Policy.......................................  15,346
San Diego Foundation, San Diego, California
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 218,000
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............ 40,000
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 30,000
Schreiber Foundation for Cancer Research, Holland
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 6,000
William D. Schwalbe, Clarkston
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 9,000


289




May Meeting, 2000


Frank L. Schwartz Trust
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 15,000
Jack M. Schwartz, Scarsdale, New York
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for minority scholarship support................................................ 10,000
Gerda Seligson, Ann Arbor
for Classical Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 5,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for other support at
the University of Michigan.................................................. 315,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sloan Research Fellows Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 17,500
Smith & Nephew, Inc., Largo, Florida
for the Smith & Nephew Educational Gift Fund in the Medical School................ 17,750
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Faculty Award Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies..................................................  50,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education......................................... 100,000
State Farm Companies Foundation, Bloomington, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,335
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,975
John M. Stevens, Largo, Florida
576 shares of Payless Shoesource, Inc., common stock
for the John and Ellen M. Stevens Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the John and Ellen M. Stevens Endowment........................ 28,224
Stephen G. Stevens-Prokopoff, Sacramento, California
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  5,000
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School.............. 13,000
Summit Foundation, Washington, DC
637 shares of AES Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Public Health........................................ 46,561
TCF Bank, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Lydia Terrill Trust
for the Lydia Terrill Trauma Burn Fund in the Medical School........................ 60,000
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 11,300
Texas Instruments Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,350
J. Walter Thompson USA, Detroit
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop Fund in the School of Art and Design...... 10,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,225
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 15,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 25,000
Unisys Corporation, Plymouth
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund, College of Engineering...... 5,000
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for support in the College of Engineering........... 20,500
United Way of Muskegon County, Muskegon
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 30,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  10,100
Visteon, Dearborn
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 5,000
Michael A. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Florence S. Wagner, Ann Arbor
275 shares of Exxon-Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Warren H. Wagner Herbarium Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  20,677


290




May Meeting, 2000


Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
175,500 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the President's Discretionary Fund........................................ 4,979,813
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............................................. 16,600
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts................... 40,181
Paul Weinstein, Princeton, New Jersey
for the A. L. Weinstein Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint............... 10,000
Ross L. Weinstein, Oakland
for the A. L. Weinstein Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint............... 10,000
Charles D. Weir, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  10,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 33,500
Brenda S. Wickett Trust
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship and the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department
of Athletics................................................................ 5,500
Joan D. Willson, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
470 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Robert J. Willson Professorship and other support in the Medical School.......... 46,485
Windward Management Company, Southfield
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  25,000
Winslow Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 20,000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund and other support for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Education.............................................. 26,000
Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the Medical School, for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic
Benefit Fund and for the Women's Health Community Outreach Program in the
U niversity  H ospitals.........................................................  14,699
The following non monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer, Inc., Austin, Texas
computer equipment and software for the Media Union Mac Training Room
Baxter, Round Lake, Illinois
a rapid prototyping machine for the School of Art and Design
Best Power, Necedah, Wisconsin
two UPS power systems for the Solar Car Team
John A. Clark, Ann Arbor
journals for the College of Engineering
Elizabeth B. Dexter, Ann Arbor
personal piano library of the late Professor Benning Dexter for the School of Music
Timothy L. Dickinson, Washington, DC
a sculpture for the Museum of Art
Toshiyo Maeda, Toyko, Japan
musical materials for the School of Music Steams Collection
Chris Mansky, Bingham Farms
a Nineteenth century antique dental chair for the Sindecuse Museum
Northwest Airlines, Detroit
air travel for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Think, Santa Clara, California
3-D design software for the School of Art and Design
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Americna Allsafe, Tonawanda, New York     Robert G. Kelly, Plymouth
Anderson    Power    Products,  Sterling,  Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Massachusetts                       Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield           Elaine Liberstein Pitt, Ann Arbor
Harlan H. Bloomer, Madison Lake, Minnesota  Loretta Posson, Ann Arbor
Stephen C. Brown, Oak Brook, Illinois    Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, New Jersey
Hubert I. Cohen, Ann Arbor                Russell C. Youngdahl, Jackson


291




May Meeting, 2000


Annual Recommendations for Promotion to the Ranks of Professor and
Associate Professor. Provost Cantor observed that she and others who had reviewed
the promotions were "breathless" about the quality of the faculty. She noted that "the
integration of scholarship and teaching on our campus is alive and well and is
enormously impressive." Noting that she is "completely convinced that the best
scholars make the best teachers," she described four faculty who exemplified the
integration of scholarship and teaching among this year's promotion recommendations:
Frieda Ekotto, assistant professor of French (being recommended for associate
professor with tenure); Paul Resnick, associate professor of information (being
recommended for the granting of tenure); Edward W. Sarath, associate professor of
music (jazz and improvisation studies) with tenure (being recommended for promotion
to professor); and Ann Marie Sastry, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and
applied mechanics (being recommended for promotion to associate professor of
mechanical engineering and applied mechanics with tenure).
Executive Vice President Omenn highlighted the achievements of four faculty
being recommended for promotion: Eva Feldman, associate professor of neurology
with tenure (being recommended for promotion to professor); Sally Ann Camper,
associate professor of human genetics with tenure (being recommended for promotion
to professor); Douglas Quint, associate professor of radiology with tenure (being
recommended for promotion to professor); and J. Stuart Wolf, Jr., assistant professor of
surgery (being recommended for promotion to associate professor with tenure).
President Bollinger commented that review and evaluation for tenure is "the most
important thing we do throughout the year." He described the process and the amount
of effort expended on tenure review.
Interim Chancellor Klein presented six promotion and tenure recommendations for
the Dearborn campus. He highlighted the accomplishments of Professor Barbara Klein,
assistant professor of management information systems (being recommended for
promotion to associate professor with tenure).
Chancellor Mestas presented eight faculty members for promotion and tenure on
the Flint campus, noting the large role that teaching plays in their academic work and
that the quality of faculty publications is on a par with the Ann Arbor campus.
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of other personnel actions.
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF
PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 2000
School of Art and Design
Jacobsen, Carol S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and
Design, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Business Administration
Anderson, Eugene W., from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Indjejikian, Raffi J., from Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Krishna, Aradhna J., from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Lafontaine, Francine, from Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, to Professor with
tenure
Narayanan, M. P., from Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Oswald, Lynda J., from Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, to Professor with tenure


292




May Meeting, 2000


Ramaswamy, Venkatram, from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Terrell, Katherine, from Associate Professor of Business Economics, Corporate Strategy, and International
Business, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
School of Dentistry
Franceschi, Renny T., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Taylor, George W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
College of Engineering
Drake, R. Paul, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, awarded tenure
Durfee, Edmund H., from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure, College of Engineering, and from Associate Professor of Information,
without tenure, to Professor, without tenure, School of Information
Dutta, Debasish, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, to
Professor with tenure
Fessler, Jeffrey A., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, awarded tenure
Freudenberg, James, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
to Professor with tenure
Grosh, Karl, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure
Kanicki, Jerzy, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, awarded tenure
Kota, Sridhar, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
to Professor with tenure
Kuo, Arthur D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure
Powell, Kenneth G., from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Sastry, Ann Marie, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure
Schultz, William W., from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, to Professor with tenure
Shi, Jianjun, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial Operations and Engineering,
with tenure
Thompson, Levi T., from Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
Thouless, Michael, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, to Professor with tenure, and from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering,
without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Waas, Anthony M., from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to Professor with tenure
School of Information
Hedstrom, Margaret L., Associate Professor of Information, awarded tenure
Resnick, Paul, Associate Professor of Information, awarded tenure
Law School
Clark, Sherman, from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Amidei, Dante, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Biro, Matthew, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure,
Department of History of Art, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History of Art,
with tenure, Residential College
Brandon, Mark E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Brusati, Celeste A., from Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure,
and from Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Clark, Steven E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
Cornish, Alison, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Italian, with tenure
Denver, Robert, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
Ekotto, Frieda, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French, with tenure
Faraway, Julian, from Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Fredrickson, Barbara L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure
Freese, Katherine, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Heinonen, Juha, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure


293




May Meeting, 2000


Holmes, Warren G., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Howard, June, from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, American Culture, and
Women's studies, with tenure, to Professor of English Language and Literature, American Culture,
and Women's Studies, with tenure
Hunt, Nancy R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics
and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical School
Huth, Paul K., from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Kriz, Igor, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Lorenzon, Wolfgang, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Marsh, E. Neil G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Megginson, Robert E., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Mindell, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, and from
assistant curator to associate curator, museum of zoology
Orr, Bradford, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Porter, Brian, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Smock, Pamela, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Sneyd, A. James R., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Spector, Scott, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Stixrude, Lars P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure
Wingrove, Elizabeth R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure
Medical School
Adler, Dorit D., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Albin, Roger L., from Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Alessi, Norman E., from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Barks, John D. E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Blackwood, R. Alexander, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Camper, Sally Ann, from Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Chernew, Michael E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Christensen, Paul J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Cooney, Kathleen A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Dalack, Gregory W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Dressler, Gregory R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure
Feldman, Eva L., from Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Franzblau, Alfred, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Goldman, Daniel J., from Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Goulet, James A., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Gruppen, Larry D., from Associate Professor of Medical Education, without tenure, to Professor, without
tenure
Guan, Kun-Liang, from Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Haig, Andrew J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Helvie, Mark A., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Herman, William H., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure, Medical School, and from Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, to Professor,
without tenure, School of Public Health
Hofer, Timothy P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Junck, Larry R., from Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Kerppola, Tom K. W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Lloyd, Thomas R., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Malviya, Shobha V., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure
Margolis, Benjamin L., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure,
and from Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Messana, Joseph M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Mosca, Lori J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Petty, Elizabeth M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure


294




May Meeting, 2000


Quint, Douglas J., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Rehemtulla, Alnawaz, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with
tenure
Sampselle, Carolyn M., from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, to
Professor, without tenure, Medical School, and from Associate Professor of Women's Studies,
without tenure, to Professor, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Silk, Kenneth R., from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Smoyer, William E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Sowers, MaryFran R., from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, to Professor,
without tenure
Standiford, Theodore J., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Swaroop, Anand, from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Taheri, Paul A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Todisco, Andrea, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Vazquez, Delia M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and communicable
Diseases, with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without
tenure
Wang, Stewart C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Wolf, J. Stuart, Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure Medical
School
School of Music
Borders, James M., from Associate Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Cardullo, Robert J., from Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Korsyn, Kevin E., from Associate Professor of Music (Music Theory) awarded tenure
Lam, Joseph S. C., from Associate Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Nel, Anton, from Associate Professor of Music (Piano) with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Sarath, Edward W., from Associate Professor of Music (Jazz and Improvisation Studies), with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Sheng, Bright, from Associate Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Simoni, Mary H., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Music Technology), with
tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Zak, Donald R., from Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Nursing
Boyd, Carol J., from Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure, School of
Nursing, and from Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, to Professor, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cimprich, Bernadine E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Pierce, Penny F., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Pohl, Joanne M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Scisney-Matlock, Margaret, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Johnson, Cary E., from Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Public Health
Hirth, Richard A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy,
with tenure
Philbert, Martin A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Toxicology, with tenure
Smith, Dean G., from Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
School of Social Work
Astor, Ron A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Mowbray, Carol T., from Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Wallace, John M., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Felifu, Fernando, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure
295




May Meeting, 2000


Lunn, Joe H., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Wider, Kathleen, from Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science
Ratts, Eric B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management
Klein, Barbara D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Management Information Systems,
with tenure
Lee, Hei-Wai, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure
University of Michigan-Flint College ofArts and Sciences
Friesen, Lauren D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure
Gano-Phillips, Susan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Kaufman, Martin M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Earth and Resource Science,
with tenure
Lawand, Jamile T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure
Rahme, Joseph G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Robertson, Theodosia S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
University of Michigan-Flint School of Management
Angur, Madhukar G., from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
University of Michigan-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Barnfather, Janet S., Associate Professor of Nursing, awarded tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Fishman, Robert, Ph.D., Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, July 1, 2000
Haan, Mary N., Dr.Ph., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health
Villarruel, Antonia, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Campbell, William M., M.Mus., Associate Professor of Music (Trumpet), School of Music
Gorla, Narasimhaiah, Professor of Management Information Systems, University of Michigan-Flint
School of Management
Keep, Richard F., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physiology, Medical School, June 1, 2000
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 15, 2000-July 10, 2001
Lucier, Christopher H., Chair, Army Officer Education Program, Office of the Provost
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 2000
Halloran, John W., Interim Chair, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering


296




May Meeting, 2000


LEAVE OF ABSENCES FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, Medical School, public service leave extended, one year term, May 1, 2000
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, Medical School, public service leave extended, one year term, April 4, 2000
Kravaris, Costas, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, personal leave
extended, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Nabel, Elizabeth G., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, Medical School, public service leave extended, one year term, September 1, 2000
Nabel, Gary J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological Chemistry,
without tenure, and Henry Sewall Professor of Medicine, Medical School, public service leave
extended, one year term, April 1, 2000
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Irwin I. Cohn Professorship in Law, Law School, five year renewable term, May 1, 2000
George E. Wantz, M.D., Professorship in the History of Medicine, Medical School, five year renewable
terms, July 1, 2000
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorship
Fujita, Takanori, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, September 1, 2000
Xie, Yu, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term,
September 1, 1999
Yamaguchi, Susumu, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, four month term, September 1, 2000
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Amidon, Gordon L., Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, five year term,
July 1, 2000
Fantone, Joseph C., III, Godfrey D. Stobbe Professor of Pathology Education, Medical School, five year
term, July 1, 2000
Fearon, Eric R., Emanuel N. Maisel Professor of Oncology, Medical School, five year term, July 1, 2000
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
DistinguishedAlumni Service Award Selection Committee
Taylor, Orlando, alumnae representative, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001, vice Geraldine B. Ford, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Clark, Elaine G., Dearborn campus representative, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Anita Barry
Ford, Geraldine B., alumnae representative, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Nellie M. Varner, term
expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Mazmanian, Daniel A., reappointed July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Wixson, Karen K., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Betsy Lozoff, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports.


297




May Meeting, 2000


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Capaldi, Tracey A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, April 1 -August 31, 2000
Carlson, Martha D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, two year term,
July 1, 2000
Clason, Todd A., M.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1 -August 31,2000
Fairchild, Matthew P., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1 -August 31, 2000
Gallagher, Mary E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Gardiner, Antonia L., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1 -August 31,2000
Hovey, Joseph D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1 -August 31, 2000
Layher, Mary G., B.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, three year term, March 1, 1999
McCray, Valerie L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -August 31,2000
Schatzel, Kim E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management Studies, University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Management, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2003
Turkay, Atac, Ph.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term, March 16, 2000
Turner, Christopher R., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, three
year term, May 1, 2000
Weadock, William J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, one year term,
April 1, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective February 1, 2000
Brockbank, Joseph W., from Associate Professor of Management Education to Clinical Professor II of
Business, School of Information, two year term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, OF CLINICAL FACULTY AND PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
Effective September 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Apgar, Barbara S., from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Family Medicine,
Medical School
Eldevik, Odd P., from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Radiology, Medical School
Fasbinder, Dennis J., from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry
Flynn, Joseph T., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Goldman, Daniel J., from Senior Associate Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental
Health Research Institute, Medical School
Gruppen, Larry D., from Senior Associate Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Medical
Education, Medical School
Huffnagle, Gary B., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Huth, Paul K., from Senior Associate Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for Political
Studies, Institute for Social Research
Kamholz, Barbara A., from Clinical Assistant Professor Ii to Clinical Associate Professor II of Psychiatry,
Medical School
Lukacs, Nicholas W., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Pathology,
Medical School
Munro, Hamish M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Anesthesiology, Medical School


298




May Meeting, 2000


Roth, Randy S., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation and from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Anesthesiology, Medical School
Standiford, Connie J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Stoffers, Kenneth W., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry, School
of Dentistry
Stumpf, Janice L., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy, College
of Pharmacy
Sweet, Burgunda V., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy,
College of Pharmacy
Tankanow, Roberta, from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy,
College of Pharmacy
Van Dort, Marcian E., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Wagner, Deborah S., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of
Pharmacy
Wahl, Wendy L., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Surgery,
Medical School
Weatherly, Robert A., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School
Yanik, Gregory A., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Yarows, Steven A., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Richard J., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Professor Emeritus
of Pediatrics in Neurology, Medical School, July 1-September 30, 2000
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, one
year term, November 1, 2000
Headington, John T., Professor Emeritus of Pathology and Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, Medical
School, one year term, May 1, 2000
McKeachie, Wilbert J., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
one year term, June 1, 2000
Santinga, John T., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term,
February 29, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aldrich, Michael S., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave, one year
term, February 1, 2000
Annich, Gail M., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Lecturer in Surgery, Medical
School, personal leave, May 5-22, 2000
Basu, Susanto, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Belorousski, Pavel, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, personal leave, March 13-December 31, 2000
Chin, Bruce, Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Crawford, Richard, Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, and Glenn McGeoch Collegiate
Professor of Music, School of Music, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Fakler, Robert A., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
Franzese, Robert J., Jr., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2000
Gross, M. Melissa, Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


299




May Meeting, 2000


Halperin, David M., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Hiebert, Elfrieda H., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Islam, Mohammed N., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, personal leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Kimball, Miles S., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Lampert, Magdalene, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Lawrence, Janet H., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 2000
Maloy, Bernard P., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Marx, Ronald W., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave, September
1, 2000-May 31,2001
Norris, Theodore B., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Raitt, Suzanne, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching assignment, September 1,
2000-May 31, 2001
Siebers, Tobin A., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Smith, Jonathan, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, University of
Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, scholarly activity leave, January
1-August 31, 2000
Soloway, Elliot, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, and Professor of
Information, without tenure, School of Information, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2000
Storer, Thomas F., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, March 13-April 19, 2000
Sulzby, Elizabeth F., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Taylor, Karla T., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Terry, Fred L., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Woodland, James R., Associate Professor of Composition and Rhetoric, with tenure, University of MichiganDearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2000
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Davis, Adrian Y., Lecturer in Education, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Education, April 30, 2000
Deschamps-Benke, Nicole A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, May 31, 2000
Ellison-Brown, Patricia A., Clinical Associate II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, March 31,
2000
Guerrero, Elisabeth S., Assistant Professor of Spanish, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2000
Hajela-Sharma, Kavita, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Hansen, Ronnell, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, March 31, 2000
Keane, Michael P., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, May 15, 2000
Knopf, Robert M., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, May 31, 2000
Lending, Diane, Assistant Professor of Management of Information Systems, University of
Michigan-Dearborn School of Management, April 30, 2000
Nel, Anton, Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2000
Reed, Frank A., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Sheldon, Susan, Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, February 29, 2000
Staples, Loretta N., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, May 31, 2000
Ward, Randy K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine and Clinical Instructor II in
Psychiatry, Medical School, March 31, 2000


300




May Meeting, 2000


Whelan, Chad T., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Retired
Cloyd, Emily L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Feuerwerker, Yi-Tsi M., Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Gray, Donald H., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Gurevich, Yuri, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Hays, Paul B., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and
Space Sciences, with tenure, and Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Humphreys, Sarah C., Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Greek, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Kowalewski, Henry S., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, June 30, 2000
Marzolf, Kingsbury, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, May 31, 2000
Moya-Raggio, Eliana, Lecturer III in Spanish, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2000
Panahi, Parviz, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30,2000
Schrader, Albert W., Lecturer in Marketing, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management,
April 30, 2000
Walker, James C. G., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Geological Sciences, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Term Completed
Bailey, Amanda, Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Benson, Heidi P., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Bishop, Stephen L., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Boisseron, Benedicte M., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30,
1999
Boyd, Melba J., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Brennan, Mary F., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Childress, Anita G., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Ching, Yau, Lecturer III in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Fountain, Ricky D., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1999
Hunter, David R., Lecturer I in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Ibrahim, Huma, Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Jacobson, Matthew E., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Korpas, Levente, Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Land, Isaac E., Lecturer I in International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Mina, Nima, Lecturer II in Persian Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Munoz, Juan A., Lecturer II in International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1999
Nawid, Senzil, Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Oden, Esra, Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Ozel, Bilge, Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
1999
Paice, Kimberly A., Lecturer II in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30,
1999
Sandler, Kevin S., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1999


301




May Meeting, 2000


Sircar, Kaushik R., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Stem, S. Rex, Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1999
Sullivan, Kevin P., Lecturer II in Old Testament, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Tipton, Sara M., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1999
Yellen, Elizabeth S., Lecturer I in Russian Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1999
Retirement memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted retirement memoirs for
21 faculty members.
William J. Anderson, Ph.D., professor of aerospace engineering in the College of
Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000, after a remarkable
career as a scholar, educator, and entrepreneur.
Professor Anderson received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in aeronautical engineering
from Iowa State University in 1957 and 1958, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from
the California Institute of Technology in 1963. He joined the University of Michigan as
an assistant professor in 1965; he was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and
professor in 1974.
Professor Anderson has made distinguished contributions to the College of
Engineering. He has been an effective and popular teacher who has guided large
numbers of undergraduate and graduate students.    Professor Anderson has had a
significant impact on the education of many engineering students who elected his
courses on finite element analysis. These popular courses provided numerous students
with the modern tools of finite element analysis and the knowledge to apply these tools
to a wide spectrum of engineering structural analysis problems.
In addition to his outstanding career as a researcher and educator, Professor
Anderson has been very active in professional practice. He is the CEO, chair of the
board, and founder of Automated Analysis Corporation of Ann Arbor and is president
and founder of Online Training, Inc., also of Ann Arbor. Automated Analysis
Corporation has been very successful as a provider of structural analysis and other
professional services. Online Training reflects Professor Anderson's long-standing interest
in continuing engineering education using books, video cassettes, and new educational
technologies. Professor Anderson also has been active as an engineering consultant for
government and industrial organizations.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding career by naming
William J. Anderson professor emeritus of aerospace engineering.
Spencer L. BeMent, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer science
in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor BeMent received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering in 1960, his
M.S. degree in electrical engineering in 1962, and his Ph.D. degree in bioengineering in
1967, all from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan as an instructor in 1963 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1968,
associate professor in 1971, and professor in 1977.
Professor BeMent's research was in the areas of information coding and
transmission in neural systems, bioelectrical properties of tissue, and neuroprosthesis.
He developed a computer-based tutorial and computational program that was used as a
self-contained teaching aid for system realization and simulation, and he introduced
tutorial programs for model-based material in electrical biophysics.   Within the
department, he served as chair of the graduate affairs committee and of the curriculum
committee and was chief undergraduate program advisor.


302




May Meeting, 2000


He is a senior member of IEEE and a member of Sigma Xi, Eta Kappa Nu and Tau
Beta Pi. He was honored with the department's Service Excellence Award in 1992.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished contributions by
naming Spencer L. BeMent professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.
William R. Dunham, Ph.D., senior distinguished research biophysicist, retired
from active faculty status on March 31, 2000, after a productive career as a researcher
and teacher.
Dr. Dunham received his A.B. degree in chemistry from the University of
California at Berkeley in 1967 and his Ph.D. degree in physical chemistry from the
University of California at San Diego in 1970. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1970 as a research associate in the Biophysics Research Division. He was
promoted to assistant research scientist in 1971, associate research scientist in 1975,
research scientist in 1987, distinguished research scientist in 1989, and senior
distinguished research scientist in 1997.
Dr. Dunham has made contributions to research in biophysics, chemistry, geology,
metallurgy, cardiology, and biochemistry. He is best known for his research on the
structure and function of metalloproteins, beginning with his Ph.D. thesis, which
demonstrated that the active site structures of a class of iron-sulfur proteins, the two-iron
ferredoxins, could be determined by spectroscopic means alone.
In July 1989, Dr. Dunham was given the University's prestigious Distinguished
Research Scientist Award and granted the title of distinguished research scientist. Since
receiving this award, Dr. Dunham has published numerous manuscripts in collaboration
with various colleagues at the University of Michigan. These publications have covered
a wide variety of disciplines and are always innovative in their research methods and in
their contributions to the current knowledge.
During his retirement, Dr. Dunham plans to continue his spectroscopic
investigations with his co-investigator over the past 30 years, Dr. Richard Sands, and to
aid the cell physiology studies of his collaborator, Dr. Cynthia Marcelo.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by naming
William R. Dunham senior distinguished research biophysicist emeritus.
Sheila C. Feld, Ph.D., professor of social work, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Feld received her A.B. degree from Brooklyn College in 1953 and her
A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1955 and 1960, respectively.
She joined the University of Michigan School of Social Work as an associate professor
in 1969 and was promoted to professor in 1972. Professor Feld also served as assistant
dean from 1971-81 and as head of the Doctoral Program in Social Work and Social
Science from 1982-89. From 1991-93, she was interim associate dean of the School of
Social Work.
Professor Feld's research focused on social psychological theory and research and
its impact on direct social work practice, especially related to aging. She is the author of
two books: Americans View Their Mental Health (with Gurin and Veroff) and Marriage
& Work in America (with Veroff).
Professor Feld was renowned for her leadership within the University. She was
active in the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs in several capacities and
in 1999 was unanimously voted recipient of the annual Distinguished Faculty
Governance Award. She served on the School of Social Work Executive Committee and
was a member of the Advisory Committee for GEO Negotiations, the Review Committee


303




May Meeting, 2000


for the Center for Human Growth and Development, and the Doctoral Program
Committee.
Nationally, Professor Feld was co-director of the training grant, "Social Research
Training on Applied Issues on Aging," through the National Institute on Aging. She also
served as a member of the Review Committee of the Center for Studies of Metropolitan
Problems at the National Institute of Mental Health and was a fellow of the American
Psychological Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Sheila C.
Feld professor emerita of social work.
Yi-tsi Feuerwerker, Ph.D., professor of Chinese language and literature, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Feuerwerker received her B.A. degree with high honors from Mount
Holyoke College in 1951, her M.A. degree from Radcliffe College in 1952, and her
Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1979. She joined the faculty of the University
of Michigan as a lecturer in the Department of Far Eastern Languages and Literatures in
1962. From 1972-84, she served as a lecturer in the Residential College. After serving
as adjunct assistant professor and associate professor without tenure from 1982-87 in the
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, she was promoted to associate professor
with tenure in the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures and the Residential
College in 1987. In 1995, she was promoted to professor in the Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures.
Professor Feuerwerker is a specialist in modern Chinese literature and was one of
the first scholars to focus on the fiction of women authors. Her first book, Ding Ling's
Fiction. Ideology and Narrative in Modern Chinese Literature (Harvard, 1982), is a
standard work in the field and has been translated into Chinese. She is the author of
scores of publications in both English and Chinese, including her most recent book,
Ideology, Power, and Text. Self-Representation and the Peasant "Other" in Modern
Chinese Literature (Stanford University Press, 1995).
Professor Feuerwerker has compiled a distinguished record of service. She has
been the teacher and mentor for many of the leading female scholars in the field and has
a truly distinguished record as a skilled and dedicated teacher at both the graduate and
undergraduate levels. Her course, "Arts and Letters of China," has been one of the
mainstays of the Asian studies curriculum at Michigan for many years. In recognition of
her superb teaching, in 1990 she was named to an Arthur F. Thumrnau Professorship, the
University's highest honor for an undergraduate teacher. Professor Feuerwerker is
regarded by her colleagues as having the highest degree of integrity and dedication to her
work, and she holds the distinction of being the first Asian woman to reach the rank of
professor at the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Yi-tsi Feuerwerker
professor emerita of Chinese language and literature.
Jack L. Goldberg, Ph.D., associate professor of mathematics in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Goldberg received his B.S. degree (1954) from the City College of New
York, and his M.S. (1957) and Ph.D. (1959) degrees from the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.
Professor Goldberg joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1961. His
research area has been in complex variables and special functions. He directed four
dissertations in these areas. In 1969-70, Professor Goldberg was a visiting associate


304




May Meeting, 2000


professor at Robert College in Istanbul, Turkey. In 1981-82, he returned to Turkey as a
Fulbright Scholar at Bugazici University in Istanbul.
Professor Goldberg has been an active and dynamic member of the department and
the University. He was an associate chair (1975-77) of the mathematics department and
has served on several University committees, including the Board in Control of
Intercollegiate Athletics. He is best known as a popular, dynamic teacher involved in
curriculum development and most recently active in bringing computers into the
classroom. He has written four textbooks stemming from his teaching on linear algebra,
matrix theory, differential equations, and other topics in applied mathematics.
Professor Goldberg has consistently received high student evaluations and in 1980
he received the Amoco Foundation Good Teaching Award from the University of
Michigan.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jack L. Goldberg,
associate professor emeritus of mathematics.
Donald H. Gray, Ph.D., professor of civil and environmental engineering in the
College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000, following
an outstanding career highlighted by excellence in teaching, research, and service.
Born in San Salvador, El Salvador, in 1936, the son of a father who worked in the
diplomatic service, Professor Gray lived in Guatemala for ten years before moving with
his family to California. He received his B.S. degree in geological engineering (1959),
his M.S. degree in petroleum engineering (1961), and his Ph.D. degree in civil
engineering (1966), all from the University of California at Berkeley. His background
also includes service in the U.S. Army and employment with Mobil International Oil
Company and Chevron Research. Professor Gray joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an assistant professor in 1966. He was promoted to associate professor in
1969 and professor in 1975.
Professor Gray was one of the first engineering faculty to embrace an
environmental stance in making engineering decisions. Early in his career, he studied
the effects of the clear-cutting of mountainside forests on the stability of the slopes and
erosion potential. He created a mini-forest slope in the greenhouse at the botanical
gardens to study the effects of moisture, root reinforcement, and finally clear-cutting of
the vegetation.  These early research activities, along with outstanding teaching
achievements, garnered for him the prestigious Class of 1938E Award of the College of
Engineering. Professor Gray was chair or co-chair of 15 Ph.D. committees.
Professor Gray demonstrated a special affection for the Great Lakes as he worked
to preserve their natural beaches and bluffs with research on the use of woody vegetation
for slope protection. Based on these studies, Professor Gray carved out a new area of
research and engineering design, "biotechnical slope protection," and published two
books in this area. Recently, he coauthored a book on landfill design founded on a
career of innovative slope stability studies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Donald H. Gray professor emeritus of civil and environmental
engineering.
Paul B. Hays, Ph.D., professor of aerospace engineering, professor of atmospheric,
oceanic, and space sciences, and Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology,
College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Hays received his B.S. degree in 1958, his M.S. degree in 1960, and his
Ph.D. degree in 1964, all from the University of Michigan. Following a postdoctoral
appointment at Queen's University in Belfast, he joined the University of Michigan as


305




May Meeting, 2000


assistant professor of aerospace engineering in 1967 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1969. In 1972, he joined the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and
Space Sciences. He was promoted to professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space
sciences and professor of aerospace engineering in 1975. He served as director of the
Space Physics Research Laboratory from 1984-89 and as chair of the Department of
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences from 1991-92. He was honored with the
appointment as Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology in 1990.
Professor Hays is one of the premier space experimentalists in the world. He is
especially known for the brilliance of his innovative designs and for his penetrating
understanding of both experimental techniques and of the significance of the science
being measured. He pioneered the use of Fabry-Perot interferometers in space to measure
the dynamics of the upper atmosphere. His instruments on the NASA Dynamics Explorer
and more recently on the NASA Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite have
revolutionized our understanding of atmospheric dynamics. Professor Hays is the author
of nearly 200 scientific papers and is a fellow of the American Geophysical Union.
In recent years, Professor Hays has pioneered the development of practical LIDAR
systems for the measurements of atmospheric motions. He holds several patents that
make it possible to build compact and economical space and aircraft devices for
measuring winds and air flow. In 1997, he founded the Michigan Aerospace Corporation,
a spin-off company which is successfully pursuing commercial applications of important
University-developed technology.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Paul B. Hays professor
emeritus of aerospace engineering, professor emeritus of atmospheric, oceanic, and
space sciences, and the Dwight F. Benton Professor Emeritus of Advanced Technology.
Sarah C. Humphreys, professor of history, professor of anthropology, and
professor of Greek in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Humphreys received her B.A. and M.A. degrees from Oxford University
in 1957 and 1959, respectively. After holding research fellowships at Oxford, she
became an academic librarian at the Warburg Institute in London in 1965. From
1972-85, she was a faculty member at University College, London. She became a
professor at the University of Michigan in 1985.
During her tenure, Professor Humphreys held visiting fellowships and professorships at
a number of prestigious institutions, including the Wissenschaftskolleg and the Max
Planck Institut fur Wissenschaftsgeschichte in Berlin, the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en
Sciences Sociales in Paris, the Institute for History and Philosophy of Science at Tel
Aviv University, the Davis Center at Princeton University, the Internationales
Forschungszentrum fur Kulturwissenschaften in Vienna, and the University of Utrecht.
She also lectured extensively throughout the world, most recently in Canada, Hungary,
and Japan.
Professor Humphreys' research interests focused on Ancient Greek society. She
has published important books and numerous articles and reviews on many aspects of
classical Greece, including the ancient economy, kinship and family, the archaeology of
death, and the culture of Greek law. In her articles, she consistently emphasized the
importance of familiarity with the classical tradition, comparative history, and the use of
theoretical models. In 1993, the University of Michigan Press reprinted one of her
volumes of comparative studies about family, women, and death in ancient Greek
society, and in 1997, it published her edited volume, Cultures of Scholarship. Her
challenging publications have earned Professor Humphreys a deserved reputation as an


306




May Meeting, 2000


international leader in articulating the intersection between history and anthropology and
as one of the most influential scholars of ancient Greece of the last half-century. Within
the University, she played a key role in the establishment and direction of the successful
graduate program in history and anthropology, and she has served on dissertation
committees for graduate students in history, classical studies, and classical archaeology.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Sarah C. Humphreys
professor emerita of history, professor emerita of anthropology, and professor emerita
of Greek.
Mary L. Hunter, assistant professor of nursing, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2000, after a most productive career as a teacher, mentor, and
researcher.
Professor Hunter received her B.S.N. degree in 1959 and her M.S.N. degree in
1973, both from the University of Michigan. She joined the faculty as an instructor in
1973 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1978.
Professor Hunter's dedication to the field of nursing is shown by her commitment
to make a difference in the future careers of student nurses. Since 1977, her teaching
methods have been an integral part of the success of a number of senior level nursing
courses at the University of Michigan and for students at Washtenaw Community
College, where she was a clinical instructor from 1992-95. In addition to her teaching,
Professor Hunter has also been a dedicated clinician. From 1985-92, she held the
position of nurse manager of Urology/Otolaryngology Unit. She then accepted a
position as director of clinical services at Arbor Hospice, where she served until 1993.
She has also been active as a part-time staff nurse at University of Michigan Health
System since 1959.
Professor Hunter's research activities have included studies on issues related to
donor nephrectomy; developing nursing diagnoses from a nursing assessment; nursing
care of the person receiving frequent eye drop instillation for corneal ulcer disease;
management of sleep, pain and emotional distress; health promotion among diabetics;
comparing nursing systems; teaching urine testing in diabetes mellitus; and the value of a
printed teaching tool for abdominal hysterectomy patients. Professor Hunter has served
on numerous committees within the School of Nursing and the University of Michigan
Health System. Within the community, she has been a board member of Packard
Community Clinic in Ann Arbor since 1979 and served as president from 1983-94.
The Regents now salute this distinguished nurse educator for her dedicated service
by naming Mary L. Hunter assistant professor emerita of nursing.
William Ingram, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,2000.
Professor Ingram received his B.A. degree from Grinnell College in 1953, his M.A.
degree from Columbia University in 1956, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1966. He came to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor
in 1966 and was promoted to associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1978.
Professor Ingram is best known in this country and abroad as one of the preeminent
historians of the Elizabethan theatre, having gained this reputation through numerous
articles in leading journals and two highly regarded books: A London Life in the Brazen
Age. Francis Langley, 1548-1602 (Harvard University Press, 1978) and The Business of
Playing. the beginnings of the adult professional theatre in Elizabethan London (Cornell
University Press, 1992). He is co-editor of the volume England, 1530-1640 in the series
The Theatre in Europe. Documents and Sources, forthcoming from Cambridge
University Press.  Professor Ingram's scholarship is characterized by painstaking


307




May Meeting, 2000


research in primary sources, mastery of the social and economic contexts of the
Elizabethan theatre, and an imaginative grasp of the lives of those involved in the
making and performance of the drama.
Within the department, Professor Ingram has served as director of the Program in
Composition and director of graduate studies. In the college, he has been coordinator of
the Program in Great Books, director of the Medieval and Renaissance Collegium, and
director of the Lloyd Hall Scholars Program. Because of his expertise in the uses of
computing in the humanities, he has served on numerous committees on computer policy
and the use of technology in education.
Professor Ingram earned the respect and affection of hosts of undergraduate and
graduate students who benefited from his expert teaching and his generosity. He shared
with students the excitement of working with original documents and inspired them to
conceive and pursue their own projects. Graduate students sought him out for the
extraordinary quality of his mentoring and became friends. As host, organizer of reading
groups and programs, and catalyst, Professor Ingram played an indispensable role in
creating a sense of intellectual community among colleagues and graduate students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William Ingram professor
emeritus of English language and literature.
Henry S. Kowalewski, professor of architecture in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Kowalewski received his B.Arch. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1960. He joined the faculty as a lecturer in 1962 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1966, associate professor in 1971, and professor in 1976.
Since his appointment to the architecture program, Professor Kowalewski has
taught design, construction, environmental technologies, advanced lighting, and building
enclosure systems to undergraduates and master's degree students in the college. He has
also been an active member of many program, college, and University committees.
Widely recognized as an outstanding teacher, in 1989 Professor Kowalewski received
the student-sponsored "Nobody Does It Like You" award for excellence in teaching.
Professor Kowalewski is registered as a professional in Michigan and Illinois. He
worked for James Kideney and Associates in New York, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, and Thomas Tanner of Ann Arbor, becoming a partner with Tanner until
1973 when he began Kowalewski and Associates, where he currently practices. Over the
years, many Michigan graduates had their first professional experience as employees of
his firm. He is a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), Association of
Collegiate Schools of Architecture (ACSA), Illumination Engineering Society of North
America (IESNA), and Huron Valley Chapter of AIA (director from 1987-90).
The Regents salute this distinguished educator by naming Henry S. Kowalewski
professor emeritus of architecture.
Joyce I. Lindeman, associate professor of kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
and lecturer in education, School of Education, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 2000, after a most productive teaching and administrative career.
Professor Lindeman received her B.S. degree in 1954 from Eastern Michigan
University and her M.A. degree in 1965 from the University of Michigan. She joined the
School of Education as assistant professor in 1968 and became associate professor in
1973 and coordinator of teacher education in 1983. In 1984, physical education was
separated from the School of Education to become an independent academic unit, now
called the Division of Kinesiology. Professor Lindeman became chair of Sports


308




May Meeting, 2000


Management and Communication in 1989 and was named associate director for
curriculum and instruction in 1991.
In addition to teaching many physical education courses, Professor Lindeman
coached the U-M Synchronized Swimming team from 1972-83 and directed six water
shows. Her teams consistently ranked among the top three in the nation. She coached
and managed several national team tours to Europe and the Pan American Games, the
1989 Olympic Festival, and the 1990 Goodwill Games.
Professor Lindeman served multiple years as vice president for olympic
international, administration, and education for U.S. Synchronized Swimming (USSSI)
from 1984-97 and is in that organization's Hall of Fame. Within the University, she
served two terms on the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics. She received
kinesiology's first Teaching Excellence Award in 1990 and was one of two faculty
honored in 1995 with the Michigan Association of Governing Board's Distinguished
Faculty Award. She brought about numerous innovations in the curriculum and in
teaching technology and was an esteemed and dedicated mentor to both faculty and
students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joyce I. Lindeman
associate professor emerita of kinesiology.
in theCoe College of Engineeinng, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Lomax received his B.A. degree in mathematics in 1956 and his M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees in applied mathematics in 1960, all from the University of Cambridge,
England. From 1959-61, he was a bye-fellow of Peterhouse, Cambridge. He joined the
University of Michigan as a visiting assistant professor in 1961. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1963, associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1973. From
1977-78, he also was a visiting professor at Stanford University.
Professor Lomax has published in the areas of electron gun design, plasma
simulation, microwave devices, finite difference and finite element simulation of
solid-state devices, Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI), and electronic packaging. He
has taught courses in physical electronics, integrated circuits, numerical methods, digital
logic, and VLSI design.
He is a fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, a life senior member of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), a member of the Society for
Industrial and Applied Mathematics, and a member of the International Microelectronics
and Packaging Society. Within the department and the college, he was honored with the
Service Excellence Award in 1991 and the Class of 1938E Award for Distinguished
Service as an Engineering Teacher in 1985. He has also served on the University of
Michigan Senate Assembly, its executive committee, SACUA, and several of its
standing committees.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished contributions by
naming Ronald J. Lomax professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.
Khalil H. Mancy, Ph.D., professor of environmental chemistry and director and
research scientist, Institute of Environmental Sciences in the School of Public Health,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
A native of Egypt, Professor Mancy earned his B.S. degree in chemistry (1952) and a
Diploma in Public Health (1956) from the University of Cairo and M.S. (1959) and Ph.D.
(1963) degrees from the University of North Carolina. He came to the University of
Michigan as an assistant professor in 1965 and was promoted to associate professor in 1966


309




May Meeting, 2000


and professor in 1970. He became a research scientist at the Institute of Environmental
Sciences in 1974 and has served as its director since 1991. He also served as chair of the
Department of Environmental and Industrial Health (now Environmental Health Sciences)
from 1991-98.
Professor Mancy's outstanding doctoral research led to the development of the Galvanic
Cell Oxygen Analyzer, giving environmental scientists the ability to instantaneously measure
dissolved oxygen concentration in water systems. His later research led to the development
of membrane electrode systems for in situ measurement of ozone and chorine dioxide
gases and biofilm electrodes for the detection of toxic chemicals and viruses in water,
methods which have been widely applied. He has worked for many years with the
National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) International in developing voluntary
environmental health standards.
Professor Mancy is recognized throughout the world for his wide expertise in a variety
of fields, including water resources and water quality management, pollution control
technology, marine pollution prevention, environmental exposure and health risk assessment,
environmental quality monitoring, and toxic chemicals and hazardous waste management.
He has published over 100 papers and reports and co-authored 11 books. He has advised
more than 2 dozen doctoral students and scores of masters degree students. Among his
many awards are the Distinguished Alumni Award from the University of North Carolina
and awards from scientific and governmental organizations in Egypt, Korea, Venezuela,
Switzerland, and Poland.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Khalil H. Mancy professor
emeritus of environmental chemis and research scientist emeritus of environmental chemistry and research scientist emeritus.
Kingsbury Marzolf, professor of architecture in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Planning, will retire from actire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Marzolf received his B.Arch. and M.Arch degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1952 and 1961, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
as an instructor in 1963 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1965, associate professor
in 1970, and professor of architecture in 1975.
Since his appointment to the architecture program, Professor Marzolf has taught
undergraduate, master's, and doctoral degree students and has served as chair or co-chair
of several dissertation committees. Professor Marzolf also has played an integral role in
starting and nurturing the college's overseas study programs in Vienna, Prague, and Florence.
He has been an active member of many program, college, and University committees.
Professor Marzolf has had an outstanding career as an educator. In 1975-76, he
received the Sol King Award for excellence in teaching and in 1995 he received the AIA
Michigan President's Award to recognize his outstanding contributions to the profession
and community through education. He is a member of the American Institute of
Architects (AIA), Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture (ACSA), Society of
Architectural Historians, Historical Society of Michigan, and the Committee on the State
Capitol. He has also served on the Ann Arbor Historic District Commission and the State
Historic Preservation Review Board.
In his role as an ambassador for AIA Michigan and for the University, Professor
Marzolf has been host to hundreds of foreign faculty and students. When they leave the
area, they take with them an appreciation of American culture and hospitality and a
thorough knowledge of the architecture of the region. Over the last 35 years, Professor
Marzolf has given numerous lectures on architecture and historic preservation to local,
state, national, and international groups.


310




May Meeting, 2000


The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Kingsbury Marzolf
professor emeritus of architecture.
Richard A. Potts, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on April 30,
2000.
Professor Potts received his B.A. degree from Hiram College, Hiram, Ohio, in 1962
and his Ph.D. degree from Northwestern University in 1966. He joined the University of
Michigan-Dearborn faculty as an assistant professor in 1966 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1973.
Professor Potts has left an indelible mark on the chemistry program at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn. He was instrumental in securing accreditation by the
American Chemical Society. He helped secure a permanent position of chemistry
demonstrator to assist faculty in designing and performing chemical demonstrations and
was responsible for developing a research-grade instrumentation laboratory. He has
taught more than 20 different courses, many of them laboratory-based, including
scientific glassblowing. One of the early advocates of the use of computers in chemistry,
Professor Potts helped secure funding for microcomputers in general chemistry
lecture halls. He helped establish a network of alumni and kept it active by founding and
editing the annual Chemistry Alumni Newsletter. His personal contacts with a large
fraction of the more than 300 chemistry and biochemistry graduates have resulted in gifts
to the University, contacts and job leads for present students, and career guidance for
alumni.
Professor Potts has been a leader in chemical education in the metropolitan Detroit
area. For 25 years, he has served the Detroit section of the American Chemical Society in
almost every possible role. He has coordinated the local Chemistry Olympiad
competition involving over 200 high school students annually and for 8 consecutive
summers, he hosted workshops for high school teachers sponsored by the Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. For this work, he received distinguished service
awards from the ACS Detroit Section in 1986 and the University of Michigan-Dearborn
in 1994. In March 2000, the Michigan Science Teachers Association recognized him as
the Michigan Science Teacher of the Year.
The Regents salute this distinguished inorganic chemist for his dedicated service
by naming Richard A. Potts professor emeritus of chemistry.
W. Leslie Rogers, Ph.D., professor of internal medicine and senior research scientist,
Medical School, and professor of biomedical engineering, College of Engineering, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31,2000, after an outstanding career.
A native of Pleasantville, NewYork, Professor Rogers received his A.B. degree
from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1955 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Case
Institute of Technology in 1961 and 1967, respectively. From 1968-70, he was senior
engineer for Bendix Aerospace Systems. He joined the faculty of the Department of
Internal Medicine as a research associate in 1970. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1973, associate professor in 1987, and professor in 1989. Concurrently, he
became associate research scientist in 1980 and research scientist in 1984. He received
the additional appointment as professor of biomedical engineering in 1997.
For over 30 years, Professor Rogers has been at the forefront of research on the
development and characterization of novel radiation detectors and systems for emission
imaging. He has contributed greatly to the understanding of the fundamental physics and
engineering of radiation detectors and systems, including novel approaches to nuclear


311




May Meeting, 2000


medicine imaging using Fresnel zone plates and a very imaginative family of coded-aperture
imaging strategies which have challenged the conventional design of medical devices.
Currently, he directs a project which is rethinking the overall design of the imaging
instrumentation widely used in hospitals today. His Compton-scatter camera design is a
serious attempt to improve emission imaging in clinical diagnosis.
Professor Rogers has been a major figure in medical imaging education at the
University of Michigan. He has served on more than 35 thesis committees in many
departments and was a key figure in the formation of the Department of Biomedical
Engineering. Nationally, he has served for over 20 years on important review bodies and
scientific program committees. In 1998, he received the Medical Imaging Scientist Award
from the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist for his dedicated service by
naming W. Leslie Rogers professor emeritus of internal medicine, professor emeritus of
biomedical engineering, and senior research scientist emeritus.
James C. G. Walker, Ph.D., professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences
in the College of Engineering and professor of geological sciences in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Walker received his B.S. degree from Yale University in 1960 and his
Ph.D. degree from Columbia University in 1964. Following postdoctoral appointments
at Queen's University in Belfast and at the Goddard Space Flight Center, Professor
Walker served on the faculty of Yale University from 1967-74 and as a senior research
associate at the Arecibo Observatory from 1974-80. He came to the University of
Michigan in 1980 as professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences in the
College of Engineering. In 1986, he was also appointed professor of geological sciences
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. He was honored with an Arthur F.
Thurnau Professorship in 1993.
Professor Walker began his career by making fundamental contributions to
understanding optical emissions and the energy balance of the Aurora Borealis. He then
undertook ionospheric research through the use of backscattering radar, heading the
Ionospheric Section at Arecibo. He is perhaps best known, however, for his studies on
the origin and evolution of the earth's atmosphere and the chemical composition of the
oceans. He has made seminal contributions on the conditions necessary for the origin of
life. His book, Evolution of the Atmosphere, has been widely used by both specialists in
the field and atmospheric scientists alike. His later work has included interactions of
carbon dioxide with the solid earth and the concomitant changes in surface temperature
of the planet. He has been an active researcher in both natural and anthropogenic climate
change.
Within the University, Professor Walker has been a strong supporter of environmental
studies, having served as director of environmental studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts for seven years, from 1991-98 Through his teaching, he has made
countless students aware of the relevance and importance of our interactions with, and
influence upon, the environment.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher and educator for his dedicated
service by naming James C. G. Walker professor emeritus of atmospheric, oceanic, and
space sciences and professor emeritus of geological sciences.
Patrick C. West, Ph.D., associate professor of natural resources and the Samuel T.
Dana Associate Professor of Outdoor Recreation in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.


312




May Meeting, 2000


A native of Minnesota, Professor West received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the
University of Minnesota in 1967 and 1969, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from Yale
University in 1975. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor of outdoor recreation in 1977 and was promoted to associate professor in 1982
and associate professor with tenure in 1983. He was director of Camp Filibert Roth from
1983-84 and was named the Samuel T. Dana Associate Professor of Outdoor Recreation
in 1989.
Professor West is known for his teaching in natural resource/environmental sociology
and outdoor recreation. His research focuses on the sociological aspects of resource
development and protection in relation to economic development and rural poverty both in
the U.S. and in developing countries, with a special focus on social justice and natural
resource/environmental issues. Recently, he has conducted research on implementing
measures to reduce risk to Afro-American anglers from toxic fish in the Detroit River and
on natural resources based community development programs for the Ojibway Village of
Inger on the Leech Lake Reservation in northern Minnesota.
Professor West taught courses in forest recreation resource management,
environmental natural resources and behavior, integrated field studies, social impact
analysis, applied behavioral and social science, integrative problem solving, and outdoor
recreation tourism and ecodevelopment. He was a member of 35 student thesis,
practicum or dissertation committees and chaired 14 Ph.D. and 21 Master's committees.
He received a Certificate of Appreciation from the University of Michigan Council on
Disability Concerns in 1993.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Patrick C. West
associate professor emeritus of natural resources and the Samuel T. Dana associate
professor emeritus of outdoor recreation.
James 0. Wilkes, Ph.D., professor of chemical engineering, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 2000, following 40 years of teaching, research, and service at
the University.
Born in Southampton, England, Professor Wilkes received his B.A. degree from the
University of Cambridge in 1954 and his M.S.E. and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1956 and 1963, respectively. He served on the faculty at the University
of Cambridge from 1957-60 and joined the University of Michigan in 1960 as an
instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, associate professor in 1966,
and professor in 1970.
Professor Wilkes was a pioneer in the numerical solution of partial differential
equations and his research interests have focused on this area. He has been a prolific
author or co-author of popular textbooks throughout his career, from the first, Applied
Numerical Methods (Wiley), in 1969, to the most recent, Fluid Mechanics for Chemical
Engineers (Prentice-Hall), in 1999. He has chaired or co-chaired 22 doctoral committees.
For extended periods beginning in 1967 and continuously from 1981-97, he shared
responsibility for all required freshman computing courses in the College of Engineering,
which directly impacted perhaps 30,000 Michigan engineering freshmen.  In the
classroom, Professor Wilkes specialized in fluid mechanics and numerical methods. He
has been recognized many times for his dedicated classroom teaching, beginning in 1980
as the first recipient of the College of Engineering Excellence in Teaching Award. In
1987, he received the highest University award for classroom teaching, the Amoco Good
Teaching Award, and in 1989, he was named an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor.
Professor Wilkes served as chair of the chemical engineering department from
1972-77, as a member of the College of Engineering Executive Committee from 1985-89,


313




May Meeting, 2000


as assistant dean for admissions in the college from 1990-94, and as assistant- or co-editor
of two professional chemical engineering journals. His outstanding contributions to the
department, the College of Engineering, the University, and his profession are widely
recognized and appreciated by his students and colleagues.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and educator by naming James
O. Wilkes professor emeritus of chemical engineering.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
President Bollinger observed that Julie Peterson, director of News and Information
Services, had done an excellent job filling in during the search for a vice president for
communications, and he thanked her for her efforts. He also thanked Professor Sid
Bulkowsky, chair of the Dearborn chancellor search committee, and the rest of the
committee for their service in successfully concluding the search.
Six Months Report on University Audits
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the Six Months Report on University
Audits.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin provided information on follow-on investments
in funds sponsored by three previously approved alternative asset partnerships: Sequoia
Capital X, L.P.; Morgenthaler Ventures VI, L.P.; and Accel VIII, L.P.
The University of Michigan Walgreen Drama Center
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that a request for appointment of an
architect for this project would be forthcoming in a few months. He noted that the
proposed location would enhance what is becoming a performing arts district on
campus and credited the master planning process and Venturi Scott Brown &
Associates, with this result. He also noted that the site is on land already owned by the
University, allowing money that might have been spent on property acquisition to be
spent on programmatic activities in the performing arts.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the Walgreen Drama Center Project and its
site, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Brandon seconded the
motion.
Regent Deitch commented that "this is a wonderful moment for the University."
He said that naming the theatre for Arthur Miller is "a lovely idea" and is consistent
with President Bollinger's long-expressed notion of the University's becoming less
modest in emphasizing its contributions to the world and its influence on leading world
figures. He also commented that President Bollinger, Vice President Feagin, and other
University officials "have done a spectacular job in development." He noted that two
major donors had recently commented to him about how thrilled they are with what's
going on at the University of Michigan under President Bollinger's leadership. The fact
that donors are willing to continue to give is a tribute to the "compelling vision" that the
president has identified to them. He observed that a project like the Walgreen Drama


314




May Meeting, 2000


Center "brings the kind of life to a place like Ann Arbor that makes it a mecca for the
kind of people who will replicate things that have gone on in the past and who make the
community a wonderful, rich place in which to live."
President Bollinger credited Vice President Feagin with developing the personal
relationships with major donors that have led to such fruitful collaborations.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Extension of Existing Lease with First Martin Corporation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved authorization for extension of an existing lease with First Martin
Corporation. Because William C. Martin is an officer and major shareholder of First
Martin Corporation and is also serving as University of Michigan interim athletic
director, this lease extension falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
its Middle English Dictionary Project and First Martin Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is an extension of an existing lease for three
additional months, at a rate of $5,734.00 dollars for two of these months, with
the final month of the lease at no charge.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University
of Michigan employee, is an officer and major shareholder of First Martin
Corporation.
Payment for Services of What Is It This Week
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved authorization to process payment for services provided by What
Is It This Week. Because the sole owner of What Is It This Week, Susan Fisher, is also
a University of Michigan employee, this payment falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
its UMHS Radiation Oncology Department and What Is It This Week.
2.   The service provided was silk screening of hats and shirts at a total cost of
$596.50.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Susan Fisher, a University of
Michigan employee, is sole owner of What Is It This Week.
Purchasing Contract with Vaassen Sheep Farm
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Vaassen Sheep Farm to board sheep
that are used for research study. Because Sharon Vaassen is both co-owner of Vaassen
Sheep Farm and a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:


315




May Meeting, 2000


1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
UMHS Orthopaedic Research Laboratories and Vaassen Sheep Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is the boarding of sheep for the purposes of
research study, with the service to be provided for the period beginning
May 1, 2000 and ending April 30, 2001, for a total dollar amount of
$5,000.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Sharon Vaassen, a University
of Michigan employee, is the co-owner of Vaassen Sheep Farm.
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Valley View Farm to buy and board
sheep that are used in medical research projects. Because Douglas Doop, the sole
owner of Valley View Farm, is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is the boarding and selling of sheep for the
purposes of medical research, with the service to be provided for the period
beginning May 1, 2000, and ending June 30, 2005, for a total dollar amount of
$50,000.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of Valley View Farm.
Research Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Northwestern University
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research subcontract between the University of Michigan and
Northwestern University to support the collaborative activities of Dr. John Birge at
Northwestern University. Because Dr. Birge is also on a leave of absence from the
University of Michigan, effective September 1, 1999, through May 31, 2000, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Northwestern
University.
2.   Under the terms of the agreement, a total subcontract of approximately
$40,000 is anticipated to cover the period of April 1, 2000, through March
31, 2001. The University's standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Birge's leave of absence status at the University of Michigan is without
compensation.
Regent McGowan left the meeting at this point, at 3:20 p.m.
Change in Name of Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of Mechanical


316




May Meeting, 2000


Engineering and Applied Mechanics in the College of Engineering to the Department of
Mechanical Engineering.
Establishment of Academic Departments in the College of Pharmacy
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the establishment of a departmental structural in the College of
Pharmacy, as described in the Regents Communication. The departments to be
established are the Department of Clinical Sciences, the Department of Medicinal
Chemistry, the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, and the Department of Social
and Administrative Sciences.
Approval of Academic Calendar for 2002-2003
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the academic calendar for 2002-2003 for the Ann Arbor campus,
as described in the Regents communication.
New Degree Program for the UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer
Science ("Master of Science in Information Systems and Technology")
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Science in Information
Systems and Technology," to be offered by the College of Engineering and Computer
Science at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
A five-minute break followed.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Pamela A. Gerald, student, on subtle racism on the Dearborn campus; Gary
Hann, citizen, on abusive discrimination by the University of Michigan; Michael
Edwards and Warren Jenkins, president and bargaining chair, respectively, of AFSCME
Local 1583, about violation of the collective bargaining agreement pertaining to paid
time off language; Patricia Myles, citizen and member of the Committee to Challenge
Racism Against Indigenous People, about space allocation for Michigamua; and
Nicholas Waun, student, about the University's ownership of tobacco stock.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:00 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for June 15-16, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


317




JUNE MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 15, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, and Taylor. Also present
were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim
Chancellor Klein, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice
President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice
President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regents Horning and Newman and
Chancellor Mestas arrived shortly after the start of the meeting. Regent White and
Interim Vice President Harper were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Provost Cantor.
M-Pathways
Provost Cantor announced that the student information systems portion of the
M-Pathways project had experienced a successful roll-out last week. This included
conversion of 65,000 active student records and accounts and training of 1,200 people
on the new system. The project involved collaboration between the schools and
colleges and the central administrative offices. She noted that students on campus for
summer orientation sessions have been able to successfully register on-line due to the
success of this project. She introduced Laura Patterson, M-Pathways project manager;
John Gohsman, M-Pathways student administration sub-project manager; Tom
McElvain, University registrar; Pam Fowler, director of the Office of Financial Aid;
Chip Simper, manager of student loans and student financials; Sue Eklund, M-Pathways
change management manager; and Lester Monts, associate provost and the
administrator with overall responsibility for the student administration offices.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that implementation of these systems
has been problematic for most universities, and it is a credit to those responsible for it
on this campus that the implementation has gone so smoothly.
A round of applause followed.
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) Report - Ann Arbor
Campus
This report was presented by Professor Rudi Lindner, chair of CESF. Professor
Lindner reviewed compensation guidelines that had been forwarded to the provost last
year. These include nondiscrimination; openness about the determination of compensation;
consistency in the application of policy; peer review; communication; and accountability.
He noted that CESF is working with the administration to get a better understanding of the
distribution and nature of faculty compensation across the University.
Professor Lindner also discussed what CESF believes to be the growing impact of
the use of merit salary pools available to units for meeting outside offers for faculty
members. He noted that it is the best departments whose faculty are most frequently
raided, and thus faculty in these departments may be impacted multiple times. As one


319




June Meeting, 2000


of the remedies for this, he suggested that faculty join in University-wide fundraising
effort.
UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget and Finance Board Report
This report was given by Professor James Knight, chair of the UM-Dearborn
Faculty Senate Budget and Finance Board. Professor Knight described the report's four
recommendations:  1) development of global fiscal and academic performance
measures; 2) development of a long-term plan for improving faculty salaries; 3)
addressing the significant financial risks posed by the large and growing debt load on
the Dearborn campus; and 4) providing a formal mechanism through which faculty can
have more informed input into the budgetary decision-making process.
Professor Knight also observed that compared with its Michigan IIA public
university peer institutions, UM-Dearborn ranks below average in most comparative
measures of academic quality, including faculty salaries. Administrative expenses and
tuition, however, are high relative to peer institutions.
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) Report - Flint Campus
Professor Robert Stack presented the report for the Flint campus. He noted that
the Flint CESF report underscores the "alarming drop" in real and relative salary
position the UM-Flint faculty has experienced for more than five years, to the point
where faculty salaries are in the lowest tier of peer institutions and have failed to keep
pace with inflation. The committee has focused on examining the impact of this salary
trend on faculty inversion and compression. It also plans to develop, in cooperation
with the administration, a reliable and useful salary database and data collection process
that will enable faculty and administrators to monitor and correct salary deficiencies
and inequities in the future. He praised Chancellor Mestas for his supportive attitude
and openness in the budget process and expressed the hope that this openness will lead
to improvements in the budget process and in faculty and staff compensation across the
campus.
Regent Maynard observed that it might be helpful if the Flint and Dearborn
campuses would collaborate on their reports so that it would be easier to compare data
between the two campuses as well as against peer institutions.
Regent Newman arrived at the meeting at this point.
University of Michigan Alumni Association Update
President Bollinger called on Mr. Steve Grafton, executive director of the
University of Michigan Alumni Association. Mr. Grafton indicated that notebooks with
material from the Alumni Association had been distributed at the meeting.
Mr. Grafton stated that the Alumni Association is an independent, worldwide
organization that nurtures lifelong relationships with and among current and future
Michigan alumni. Underlying the association's activities is a belief in the value of
education to the well-being of society and a commitment to integrity, diversity, and
service. He noted that the alumni association was incorporated in 1897 and is a
not-for-profit organization.
Mr. Grafton explained the relationship between the Alumni Association and the
University, noting that staff members receive University checks and benefits, but that


320




June Meeting, 2000


he reports to a volunteer board of directors and not to anyone at the University. The
Alumni Association raised the money to build its building, then donated the building to
the University for the use of the association. In support of the Association's help with
development efforts, the University has been allocating $267,000 annually to the
association for about 30 years.
Mr. Grafton reviewed Alumni Association programs, which include a travel
program, Camp Michigania, sponsorship of bowl tours, legislative advocacy, on and
off-campus alumni education programs, and publishing of the alumni magazine. He
noted that the association is in a strong financial position. He also pointed out that the
association has a long-standing, firm commitment to diversity, and that this is an
important issue for the association.
Mr. Grafton pointed out that although the Alumni Association membership of
100,000 represents about 28% of alumni, the remaining 72% remain unconnected. He
described efforts underway to engage segments of alumni who traditionally remain
uninvolved in alumni affairs.  These include offering programs in the areas of
networking, career services, continuing education, and e-mail. To broaden its appeal,
the association is taking a life-stage approach by dividing alumni into four market
segments, and it is continuing to do research so that it can more directly meet the needs
and desires of alumni. He described some recent nontraditional events that have been
targeted to alumni at different life stages.
The association's membership policy is changing so that individuals who join the
Alumni Association will automatically become members of their local clubs. Mr.
Grafton concluded that the goal is to create an association that is valuable enough to
alumni that they will want to be a part of it, as this will create alumni that will be most
helpful to the University.
President Bollinger commented that although some of the changes the association
is trying to make are controversial for some groups, he supports the goal of becoming
more of a force in the University.
Athletic Department Update
President Bollinger called on Mr. Bill Martin, interim athletic director, who
reviewed what he has learned about the Athletic Department in just over 100 days on
the job. Mr. Martin introduced several department staff members who were present.
He also thanked former athletic director Tom Goss for the wholehearted cooperation he
has shown in assisting him during the transition in leadership of the department and
praised the Athletic Department staff.
Mr. Martin reported that with the addition of men's soccer and women's water
polo in the fall, there will be 25 varsity sports and 44 club sports. The University is
consistently ranked among the top five of 318 Division I colleges and universities
nationally and is currently number 3, as measured by the Sears Cup. The University
leads the Big 10 in gender equity, and it grants the maximum number of scholarships
permitted in every sport. The budget is approximately $45 million.
The goals of the Athletic Department, he noted, are to continue Michigan's
tradition of national excellence in competitive sports, support academic excellence,
remain committed to gender equity and diversity, and achieve long-term financial


321




June Meeting, 2000


equilibrium. The two major challenges facing the department, he noted, are academic
alternatives for student-athletics, and returning to financial equilibrium.
Regarding academics, he said that as a guiding principle, the Big 10 conference
states that student athletes must be provided with "viable and attainable opportunities
for academic success." He noted that historically, 10 percent of student-athletes are "at
risk" academically (lower than 2.21 GPA), and that at-risk student-athletes are
over-represented in the Division of Kinesiology. Mr. Martin observed that Provost
Cantor has agreed to consider a pilot program for enhanced academic support, and that
efforts are going to be made to strengthen the ties among coaches, student-athletes,
faculty, and administration. He praised Provost Cantor for all of her help to date.
Mr. Martin described the major financial issues facing the Athletic Department.
He pointed out that the department is not in financial equilibrium, and its budget for
2000-2001 will most likely have a deficit. However, he said he is confident the deficit
can be eliminated in the following fiscal year. He noted that the mission of competitive
excellence for all sports carries with it a significant financial commitment, since the
University funds the full NCAA scholarship limit available for each of its 25 sports, and
70 percent of athletic scholarships go to nonresident athletes. In addition, expenses
have escalated faster than revenues as a result of adding sports, infrastructure
maintenance, and inflation. Several needed capital improvements are being deferred,
but will need to be addressed in the future. He observed that although football tickets
are a major source of revenue, ticket prices will not be raised for the coming season.
Mr. Martin noted again that in 2000 there will be 12 men's and 13 women's
sports, and that there are not enough resources to add any additional sports. He
reviewed the methods used by other Big Ten institutions to raise revenues for athletics,
which include naming rights, preferential seating programs, seat licenses, suite rentals,
and scoreboard advertising.
Regarding costs, he noted that the University of Michigan spends more than any
other Big Ten institution in annual grant-in-aid costs ($8.3 million). Unlike the
University of Michigan, some Big Ten athletic departments receive funding from
administrative support and have other approaches for tuition of student athletes. In the
area of debt service, Michigan's debt load ($15 million) and debt service costs ($2.7
million) are substantially less than those of many peer Big Ten institutions.
Mr. Martin said that $20-25 million will be needed over the next five years to fund
facility infrastructure renovations, including $5 million for Crisler Arena. Planned
facility expansions will cost an additional $30 million, but many of these expenses will
be derived through fundraising efforts. Among the alternatives being examined for
reaching financial equilibrium beyond FY 2000-2001 are increasing football ticket
prices in line with those of peer institutions; implementing preferential seating plans
(including sky boxes) and seat license programs; adding seating in Yost Ice Arena and
Michigan Stadium; and exploring new sources of revenue that could be derived from
such initiatives as facility rentals and advertising.
Mr. Martin then reviewed cost containment initiatives planned for the coming
fiscal year. These include a seven percent target budget reduction for most sports;
reducing publications expenses; reducting facility staff overtime; and making more
effective use of the department's production studio.


322




June Meeting, 2000


Mr. Martin concluded that the only way the Athletic Department can continue its
traditional mission and record of excellence is by acquiring additional resources. These
resources can be generated within the department with the support of the Board of
Regents and administration.
Resolution in Honor of Michigan Academic Competition Team
President Bollinger called on Regent Brandon, who read the following resolution:
REGENTS' RESOLUTION
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate the 1999-2000
Michigan Academic Competition team for another superb season, culminating
in the winning of the College Bowl National Tournament April 30 at Bentley
College in Waltham, Massachusetts.
Led by Coach Ati Tislerics, the five-member team was comprised of
Craig D. Barker, Michelle LaLonde-Reaume, Stephen Traicoff, Noel Erinjeri,
and captain and tournament all-star Michael Davidson. It was the third time
in five seasons that a Michigan team has captured the national championship.
The academic team's triumphant showing over leading contenders from
other regions and ultimately the University of Arkansas crowned a season
characterized by outstanding training and teamwork.
The Regents proudly salute all the students who participated in the
Michigan Academic Competition program and thank this year's College Bowl
National Champions for so ably representing the University of Michigan.
The team members came forward to accept the resolution and were introduced. A
round of applause followed. Team member Craig Barker thanked the Regents for
supporting the team through funding of the University Activities Center over the years.
Resolution in Honor of Interim Chancellor Bernard W. Klein
Regent Taylor called Interim Chancellor Klein to the podium and read the
following resolution:
REGENTS' RESOLUTION
Once again the Regents of the University of Michigan express their
gratitude to Dr. Bernard Klein as he steps down following an unprecedented
third term as interim chancellor of the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
A highly regardedfaculty member and gifted administrator, Dr. Klein
has demonstrated a keen understanding of the campus and its students. His
deep love for the University of Michigan-Dearborn is abundantly clear.
Dr. Klein brought to this position his profound ability to communicate
with all members of the University community, his renowned sense or humor,
and his access and influence among decision-makers in southeastern
Michigan.  Through his career in public service and elected office, he
developed strong ties with many leaders in metropolitan Detroit, ties that


323




June Meeting, 2000


have benefited the Dearborn campus and the larger University over the past
thirty years.
Although some may conjecture that he has reached his term limit as
interim chancellor, Bernie Klein knows that a good leader never says "never. "
The Regents commend Dr. Bernard Klein and convey their heartfelt
appreciation for his loyalty and dedicated service to the Dearborn campus and
to the University of Michigan.
A round of applause followed. Dr. Klein thanked the Board for its support, noting
that he had enjoyed the experience and was very gratified by the tribute.
Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby announced that this month's presentation would highlight
the work of Michael K. Daugherty, professor of music (composition). Professor
Daugherty is currently also composer in residence with the Detroit Symphony
Orchestra, and his new work, "Rosa Parks Boulevard," had just been premiered by the
orchestra.
Professor Daugherty gave a presentation illustrating the process by which he
developed "Rosa Parks Boulevard." The presentation included demonstrations of
various elements of the piece by trombonist Robert Meyer and a video of the premier
performance by the Detroit Symphony Orchestra.
Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Regent Maynard read the following motion:
I move that we adjourn this formal session of the Regents and begin a
nonformal session, the purpose of which is to consider a personnel evaluation.
The meeting continued in informal session until 4:10 p.m., at which time it
reconvened in formal session for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Audrey Jackson, alumna, Douglas C. Kelley, former staff member, Eugene
Feingold, faculty member, Ronald C. Bishop, professor emeritus, Clifford E. Douglas,
alumnus, and Andrew Lurie, student, in favor of divestment of tobacco stocks; Michael
Edwards, president of ASFCME Local 1583 and Warren Jenkins, bargaining chair of
ASFCME Local 1583, on plans to privatize the UM Hospitals cafeteria; Larry Harvilla,
student, on the possible merger of AATA and the University bus system; and Nicholas
Waun, student, on corporate influence in universities.
Following public comments, the informal session resumed from 4:50 until 5:30 p.m.
Friday, June 16, 2000
The Regents met at 9:45 a.m. Present were President Bollinger and Regents
Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor. Also present
were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim
Chancellor Klein, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas,


324




June Meeting, 2000


Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary
Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White and
Interim Vice President Harper were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order. He announced that Professor
Susan Alcock, associate professor in the classical studies department and assistant
research scientist in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, had just been awarded a
prestigious MacArthur Foundation Fellowship.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the May 2000 meeting.
Business and Finance Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted
reports of Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Regarding the Investment Report, he noted that the December 31, 1999, proportion of
the asset allocation in venture capital has increased due to the fact that a number of
publicly traded stocks that will be distributed to the University are still being held by
the partnerships. Although the target allocation for alternative assets is 30 percent, the
allocation as of December 31 was 34 percent. However, when the publicly traded
stocks still being held by the partnerships are not counted, the allocation is well before
the 30 percent target.  He noted that this situation is being closely watched by
investment office staff.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report on Projects
Established for May 2000. He noted that awards to date are at a record high,
representing a 42 percent increase over last year, for a total of $699 million.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
reported that the health system projects at least a $13 million increase in external grant
support for its medical research programs, and it expects to close the current fiscal year
with a positive balance. For the upcoming fiscal year, he noted that the health system
has set an expense reduction target of $35-$40 million.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Interim Chancellor Klein noted that the
campus was eagerly awaiting the arrival on July 1 of newly appointed chancellor Daniel
Little.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas shared the accomplishments of
two students from the Flint campus: Sean Michael Welch and Jason Holt. Mr. Welch
is an award-winning playwright, who won the John Cauble Short Play Award at the
Kennedy Center/American College Theatre Festival in Washington, D.C., in April
1999. Mr. Holt is a multitalented individual with an almost perfect academic record
who just received three degrees from UM-Flint and will begin pursuing a Ph.D. degree
in the fall.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Mr. Hideki Tsutsumi, president of MSA,
reported that one of MSA's major initiatives in the coming year will be expanding the
student lobbying effort with the state legislature in an effort to gain increased support
for higher education from Lansing.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report of Voluntary
Support. She noted that the University had recently received two irrevocable trusts
325




June Meeting, 2000


from Lincoln Knorr, and that there has also been a significant increase in outright gifts
from individuals.
Knight Aldrich, Charlottesville, Virginia
300 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Michael S. Aldrich Endowment in the Medical School..................... $ 10,528
Jay and Maryanne Alix Foundation, Southfield
for the Frank Moran Leadership Award Fund in the School of Business Administration.... 5,000
American Association of Orthodontists, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Graduate Orthodontics Residents Program in the School of Dentistry............. 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................  168,574
American Dental Association, Chicago, Illinois
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry......................... 37,237
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 75,707
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 21,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology, and in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................  112,673
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 66,247
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  15,000
Mary E. Arnheim Trust
for the Bentley  Historical Library................................................ 5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in the Institute for Social Research.............. 67,236
George W. Auch, III Trust
for the Class of 1949 Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................... 10,000
Warren R. Austin Estate
for the Warren R. Austin Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School................. 70,000
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering............ 152,462
Bank One Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 20,838
Katherine C. Bay Trust
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School.................................. 50,000
Harvey G. Behner, Sylvania, Ohio
for the Harvey and Joyce Behner Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies.............................................................5,000
Carlos R. Bell, Williamsburg, Virginia
for the Walter Lay Laboratory Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 5,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Endowed Fund in the Law School........................ 50,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
925 shares of various corporate common stock
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 27,179
Besser Company, Alpena
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.... 10,000
Bishop International Airport Authority, Flint
for  W U O M.................................................................  9,777
Donald M. Black, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Black Business Students Association, Ann Arbor
for the BBSA Alumni Scholarship and the Alfred E. Edwards Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration.............................................  10,000
Harry H. Blecker, Frankfort
for the Harry Blecker Scholarship in Chemistry at the University of Michigan-Flint....... 15,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and for support at the
University  of M ichigan-Dearborn...............................................  5,475
Keith E. Brauer, Indianapolis, Indiana
68 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,289


326




June Meeting, 2000


Briarwood Mall Office, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 5,400
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 100,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.......................... 5,000
Ford R. Bryan Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 10,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Ramon, California
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and for employee
matching gifts............................................................... 6,075
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
900 shares of CNA Surety Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Paul C. Boylan
Professorship and other support in the School of Music............................. 12,656
Coca Cola Bottling Company of Michigan, Lansing
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint..................................... 5,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 5,000
Compaq, Houston, Texas
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Compaq Computer Foundation, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts.............. 27,275
Computer Associates International, Inc., Hauppauge, New York
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,000
Ralph G. Conger, Detroit
500 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Ralph G. Conger Endowment in the University Library, for the Pauline M.
Conger Scholarship, and for the University Musical Society.......................... 37,328
Continental Teves, Inc., Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Craft Line, Inc., Hazel Park
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 5,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Livonia
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  15,000
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for support in  the School of Dentistry...........................................  10,000
Charles E. Dart Trust
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  45,370
Joel P. Davis, Boston, Massachusetts
275 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School.................................. 10,218
Dayton Foundation, Dayton, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Carla M. Dehmlow, Wilmette, Illinois
for the Dehmlow Discretionary Fund for History in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................. 5,000
Delphi Foundation, Troy
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Lurie Engineering Center, the Minority Engineering Program, and the General
Motors Foundation Computer Aided Engineering Network Fund in the College of
Engineering................................................................ 64,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for community and outreach program support in the School of Dentistry................ 50,000
Albin G. Dembowski, Bloomfield, Connecticut
1,500 shares of various corporate common stock for the Albin G. and Alice T.
Dembowski Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 99,244
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts............. 14,165
Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  15,700
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................... 200,000
Edison International, Rosemead, California
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,000


327




June Meeting, 2000


Susan M. Edwards Trust
for undergraduate student aid, in memory of Ralph T. Edwards and Thomas L. Edwards..... 40,000
Ernst & Young LLP, Dallas, Texas
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 5,400
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................................... 69,785
David S. Evans, Wilmette, Illinois
for the Louis Evans Program in History Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the  Arts............................................................... 27,000
ExxonMobil Foundation, Houston, Texas
for employee matching gifts................................................... 70,725
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
101 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School................................................. 7,455
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Detroit
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 15,000
Five Hundred Boulevard Association, Great Neck, New York
for the  University  Library..................................................... 5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration............................. 400,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the School
of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................. 95,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 25,000
Martin R. Frankel, Cos Cob, Connecticut
for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research................... 5,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,000
Ruth T. Freeman Trust
for the Ruth T. Freeman Endowment for Vision Research in the Medical School........ 945,000
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 46,521
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...................................... 5,250
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the Michigan Space Grant Consortium Fund in the College of Engineering........... 15,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Fund for Faculty Development in the
College  of Engineering....................................................... 30,000
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Scholarship in the School of Music and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for scholarships and fellowships in the
D ivision  of K inesiology......................................................  80,000
GTE Foundation, Irving, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,095
Guidant Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering and the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies............................................................ 50,000
Donald A. Hall, Jr., Danbury, New Hampshire
for the Jane Kenyon Endowed Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the   A rts...................................................................  20,000
Mark W. B. Harms, Bedminster, New Jersey
for the Mark Harms Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 10,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts................................................................. 5,000
Lee H. Hess, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Horizon Health Center Ltd. Partnership, Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the IMRA Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 44,352
International and American Associations for Dental Research, Alexandria, Virginia
for the Summer Research Program in the School of Dentistry......................... 12,000
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 50,000
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for program  support in the School of Social Work.................................. 16,000


328




June Meeting, 2000


Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 75,000
Hugh C. Johnson Estate
for the Hugh C. Johnson Library Endowment in the Law School.................... 272,617
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................. 164,419
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................. 337,349
Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 5,400
Harvey J. Kahn Estate
for the Alumni Association.................................................. 20,112
Dohn L. Kalmbach, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 20,000
Thaddeus S. Karpanty Estate
for support in  the  School of Dentistry...........................................  5,128
Lawrence Kazanowski, West Bloomfield
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for support in the Medical School...............................................  5,091
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  10,200
Kellogg's Corporate Citizenship Fund, Battle Creek
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,400
Kerrytown Concert House, Ann Arbor
for the Marian McPartland Jazz Piano Scholarship in the School of Music and for WCBN...... 5,789
George and Helen V. Kew Trust
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  15,000
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for  W U O M.................................................................  8,477
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals............................ 14,398
Lincoln M. Knorr Estate - Knorr Residuary Trust
for the ultimate benefit of the Lincoln M. Knorr Endowed Fund................... 29,949,440
Lincoln M. Knorr Estate - Knorr Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust
for the ultimate benefit of the Lincoln M. Knorr Endowed Fund.................... 3,299,279
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 31,175
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support of the Life Sciences Initiative and for employee matching gifts.............. 55,793
Litvak Foundation, Troy
for the Alan T. Ackerman Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the Law School.......... 20,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Peter J. Mather, Kalamazoo
536 shares of U.S. West, Inc., common stock
for the Mather Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Schools of Business Administration and Law.....................................  41,239
William B. Mead, Bethesda, Maryland
9 units of Capital Exchange Fund mutual fund
for history support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 5,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
251 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock
for the Paul C. Boylan Professorship in the School of Music......................... 13,021
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
251 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock
for the Paul C. Boylan Professorship in the School of Music......................... 13,021
Medtronic, Inc., Corporate Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 5,000
Mercer Management Consulting, Lexington, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Robert E. Meredith, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 8,300
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for the South Ferry Field Press Box Fund and other support in the Department
of  A thletics................................................................  14,850
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender and for employee
m atching  gifts..............................................................  61,000


329




June Meeting, 2000


Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 5,400
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 6,895
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School and for the Endowment for Discovery in the
Medical School............................................................. 15,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 8,375
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship.................................. 7,226
James H. Mulchay, St. Petersburg, Florida
100 shares of Oracle Corporation and
800 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Don Lund and Ray Fisher Baseball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.... 48,650
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 8,750
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................... 7,786
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Biophysics Research Division..................................  11,710
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Michigan Chapter, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 8,642
National Seating, Vonore, Tennessee
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute......... 5,000
NCR - San Diego, San Diego, California
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 92,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 50,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry.......... 31,400
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company-Milwaukee
Charitable Trust, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for em ployee m atching  gifts.................................................... 5,648
O'Connor, DeGrazia & Tamm, P.C., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Richard W. and Gail B. Odgers Family Gift Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public  P olicy................................................................  5,000
Olympus America, Inc., Melville, New York
for support in  the M edical School...............................................  5,000
Ortho Biotech, Inc., Raritan, New Jersey
for support in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 24,978
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 28,908
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy and
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 25,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  15,765
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 24,800
Presser Foundation, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music........................... 9,000
William Price, Perrysburg, Ohio
2,222 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Vascular Research Fund in the Medical School............................. 101,448
Quality Beer Sales, Fairfield, New Jersey
for women's soccer support in the Department of Athletics......................... 10,000
Rachor Family Foundation, Ltd., Flint
44 shares of various corporate common stock
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry and at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 6,211
Nathaniel S. Ritter Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Jeanne and Sanford Robertson Fund, San Francisco, California
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School
of Business Adm inistration................................................... 100,000


330




June Meeting, 2000


Richard B. Rogers Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 5,000
Helen B. Rutledge Estate
for WUOM................................................................ 7,800
Sallie Mae Student Loan Marketing Association, Washington, DC
for employee matching gifts................................................... 21,200
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School........... 50,000
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 19,200
Pauline F. Schneebeli Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 26,170
Sci Healthcare Group, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Kenneth V. Scobie, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Class of 1950 Endowed Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..... 5,000
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 5,000
Tadd and Nancy Seitz Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 5,000
Claude E. Shannon Trust
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for em ployee m atching  gifts...................................................  13,465
Raymond Signs, Jr., St. Johns
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 5,000
SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Stefan S. Fajans/SmithKline Beecham Professorship and other support in
the  M edical School........................................................  300,000
Solutia, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 10,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 23,772
Fred S. Spindel, Cliffside Park, New Jersey
100 shares of Nokia Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1950 Endowed Scholarship and other support in the School
of Business A dm inistration..................................................... 5,444
Sprint Foundation, Westwood Kansas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 30,270
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
500 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Robert G. Strachan
Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 24,600
Sullivan, Ward, Bone, Tyler & Asher, P.C., Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 7,500
Marian V.W. Swortzel Charitable Lead Trust
for the Marian Vaughn Williams Swortzel Fund.................................. 100,000
Christopher T. Tamer, Howell
for field hockey support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 5,000
G. Dekle Taylor, Jacksonville, Florida
615 shares of Sara Lee Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 9,513
Texas Instruments Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,350
John C. Tonkin, Daytona Beach, Florida
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation
for the Center for Community Service and Learning............................... 25,000
John R. and Georgene M. Tozzi Foundation, Ross, California
for the Alumni Society Board of Governor's Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration..............................................................  5,000
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......... 10,000
UBS AG, Stamford Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 15,000


331




June Meeting, 2000


Union Carbide Foundation, Inc., Danbury, Connecticut
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering........................ 5,000
United Audit Systems, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for the Laparoscopic Research and Education Fund in the Medical School............. 50,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment, the Frank Moran
Lectureship Fund, and special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..... 201,000
University of Michigan Student Organization, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for the University Hospitals................... 65,300
UNOCAL Foundation, El Segundo, California
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 12,900
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 5,000
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Venture Service Company, Fraser
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn........................................................  10,000
H. Carl Walker, Kalamazoo
5,831 shares of Carl Walker, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................  100,213
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for support in the School of Public Health........ 142,243
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for em ployee m atching  gifts................................................... 29,718
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for the University Hospitals......... 7,534
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
450 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship in the
College  of Engineering....................................................... 28,336
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems and the Transition
for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent........................................................... 150,000
Theodore R. Wellerson, Southbury, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  5,000
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for the Judy and Simeon Brinberg Travel Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  5,000
Gregory T. Wood, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 8,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......... 50,000
WPW, III Capital Ltd. Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the William G. Dow Distinguished Professorship in the College of Engineering........ 5,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Law  Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 50,000
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics, for the Lois and
Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in the School of Business Administration,
and for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the   A rts................................................................ 67,500
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Badger Fire Protection, Charlottesville, Virginia
fourteen fire extinguishers for the Solar Car Team
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the College of Engineering
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
equipment for the Media Union
Lucent Technologies, Inc., New Providence, New Jersey
twenty-five lasers with fiber pigtails for the College of Engineering
NuStep, Inc., Ann Arbor
exercise equipment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Fieldhouse


332




June Meeting, 2000


Richard Ritter, Bakersville, North Carolina
a glass sculpture for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Russell Equipment, Oakwood Village, Ohio
equipment for the College of Engineering
Waste Management of Ohio, Vickery, Ohio
scientific glassware for the University of Michigan-Dearborn natural sciences department
An additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value was received from the
following donor:
Steven M. Gasworth, Farmington Hills
Personnel Actions.      Provost Cantor highlighted the proposed appointment of
Professor Barry Rabe as interim dean of the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and appointments as distinguished university professors for Richard Crawford and Homer
Neal.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE.
Effective September 1, 2000
Avi-Yonah, Reuven S. Ph.D., Professor of Law, Law School
Duenyas, Izak, from Associate Professor of Operations Management to Professor, School of Business
Administration
Krishnan, Mayuram S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Computer and Information
Systems, with tenure, School of Business Administration
Mueller, Bruce A., Pharm.D., Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure and Chair, Department of Clinical
Services, College of Pharmacy, five year term, July 1, 2000
Silver, Edward A., Ed.D., Professor of Education, School of Education, June 1, 2000
Skinner, Christopher M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE.
Effective September 1, 2000
Astor, Ron A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, School of Education
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective July 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Amrine, Frederick R., Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, three-year term
Bailey, Charles W., Chair, Department of Social Work, University of Michigan-Flint School of
Education and Human Services, one-year term
Dunlop, Charles E. M., Chair, Department of Philosophy, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, one-year term
Francis, Anthony H., Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, one-year term
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Chair, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, three-year term
Scarnecchia, Suellyn, Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, Law School, two-year term, September 1,
2000
Vaziri, Mojtaba, Chair, Department of Computer Science, Engineering Services, and Physics, University
of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, three-year term


333




June Meeting, 2000


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, William J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
three-year term, July 1, 2000
Ames, James R., Chair, Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, three-year term, July 1, 2000
Ascione, Frank J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Pharmacy, five-year term, July 1,
2000
Baghdoyan, Helen A., Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, June 1, 2000
Blum, Joel D., Chair, Department of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 2000
Coward, James K., Chair, Department of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, five-year term,
July 1, 2000
Friesen, Lauren D., Chair, Department of Theatre, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, three-year term, September 1, 2000
Kantowitz, Barry H., Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, March 1, 2000
Kaufman, Martin, Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science, University of Michigan-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, May 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Kimeldorf, Howard A., Chair, Department of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 2000
Kirking, Duane M., Chair, Department of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
five-year term, July 1, 2000
Kunkel, Steven L., Associate Dean for Biological Sciences and Life Sciences Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, one-year term, September 1, 2000
Larson, Ronald G., Chair, Department of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, five-year term,
September 1, 2000
Lawand, Jamile, Chair, Department of Foreign Languages, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2000
Linderman, Jennifer J., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, June 1, 2000
Rabe, Barry G., Interim Dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, July 1, 2000
Richstone, Douglas O., Chair, Department of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 2000
Smith, David E., Chair, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, five-year term,
July 1, 2000
Was, Gary S., Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, five-year term, September 1, 2000
Waters, Christine M., from Interim Associate Dean to Associate Dean, University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, two-year term, July 1, 2000
LEAVE OF ABSENCES FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Ball, Ametha F., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, personal leave
extended, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Cullen, Julianne B., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Hunter, Andrea G., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, personal
leave extended, one-year term, September 1, 2000
Moss, Thylias, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus extended, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Takata, Azumi A., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1999; scholarly activity leave, January 1-December 31, 2000;
and research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
To, Cho-yee, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, research leave extended,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Weisbuch, Robert A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, personal leave extended, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


334




June Meeting, 2000


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS.
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing New Academic Administrative Position
Assistant Dean for International Education, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, July 1,
2000
Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, July 1,
2000
Establishing Professorships
Gilbert and Ruth Whitaker Professorship in Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
five-year renewable term, July 1, 2000
Millie Schembechler Professorship in Oncology, Medical School, five-year renewable term, July 1, 2000
Paul Boylan Collegiate Professorship in Music, School of Music, July 1, 2000
Peter M. Wege Endowed Professorship in Sustainable Systems, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, five-year renewable term, June 1, 2000
Raymond T. J. Perring Family Professorship in Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, five-year renewal term, July 1, 2000
Victor L. Bernard-Price WaterhouseCoopers LLP Collegiate Professorship in Accounting, School of
Business Administration, five-year renewable term, July 1, 2000
Naming Existing Professorships
Arthur W. Burks Collegiate Professorship in Information and Computer Science, School of Information,
five-year renewal term, September 1, 2000
Donald J. Lewis Collegiate Professorship in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year renewable term, September 1, 2000
Hans Kurath Collegiate Professorship in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year
renewable term, September 1, 2000
John Dewey Collegiate Professorship in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year
renewable term, September 1, 2000
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Avisar, Ilan, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Crawford, Richard, Hans T. David Distinguished University Professor of Musicology, School of Music,
September 1, 2000
Guck, Marion A., Louise Cuyler Collegiate Professor of Music, School of Music, five-year term,
September 1, 2000
Kaplan, Rachel, Samuel Trask Dana Professor of Environment and Behavior, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Khargonekar, Pramod P., Claude E. Shannon Professor of Engineering Science, College of Engineering,
five-year term, September 1, 2000
Mann, Ronald J., Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professor of Law, Law School, one year
term, July 1, 2000
Neal, Homer A., Samuel A. Goudsmit Distinguished University Professor of Physics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Perick, Martin S., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Witter, John A., George Willis Pack Professor of Forest Entomology, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Chambers, David L., III, Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, five-year term,
September 1, 2000
Levinson, Marjorie, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 2000
Regan, Donald H., William V. Bishop, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, five-year term,
September 1, 2000


335




June Meeting, 2000


Scott, Rebecca J., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 2000
Vining, Joseph, Harry Bums Hutchins Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, five-year term,
September 1, 2000
White, James B., L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, five-year term, September 1,
2000
Other Transactions
Gaughan, John F., II, Chair, Air Force Office Education Program, Office of the Provost, three-year term,
May 31, 2000
Harris, Amy S., Interim Director, Exhibit Museum of Natural History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, two-year term, July 1, 2000
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Art and Design Executive Committee
Cogswell, James A., Jr., reappointed, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2002
Marinaro, Louis M., reappointed, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2002
A. Alfred Taubman College ofArchitecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Marans, Robert W., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Jonathan Levine, term expired
Turner, James A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Linda N. Groat, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Kozlik, Rebecca H., undergraduate student representative, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Ethan S.
Johnson, graduated
MacAdam, Barbara, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Lawrence Root, term expired
Matthews, Andrew D., undergraduate student representative, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Ashley
Reichenbach, term expired
Waas, Anthony M., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice David J. Brophy, term expired
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Brooks, Sharon L., November 1, 2000-October 31, 2003, vice Jed J. Jacobson, term expired
May, Kenneth B., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Wendy E. Kerschbaum, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Astor, Ron A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Phyllis C. Blumenfeld, term expired
Lee, Valerie E., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Carla O'Connor
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Abriola, Linda M., reappointed, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2004
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Florida, Nancy K., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice David J. Brophy, term expired
Hume, Richard I., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Nancy E. Reame, term expired
Juster, Susan M., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Frederick Cooper, term expired
Mannheim, Bruce, January 1-August 31, 2001, vice Phoebe C. Ellsworth, on leave
Thouless, Michael D., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice James Penner-Hahn, term expired
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Ulrich, Dale A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Thomas R. George, term expired
Watkins, Bruce A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Bernard P. Maloy, term expired
Wolfe, Richard A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001, vice Charles T. Kuntzelman, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Becker, Jill B., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Susan A. Gelman, term expired
Walter, Lynn M., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Hugh L. Montgomery, term expired
Medical School Executive Committee
Todd, Robert F., III, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice H. David Humes, term expired
Williams, John A., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Benedict R. Lucchesi, term expired


336




June Meeting, 2000


School of Music Executive Committee
Herseth, Freda A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice George I. Shirley, term expired
Rowe, Ellen H., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Arthur Greene, term expired
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Helfand, Gloria E., July 1, 2000-May 31, 2002, vice Terry J. Brown, term expired
Rabe, Barry G., July 1, 2000-May 31, 2002, vice Steven L. Yaffee, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Bleske, Barry E., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Lynda S. Welage, term expired
Mehta, Varsha, reappointed July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Garabrant, David, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Sioban D. Harlow, term expired
Marrs, Carl F., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Brian A. Burt, term expired
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Executive Committee
Axelrod, Robert, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice David K. Cohen, term expired
Goldenrod, Edie N., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Sheldon H. Danziger, term expired
Simon, Carl P., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001, vice Richard L. Hall, on sabbatical leave
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Reisch, Michael S., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Kristine A. Siefert, term expired
Taylor, Robert J., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Berit Ingersoll-Dayton, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aiyer, Ananthakrisnan, B.A., Lecturer in Sociology, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Barron, Paul D., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
Benson, Heidi P., M.A., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30,
2000
Boyd, Melba J., D.A., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
Brennan, Mary F., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -August 31, 2000
Clyde, Paul S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Economy, School of Business Administration, three year
term, July 1, 2000
Cooke, James M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 17,2000-June 30,2001
Currey, Robin C., M.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -August 31, 2000
Davenport, Linda K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 17, 2000 -June 30, 2001
Dean, Carolyn A., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-31,
2000
Giri, Veda N., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one-year term, July 1, 2000
Greenberg, Grant M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, one-year term,
August 1, 2000
Harrast, Mark A., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, one-year
term, July 10, 2000
Kolias, Karen M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, May 15, 2000 -June 30, 2001
Li, Lawrence, B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
Nangia, Rina, M.B., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, one-year term, July 1, 2000
Nussenbaum, Brian, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, one-year term, July 1,
2000
Palen, Joseph J., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30,
2000


337




June Meeting, 2000


Pearce, Timothy A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -June 30, 2000
Ralph, Alexander L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
Rodziewicz, Catherine R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, May 1 -August 31,2000
Talpos, Sara K., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
Taylor, Deanne M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -June 30, 2000
Teeple, Scott D., M.M., Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Worden, Francis P., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one-year term, July 1, 2000
Yakel, Elizabeth, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, September 1, 2000 -May 31, 2003
Young, Irene A., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, one-year
term, July 1, 2000
Zwolan, Teresa A., Ph.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
one-year term, April 1, 2000
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Rao, Shanti, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one-year term, June 1, 2000
(previously reported effective May 15, 2000)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Nolta, Kathleen V., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
Nysenholc, Judith, Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1 -June 30, 2000
Pekok, Scott D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
three-year term, December 1, 1999
Rosenberg, Ilan, from Lecturer II to Lecturer III in Hebrew, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Becker, Marjorie C., Assistant Professor Emerita of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, one-year term, July 1, 2000
Getty, Ward, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, May 1-June 30, 2000
Krachenberg, A. R., Professor Emeritus of Management, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of
Management, May 1-August 31, 2000
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
McNamara, Leo F., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Almaguer, Tomas, Associate Professor of Sociology and American Culture, with tenure, and Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 2000


338




June Meeting, 2000


Ashe, Arthur J., III, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Benki, Jose R., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 30, 2001
Blass, Andreas R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Bulkey, Jonathan W., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Resource Policy, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environmental, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Cresti, Diana M., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Geronimus, Arline T., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gikandi, Simon E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Robert Hayden
Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Grandison, Kenrick I., Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environmental, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hales, Thomas C., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hanlon, Philip J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Hanson, Robert D., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hymes, Robert W., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Krasny, Robert, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Liu, J. Rebecca, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, extended sick leave, March
13-April 30, 2000
McSparran, Katherine M. F., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2001
Montgomery, Hugh L., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Nettles, Michael T., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Oyserman, Daphna R., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and
Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, one-year term, September 1, 2000
Parrish, Susan S., Assistant Professor of English Language Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Sacks, Richard D., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Sanders, T. Michael, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2000
Satterfield, Teresa L., Assistant Professor of Linguistics and Romance Languages, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Scodel, Ruth S., Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Sension, Roseanne J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Sharp, Robert R., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Shotwell, Jeffrey L., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1999-February 28, 2000
Simmons, Ruth S., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Storer, Thomas F., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1-May 31, 2001
Tanter, Raymond, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Terada, Rei M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000, and research
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001


339




June Meeting, 2000


Theodore, Alisse S., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Ward, John F., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Whittier-Ferguson, John A., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Sankey, Stuart, Professor of Music (Double Bass), with tenure, School of Music, May 1, 2000
Wagner, Warren H., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
January 8, 2000
Resigned
Bromberg, Howard J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 31, 2000
Christopher, Anne T., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
June 30, 2000
Cornejo-Krohn, Lourdes, Lecturer III in Spanish, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2000
Csorgo, Sandor, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
de los Cobos, Sergio, Assistant Professor of Music (Piano), School of Music, May 31, 2000
DeLay, Jeanine A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, May 31, 2000
Durust, Yasar, Lecturer II in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Ellis, Steffany G., Assistant Professor of Economics, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2000
Emerton, Matthew J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Greene, Douglas A., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, April 30, 2000
Haghighat, Shaghayegh, Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Hahn, Jinyong, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Hak, David J., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, May 31, 2000
Hershkowitz, Debra, Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Kolars, Joseph C., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, August 31,
1999
Lyon, Andrea D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 31, 2000
Miller, Gloria K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, June 30, 2000
Milne, Michael G., Lecturer III in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, March 31, 2000
Neylon, Michael K., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, April 30, 2000
O'Keefe, Barbara J., Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, June 30, 2000
Reaves, Natalie D., Assistant Professor of Economics, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2000
Schacter, Jane S., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, May 31, 2000
Scofield, Thomas L., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, May 31, 2000
Wandera, Ruth A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 9, 2000
Wilson, Anne E., Lecturer in Earth and Resource Science, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, June 30, 2000
Retired
Barritt, Loren S., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, May 31, 2000
Bartholomew, Lynne, Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2000
Froseth, James O., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2000
Guinn, Leslie W., Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2000
Ikuma, Hiroshi, Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Koenen, Ludwig, Professor of Papyrology, with tenure, and Herbert C. Youtie Distinguished University
Professor of Papyrology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Lee, Arthur A., Jr., Lecturer III in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2000


340




June Meeting, 2000


Lee, Denis C., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, June 30, 2000
Lewis, Donald J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Moore, Thomas E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Nystuen, John D., Professor of Urban Geography and Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 2000
Rosenwald, George C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Rycus, Mitchell J., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, May 31, 2000
Sandalow, Terrance, Professor of Law, with tenure, and Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, Law
School, May 31, 2000
Sanders, T. Michael, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Tanter, Raymond, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Ward, John F., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Term Completed
Allison, David W., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Brown, Kenneth R., Lecturer II in American Culture, December 31, 1999
Burling, Robbins, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics, and Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Cordes, Eugene H., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, May 31,
2000
Dontchev, Assen L., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
2000
Gelca, Razvan, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Goniulea, Nicolae, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Goodison, Loma G., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 1999
Granzow-De La Cerda, Inigo, Lecturer II in Biology, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Gupta, Sanjiv, Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Jackson, Deborah D., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Khan, Halimur R., Lecturer II in Russian Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
2000
Lundin, Deanne C., Lecturer II in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Morris, Ellen G., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
2000
Russell, Rachel M., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
1999
Seitzer, Patrick O., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
1999
Steinhoff, William R., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Wright, John W., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted retirement memoirs for
23 faculty members.
Loren S. Barritt, Ph.D., professor of education in the School of Education, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 2000, following thirty-six years of service.
Professor Barritt received his A.B. degree from Blackburn College in 1958 and his
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Indiana University in 1961 and 1964, respectively. He
joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Education in 1964 as an
assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and professor in
1973. During the 1973-74 academic year, Professor Barritt held a Senior Fulbright


341




June Meeting, 2000


Lectureship at the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands.  He worked at the
Netherlands Institute for Basic Research on a visitors grant in 1978-79 and was awarded
a research grant by the Dutch Ministry of Education in 1985-86.
Professor Barritt served on a number of committees within the School of Education.
At the University level, he served on the Budget Priorities Committee, the Faculty
Senate Assembly, and was vice president of the University chapter of the AAUP. He
taught courses in educational psychology and human development, and his strong
mentoring skills were highly valued by students.  Professor Barritt also worked
extensively in the community, as evidenced by his involvement in the planning and
maintenance of the New School in Ann Arbor. Through his dedication to the art and
science of teaching, Professor Barritt brought together a diverse group of people-from
the University, from the public schools, from the city of Ann Arbor, from as far as the
Netherlands-and encouraged them to think about teaching in new and exciting ways
and to share those thoughts and ideas with each other and with the community.
Professor Barritt maintained memberships in the American Educational Research
Association, the American Anthropological Association, the Netherlands America
University League, and the American Association of University Professors. His articles
appeared in Review of Education, Phenomenology and Pedagogy, American Educational
Research Journal, and College Composition and Communication, among others.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Loren S. Barritt
professor emeritus of education.
Lynne K. Bartholomew, associate professor of music (piano), retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 2000.
A native of Pennsylvania, Professor Bartholomew received her B.Mus. degree in
1963 and her M.Mus. degree in 1965, both from the University of Michigan. She
received the University's James L. Babcock Award in 1963, John Wolaver Award in
1965, and was elected to Pi Kappa Lambda and Phi Kappa Phi societies. During
1965-66, she studied as the Frieburg Hochschtile fur Musik in Germany on a Fulbright
grant and later undertook advanced studies at the University of Southern California. She
joined the faculty as a lecturer in music in 1966 and was promoted to instructor in 1968,
assistant professor in 1969, and associate professor in 1976.
Professor Bartholomew spent many summers as a teacher in the All-State Piano
Program at Interlochen and served there as director of the University division in the
summers of 1985 and 1986. She served on numerous committees concerned with
affirmative action, minority recruitment, and fundraising and was a member of the
school's executive committee from 1982-85. She held the post coordinator of the piano
department from 1988 until her retirement.
During her forty-year association with the University of Michigan School of Music,
first as a student and then as a faculty member, Professor Bartholomew has been
conscientious, hardworking, loyal, and dedicated to making the school a special place in
which to study and to learn. Her students have revered her with good cause.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Lynne K. Bartholomew
associate professor emerita of music (piano).
John H. D'Arms, Ph.D., Gerald F. Else Professor of Humanities, professor of
classical studies, professor of history in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
former dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, will retire from active
faculty status on June 30, 2000.
Professor D'Arms received his B.A. degree from Princeton University in 1956, his
B.A. degree from Oxford University in 1959, and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard
342




June Meeting, 2000


University in 1965. He came to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in
classical studies in 1965 and was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and professor
in 1972. He was appointed to the Gerald F. Else professorship in 1983 and was named
professor of history in 1986. He served two terms as chair of the Department of
Classical Studies, from 1972-76 and from 1980-85. He served as dean of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies from 1985-95 and vice-provost for academic
affairs from 1990-95.
Professor D'Arms research focuses on reconstructing the social world of the
Roman upper classes. In his many publications, he makes abundant use of primary
sources to demonstrate the important information hidden behind a facade of propriety.
Thus, in his first book, which examined the privileged life of Roman aristocrats in their
luxurious villas around the Bay of Naples, he revealed the elaborate social and economic
interconnections between these Roman nobles, their dependents, and the local
aristocracies of Campanian cities. In his second book, he showed that despite their
expressed disdain for those who assembled wealth through trade, most Roman aristocrats
participated, through their slaves and freedmen, in commercial activities that provided
them with important sources of income and influence.
Professor D'Arms has served as president of the Association of Graduate Schools
for the AAU (1989-90) and as member of the National Council on the Humanities. He is
currently president of the American Council of Learned Societies. He is a fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the American Philosophical
Society.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming John H. D'Arms the
Gerald F. Else professor emeritus of humanities, professor emeritus of classical studies,
professor emeritus of history, and dean emeritus.
Edward S. Davidson, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer
science in the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
2000.
Professor Davidson received his B.A. degree from Harvard University in 1961, his
M.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1962, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Illinois in 1968. From 1962-65, he was an engineer at Honeywell EDP,
and from 1965-68 he was a researcher in the Digital Computer Laboratory at the
University of Illinois. He was an assistant professor of electrical engineering at Stanford
University from 1968-73 and was a faculty member at the University of Illinois from
1973-87, achieving the level of professor of computer science in 1984. He served as
president of Illinois Computer Research, Inc., from 1981-87, associate director of the
Center for Supercomputing Research and Development at the University of Illinois from
1985-87, and executive vice president of Paracomp Technologies from 1986-87.
Professor Davidson joined the University of Michigan as professor of electrical
engineering and computer science and chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science in 1988. He served as the director of the Center for Parallel
Computing from 1994-97 and was named associate chair of the computer science and
engineering division in 1997.
Professor Davidson is internationally respected in the field of computer science,
having made significant contributions in the areas of computer architecture, design, and
performance analysis.  He helped establish the University of Michigan's Center for
Parallel Computing in 1992 and was the primary architect of the mission statement and its
expansive vision. His publication record includes 4 books or monographs and 78 refereed
papers. Professor Davidson received a prestigious Eckert-Mauchly Award jointly from the


343




June Meeting, 2000


ACM and IEEE Computer Society in 2000, as well as the Taylor L. Booth Award in 1996
and the Harry Goode Memorial Award in 1992 from the IEEE Computer Society. He
received the EECS Department Research Excellence Award in 1994 and the College of
Engineering Excellence in Research Award in 1995. He became a Golden Core member of
the IEEE in 1996 and is listed in American Men of Science and Who 's Who in Technology.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edward S. Davidson
professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
William  R. Farrand, Ph.D., professor of geological sciences, director of the
Exhibit Museum, and curator, Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 2000.
Professor Farrand received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in 1955 and 1956,
respectively, from The Ohio State University and his Ph.D. degree in 1960 from the
University of Michigan. From 1960-64, he was on the faculty of Columbia University
and in 1964-65 he was a visiting professor at the University of Strasbourg in France. He
joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1965 as an assistant professor and
was promoted to associate professor in 1967 and professor in 1974. He was named
curator in the Museum of Anthropology in 1975 and director of the Exhibit Museum of
Natural History in 1993.
Professor Farrand's early work centered on the glacial history of Michigan and the
American/Canadian Midwest. He studied landforms and their evolution, the crustal
rebound that occurs after the ice sheet load is removed from the earth's surface, and the
history of the glacial advances and retreats. He was among the first to apply the
techniques of radiocarbon dating to elucidate the timing of some of these events. Much of
Professor Farrand's scholarship lay at the interface between geology and archaeology; in
fact, his career helped to define the field of geoarchaeology. He was particularly
interested in the sedimentology, stratigraphy, and paleoclimatology of archaeological and
early man sites around the Mediterranean and has spent extensive periods of time working
on sites in Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Israel, Turkey, Greece, and elsewhere in Africa and the
Far East.
Professor Farrand taught courses at all levels and assisted with directing and
teaching in the department's summer field program at Camp Davis, Wyoming. He
published more than 120 papers, has served on the editorial boards of 4 journals, and has
been president and secretary of the American Quaternary Association. Professor Farrand
is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and has been
honored with the Archaeological Geology Award of the Geological Society of America.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William R. Farrand professor
emeritus of geological sciences and curator emeritus.
James 0. Froseth, Ph.D., professor of music (music education), retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Froseth received his B.Mus. degree in 1959 from the University of
Michigan. Returning to his native Wisconsin, he taught in the Kenosha public schools
from 1959-65, concurrently studying at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee where
he received his M.S. degree in 1965. He then matriculated at the University of Iowa
where he received his Ph.D. degree in 1968. During 1967-68, he was director of bands
and assistant professor of music at Wisconsin State University in Whitewater and from
1968-71 he was assistant professor of music and education at the University of Wisconsin
at Madison. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as associate professor of
music (music education) in 1971 and was promoted to professor of music in 1975.


344




June Meeting, 2000


Professor Froseth achieved national prominence as an authority on how elementary
and secondary students learn music and on the mental and physical coordination skills
necessary to the playing of instruments. He is the author of dozens of publications on
those topics and has accepted invitations for lectures, seminars, and workshops at many
state music conventions, at universities in Texas, Florida, and Illinois, and internationally
in London, Rome, and Saskatoon.
Within the School of Music, Professor Froseth served on the Council of
Departmental Representatives, as chair of the music education department, and was for
many years in charge of the annual Midwestern Conference on School Instrumental and
Vocal Music.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James O. Froseth
professor emeritus of music (music education).
Leslie Guinn, professor of music (voice), retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 2000.
A Texan by birth, Professor Guinn received his B.Mus. degree from Northwestern
University in 1957 and was named "outstanding performer of the year"-a prophetic
award, the promise of which was magnificently fulfilled in his subsequent career. After
service in the U.S. Army Chorus from 1952-62, he launched his professional singing
career under the aegis of artists' management associations in New York City from
1963-70. He came to the University of Michigan as assistant professor of music in 1971
and was promoted to associate professor in 1974 and professor in 1979.
During the summers from 1979-92, Professor Guinn was a teacher and performer at
the Aspen (Colorado) Music Festival. He has served as chair of the voice department
faculty, was director of the School of Music's Division of Vocal Arts from 1986-99, was
elected to four terms on the School of Music Executive Committee, and fulfilled
numerous other responsibilities of influence and impact upon the school.
A model of what the "artist-teacher" should be, Professor Guinn continued to
perform frequently as a soloist with many major symphony orchestras including those of
Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia. He also made recordings (mainly for Nonesuch) that
received critical acclaim ("Record of the Year" Award from Stereo Review; "Grammy"
nomination for best chamber music recording; named to High Fidelity magazine's list of
best American music on record) and appeared at major summer festivals including the
Casals, Marlboro, and Tanglewood concurrent with his faculty role. His legacy, in
addition to significant performances and recordings, includes a long list of former
students, some of whom have achieved prominence in recitals, oratorio, musical theatre,
and teaching, and all of whom have benefited by the example of his expertise,
seriousness of purpose, generosity, and personal grace.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Leslie Guinn professor
emeritus of music (voice).
Hiroshi Ikuma, Ph.D., professor of biology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Ikuma received his B.Sc. degree from Kobe University, Kobe, Japan, in
1956 and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1958 and 1962,
respectively.  From  1962-65, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of
Pennsylvania. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as an assistant
professor in 1965. He was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in
1975.
At Harvard, Professor Ikuma worked with Kenneth V. Thimann, a pioneer in the
development of modern developmental plant physiology, carrying out groundbreaking
345




June Meeting, 2000


studies on the effects of light, other environmental factors, and plant hormones on lettuce
seed germination. Working with Walter Bonner at the University of Pennsylvania, he
was among the first investigators to describe the properties of carefully isolated plant
mitochondria. At the University of Michigan, Professor Ikuma's research has emphasized
discovery and characterization of factors that regulate plant growth and development.
He continued his pioneering work on the properties of plant mitochondria, focusing on
energy coupling reactions and on the metabolism of organic acids in the organelle. He
also initiated new research programs that have revealed new roles of light, temperature,
and hormones in regulation of the complex series of metabolic events that culminate in
seed germination.
Within the Department of Biology, Professor Ikuma has played a leading role in
teaching. He developed new laboratory exercises for introductory courses and for the
department's flagship plant physiology offering, which he also taught with distinction for
a number of years. Likewise, his contributions to the department's one-term, accelerated
introductory course made this a very popular first-year offering for entering
undergraduates with prior course work in biology. He served as associate chair for
undergraduate curriculum from 1983-87.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Hiroshi Ikuma professor
emeritus of biology.
Ludwig Koenen, Ph.D., Herbert C. Youtie Distinguished University Professor of
Papyrology and professor of papyrology in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Koenen received his doctorate in classics at the University of Cologne in
1957 and held various academic posts at the University of Cologne until 1975, when he
came to the University of Michigan as professor of papyrology. He was named to a
collegiate professorship in 1989 and to a distinguished University professorship in
papyrology in 1995.
Professor Koenen is among a handful of classical scholars internationally acclaimed
as editors and interpreters of the texts which have come down to us on Egyptian papyrus;
he is widely acknowledged as the most distinguished papyrologist active in North
America. A prolific scholar, Professor Koenen is admired for his scholarly range and for
his ability to place particular texts in their wider literary, social, historical, and
intellectual contexts. His publications on the Mani Codex have virtually rewritten the
history of manichaeism by establishing the primarily Judaeo-Christian background of
Mani and his theology. He has published literary papyri and has done important work on
the cultural interaction between Greeks and Egyptians in Ptolemaic and Roman Egypt.
Most recently, he has organized an international team to decipher and conserve a group
of carbonized papyri found in a Byzantine church at Petra in Jordan.
Professor Koenen served as chair of the Department of Classical Studies from
1985-94.  In 1995, he was awarded the John H. D'Arms Faculty Award for
Distinguished Graduate Mentoring in the Humanities and was appointed Henry Russel
Lecturer, the highest honor the University can bestow upon a faculty member. Professor
Koenen is cofounder and coeditor of the Zeitschrift fur Papyrologie und Epigraphik,
which has published 120 volumes since 1967. He was elected president of the American
Philological Association and is an elected member of the American Philological
Association (1992) and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1993).
Internationally, he was elected corresponding member in the Nordrhein-Westfalische
Akademie der Wissenschaften (1998).


346




June Meeting, 2000


The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Ludwig Koenen the
Herbert C. Youtie Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Papyrology and
professor emeritus of papyrology.
Lubomyr M. Kowal, Ph.D., professor of economics, College of Arts and Sciences,
University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1999.
Professor Kowal received his B.A. degree from St. Francis College in 1955, his
M.B.A. degree from the University of Detroit in 1957, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Illinois in 1965. He joined the economics department at the University of
Michigan-Flint in 1966 as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1970 and professor in 1976.
A respected scholar in the fields of history of economic thought, comparative
economic systems, and microeconomic analysis, Professor Kowal has truly distinguished
himself as a specialist in Ukrainian economy. Professor Kowal enhanced greatly our
understanding of the development of economic and political changes in Eastern Europe.
Professor Kowal's students held him in high regard for his teaching effectiveness.
They viewed him as an energetic, stimulating, and exceptional teacher. An outstanding
contributor and a productive colleague at every level of the academic community,
Professor Kowal served effectively as a member of many committees and provided
valuable leadership as chair of the economics department for six years.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service to the University of Michigan-Flint by naming Lubomyr M. Kowal professor
emeritus of economics.
Denis C. Lee, professor of art in the School of Art and Design, will retire from
active faculty status on June 30, 2000.
Professor Lee received his B.A. degree from Indiana University in 1961 and his
Masters Certificate from the School of Medical Illustration at the University of Illinois in
1964. He joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor of art in 1969 and
was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and professor in 1982. Beginning in 1973,
Professor Lee also held appointments in the Medical School as associate professor and
then professor (1982) of medical and biological illustration and as assistant professor of
medical plastic surgery sculpture from 1978-89.
Professor Lee is a talented medical illustrator who has received national and
international recognition for his accurate and innovative illustrations. His interest in
alleviating human disfigurement also led to pioneering work in medical sculpture and the
development of prosthetics which produced extraordinary advances in the field. He was
at the forefront of new developments in cosmetic prostheses, using innovative
techniques, new materials and casting procedures to improve cosmetic prosthetic
appliances. A skilled artist, dedicated teacher, and vigorous researcher, in 1971 Professor
Lee initiated and established a medical sculpture unit. Its purpose was to supply
disfigured patients with external prosthetic appliances and implants as a means of
artificial cosmetic reconstruction. This unit attracted many patients to the University of
Michigan Hospitals to receive the benefit of his talent.
Professor Lee has served as director of the graduate program in medical and
biological illustration since 1986. In this capacity, he has trained artists, medical
students, and residents in the plastic surgery section. A renowned medical artist,
Professor Lee's illustrations have appeared in numerous books and journals and are used
in instructional programs at several institutions. His work has been exhibited widely and
he has received many prestigious awards and commissions. He is a fellow of the


347




June Meeting, 2000


Association of Medical Illustrators and past president and member of the Board of
Governors of the Association of Medical Sculptors.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Denis C. Lee professor
emeritus of art.
Donald J. Lewis, Ph.D., professor of mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Lewis received his B.S. degree from the College of St. Thomas in 1946
and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1949 and 1950,
respectively. From 1950-52, he was an instructor at The Ohio State University and in
1952-53 he was an NSF fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton. From
1953-61, he was a faculty member at Notre Dame University. He joined the University
of Michigan as an associate professor in 1961 and was promoted to professor in 1963.
Professor Lewis served as chair of the Department of Mathematics from 1984-94, with a
break of one year to visit the Institute for Advanced Study.
Professor Lewis' research lies in an area of number theory concerned primarily
with diophantine problems and encompasses the theory of algebraic number fields and
function fields and arithmetic geometry. It is characteristic especially of his earlier work
that he was the first to obtain any kind of result on a problem, and that this decisive
progress cleared the way for subsequent developments. The work in his thesis
concerning the local solubility of cubic forms, however, remains definitive. Also
noteworthy is a series of papers produced in collaboration with Harold Davenport which
laid the foundation for the investigation of a number of diophantine problems, especially
diagonal variants. He is the author of 55 research papers and a number of survey papers,
and he directed 24 doctoral theses.
From 1995-99, Professor Lewis was based in Washington, D.C., as the director of
the Division of Mathematical Sciences of the Natural Science Foundation. He has
received numerous awards, including a Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award from
the University in 1978 and an Alexander von Humboldt Preis Award in 1980. He was
awarded the Distinguished Public Service Award of the American Mathematical Society
in 1995 in recognition of his many contributions to mathematics research and education.
The Regents now salute this valued faculty member by naming Donald J. Lewis
professor emeritus of mathematics.
Thomas E. Moore, Ph.D., professor of biology and curator of insects, Museum of
Zoology, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000, after a most productive
career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Illinois, Professor Moore received his B.S. (1951), M.S. (1952), and
Ph.D. degrees from the University of Illinois. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in zoology and curator of insects in 1956. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1966. He
served as director of the Exhibit Museum from 1988-93.
Professor Moore's research interests include systematic, evolutionary, and
ecological relationships of cicadas (insects) of the world, especially their acoustical
behavior in nature.   He also researched periodicity and associated behavior,
development, nature of sound-producing and sound-receiving structures, species-specific
physiology of acoustic nerves, and long-term interactions among animals and plants and
soils. More recently, he studied functional morphology and neural control of live insect
robots (biobots) as carriers of environmental sensors and their MEMS-engineering and
artificial intelligence applications. He had extensive field experience in the United
States, Mexico, Central America, and South America.


348




June Meeting, 2000


Professor Moore was a member of a dozen state, regional, national, and
international organizations. He served on the board of directors and the executive
committee of the Organization for Tropical Studies and has been a member of the Royal
Entomological Society of London since 1980. Locally, he served as a Washtenaw
County representative for the Huron River Watershed Council 1987-94 and as an LS&A
college representative to the University of Michigan High School Accreditation
Advisory Committee from  1987-92.  He was on the executive board, Michigan
Conference, of the American Association of University Professors from 1996-98 and
was president of the University of Michigan chapter from 1996-98.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Thomas E. Moore professor emeritus of biology and curator emeritus of insects.
Eliana Moya-Raggio, lecturer III in Spanish in the Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Ms. Moya-Raggio received a degree in Spanish language and literature from the
University of Chile, Santiago, in 1955. She taught at the University of Concepcion (in
Chile) from 1957-63, at The Ohio State University from 1964-66, and at Eastern
Michigan University in 1968. She joined the faculty of the Residential College as a
lecturer in 1974 and received her M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1975.
From 1976-94, she served as head of the Spanish language program in the
Residential College. Her system of teaching was rooted in the conviction that language
can truly be learned and understood only in its artistic, social, historical, and political
context. By integrating into her teaching of Spanish a genuine understanding of the
cultures of Latin Americans and of North Americans of Hispanic origin, she created a
forum for students to develop a deep understanding and appreciation of the diversity of
cultures and societies. Her innovative contributions turned the Residential College
Spanish program into an extremely successful, proficiency-oriented, language immersion
experience enabling many generations of Residential College students to go forth
confidently and knowledgeably into the Spanish-speaking world.
Over the years, Ms. Moya-Raggio also taught numerous courses in English on
Latin American and Latino/a culture and literature, both in the Residential College and in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. She has been committed to diversifying
the curriculum by teaching about marginalized groups and nontraditional forms of
expression.  Especially valued by students has been her co-teaching of a Residential
College course on cultural confrontations in the arts and her teaching of an upper-level
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts course on the Latina both of which she was
instrumental in creating. She also participated for many years in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts' mentoring program for minority students and in a
variety of intergroup relations projects. And she has been instrumental in bringing to
campus a large number of distinguished Latin American writers, educators, musicians,
and human rights activists.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Eliana Moya-Raggio
lecturer III emerita in Spanish.
John D. Nystuen, Ph.D., professor of urban geography and planning in the A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Nystuen received his A.B. degree in 1953 from the University of
California at Berkeley and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1957 and 1959, respectively,
from the University of Washington in Seattle. He came to the University of Michigan as


349




June Meeting, 2000


an instructor in 1959 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate professor
in 1964, and professor in 1968. He also held visiting positions at the University of
Minnesota and Northwestern University during spring and summer sessions from
1963-67.
Within the Urban and Regional Planning Program, Professor Nystuen has taught
classes in transportation and land use analysis, nutrition and health planning, global
environmental change, GIS, and theoretical/mathematical geography. He has chaired
more than 70 dissertation committees and been an active member of numerous program,
college, University, and community committees. A dedicated scholar and researcher,
Professor Nystuen has served on countless teams and as a consultant or lecturer on social
issues and geographic systems worldwide, with particular expertise in hunger and
nutrition, mother/child welfare and family planning, low-income housing, land-use, and
transportation. His work spanned the globe, taking him to China, South and East Africa,
Indonesia, Columbia, South and East Asia, Turkey, Nepal, and Mexico.
Professor Nystuen is president of the Thunen Society North American Division.
He is a member of the editorial board of the Institute of Mathematical Geography
(ImaGe), is on the board of directors of the Community Systems Foundation, and is a
member of the Association of American Geographers and the Regional Science
Association.
The Regents salute this distinguished educator and scholar by naming John D.
Nystuen professor emeritus of urban geography and planning.
Consuela M. Provost (Sybil Klein), A.D., professor of English and theatre, College
of Arts and Sciences, University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1999.
Professor Provost received her B.S. degree from Xavier University in 1958, her
M.A. degree from Louisiana State University in 1972, and her A.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1975.   She joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan-Flint as an assistant professor in 1972. She was promoted to associate
professor in 1979 and professor in 1988.
A multifaceted dramatist, musician, poet, teacher, and scholar of Louisiana Creole
art and culture, Professor Provost largely created the field of Creole studies through her
early publications and presentations. Her activities would comprise at least three careers.
She was the author of nine produced plays (including a "Historical Revue With
Music" covering the history of Flint) and explored the uses of drama to teach basic subjects
in the public schools. She developed a number of courses in both the theatre and English
departments, including a playwriting workshop and courses covering African American
and ethnic American literatures that continue to be staples in the English curriculum.
Professor Provost won a Hopwood award for one of several published collections
of poetry that drew on her Louisiana Creole roots. Using her talents as a researcher and
musician, she collected and documented the Creole folk songs that are featured in one of
her most recent albums. An outstanding and inspirational teacher, she introduced many
Flint students to cultures beyond their own at the same time that she lectured
internationally on the subject of Louisiana Creole culture and continued her performance
career.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her dedicated
service by naming Consuela M. Provost professor emerita of English and theatre.
George C. Rosenwald, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.


350




June Meeting, 2000


A native of Vienna, Professor Rosenwald received his B.A. degree from City
College of New York in 1953 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Yale University in
1954 and 1958, respectively. After a postdoctoral research fellowship at Yale, he came to
the University of Michigan in 1958 as an instructor in the Department of Psychology and
senior psychologist and later assistant director of the Psychological Clinic. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1965, and professor in
1971. From 1962-64, he was a lecturer in social relations at Harvard University and
assistant chief of the Clinical Psychology Service at the Massachusetts Mental Health
Center. From 1968-69, he was a Fulbright lecturer at J. W. Goethe Universitat in Frankfurt.
Professor Rosenwald made diverse contributions to the fields of personality theory,
psychopathology, and clinical psychology, from experimental studies of psychological
defenses to discussions of psychodiagnosis and assessment to critiques of prevailing
theoretical and empirical paradigms. His broad-ranging scholarship and rich array of
interests extended well beyond psychology, to Thomas Mann, Shakespeare, structuralism,
semiotics, creativity, philosophy of science, and social science methodology. While he
published valued experimental papers, he was an articulate and compelling proponent for
qualitative, phenomenological, narrative, multiple-case, and life-history research. His
students learned well his admonition that they not mistake counting for thinking and
found such lessons couched in the context of the philosophy and history of science hsen rather
than in easy attacks on vulgar operationism.
Professor Rosenwald authored two books and numerous journal articles, chapters, and
reviews; he also served on a number of editorial boards. He was a devoted and deeply
respected mentor to several generations of students at the University of Michigan, a much
sought out speaker at national and international conferences, and an organizer himself of
several richly received conferences, including the memorable 1994 conference
"Psychoanalysis Among the Disciplines."
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming George C. Rosenwald
professor emeritus of psychology.
Mitchell J. Rycus, Ph.D., professor of urban planning in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 2000.
Professor Rycus received his B.S. degree (1958), M.S. degrees in mathematics
(1961) and physics (1965), and a Ph.D. degree in urban and regional planning (1976), all
from the University of Michigan. He was a professor of physical science at Oakland
Community College in 1977 and adjunct assistant professor in the Environmental
Studies Program at the University of Michigan Ann Arbor and Flint campuses in
1977-78. From 1977-80, he was a research associate at the Mental Health Research
Institute. He was appointed assistant professor in 1980 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1983 and professor in 1989. Professor Rycus served as chair of the Urban
and Regional Planning Program from 1986-92.
For his outstanding contributions as an educator, in 1983 Professor Rycus received
the University of Michigan Faculty Recognition Award. He was a visiting scholar at the
United Nations Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs in Vienna,
Austria; a visiting professor at the Japan Center for Michigan Universities and at the
University of Tokyo; and project manager for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
water security project. Professor Rycus is a member of the American Collegiate Schools
of Planning, the American Planning Association, and Architects and Planners for Social
Responsibility.  In addition, he served as vice chair of the Washtenaw County
Metropolitan Planning Commission.


351




June Meeting, 2000


Professor Rycus has done extensive research on urban security issues. Over the last
15 years, he has served as co-director of a $3+ million research project, employing a large
number of faculty and students. Professor Rycus was a principal investigator for city of
Detroit Water and Sewage Department research projects, developing security planning
and implementation. He has been extensively interviewed on issues of security by
newspapers and by TV and radio stations. He has authored numerous articles on crime
reduction and urban terrorism and is currently co-authoring a book on crime and
community planning.
The Regents salute this distinguished educator by naming Mitchell J. Rycus
professor emeritus of urban planning.
Terrance Sandalow, J.D., professor or law, the Edson R. Sunderland Professor of
Law, and former dean of the Law School, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
2000, after an extraordinary career of teaching, administration, and research.
A native of Chicago, Professor Sandalow received his A.B. and J.D. degrees from
the University of Chicago in 1954 and 1957, respectively. After graduating from law
school, he served as a law clerk for Judge Sterry W. Waterman of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and for Justice Potter Stewart of the United
States Supreme Court. He then returned to Chicago, where he practiced law from
1959-61. Professor Sandalow began his academic career in 1961 at the University of
Minnesota Law School. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan Law School
in 1966 as professor of law. He served as dean of the Law School from 1978-87 and was
named Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law in 1987. He is a fellow of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Professor Sandalow was a respected and influential scholar in the fields of
constitutional law, constitutional theory, and local government law.  He was the
co-author of a path-breaking casebook, Government in Urban Areas. His articles on the
role of the Supreme Court, affirmative action, federalism, constitutional interpretation,
and judicial review  are classics.  As a teacher, Professor Sandalow  stimulated
generations of the best Michigan law students to produce their finest work. His "Federal
Courts" class and his seminars were legendary occasions for learning. Both as dean and
as a faculty member, Professor Sandalow created a tradition of serious inquiry that is
responsible for the intellectual eminence of the University of Michigan Law School in
the last quarter of the twentieth century.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his dedicated
service to the University of Michigan by naming Terrance Sandalow the Edson R.
Sunderland Professor of Emeritus of Law, professor emeritus of law and dean emeritus.
T. Michael Sanders, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31,2000.
Following service in the U.S. Navy at the end of World War II, Professor Sanders
received his A.B. degree from Harvard College in 1948 and his M.S. (1951) and Ph.D.
(1954) degrees from Columbia University. His dissertation research included observation
of the microwave spectrum of hydroxyl, the first free radical studied in this way. From
1953-55, Professor Sanders was a postdoctoral researcher at Stanford University, where he
measured, for the first time, the Lamb Shift in unstable, excited states of the hydrogen
atom. From 1955-65, he served on the faculty of the University of Minnesota. He came to
the University of Michigan in 1963 as a visiting professor and was named professor in
1965.
At the University of Minnesota, Professor Sanders' research interests moved from
atomic and molecular physics to solid-state and low-temperature physics. His research
352




June Meeting, 2000


on free electrons in helium gas at low temperature provided the first evidence of an
unusual electron "bubble" state, previously suggested in liquid helium. At Michigan, he
continued his research on helium at low temperature and began studying the newly
discovered quantized vortices. This research culminated in the first detection of single,
quantized vortex lines in a rotating vessel of superfluid liquid helium. Other work
included a very high-resolution measurement of the surface tension of liquid helium near
the temperature at which it becomes superfluid.
Professor Sanders has been involved in the development of several new physics
courses.  These popular courses, designed for the nonscientist enthusiast, include
"Controversial Scientific Claims and Discoveries," "Everyday Physics," and "The
Physicists and the Bomb." He has served on the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts Executive Committee, the Senate Assembly, and on the physics department's
executive committee. He has been a visitor at the University of California at Berkeley,
Bell Telephone Laboratories, Cornell University, and Universita di Firenze and has held
fellowships from the Alfred P. Sloan and John Simon Guggenheim Foundations.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming T. Michael Sanders
professor emeritus of physics.
Raymond Tanter, Ph.D., professor of political science, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Tanter received his B.A. degree from Roosevelt University in 1961 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Indiana in 1964. After teaching at
Northwestern University from 1964-67, he joined the University of Michigan faculty as
associate professor of political science in 1967. He was promoted to professor in 1972.
Throughout his career, Professor Tanter has been an active scholar and a vigorous,
popular teacher who combined research and publication with a broad-ranging career in
public service. Professor Tanter's scholarly work has concentrated on issues of international
security and foreign policy. He has written a number of books. He has also received
Fulbright fellowships and has been a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington. In 1975, he was
scholar-in-residence at the American Embassy, Tokyo, lecturing on petroleum
interruption scenarios.  His government appointments include deputy director of
behavioral sciences at the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the U.S. Department
of Defense; member of the Civilian Executive Panel, Chief of Naval Operations; member
of the National Security Council Staff (1981-82); and personal representative of the
secretary of defense to arms control talks in Madrid, Helsinki, Stockholm, and Vienna
(1983-84). He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and its Economic
Sanctions Task Force.
Professor Tanter taught graduate and undergraduate courses in the area of
international security and also taught a regular, large lecture course on the Arab-Israeli
conflict. In the latter, he used innovative new approaches to teaching, including most
notably an interactive simulation that involved students in research and role playing. In
all his teaching, Professor Tanter was also able to use his Washington experience to
enrich his courses and to help his students get a more realistic sense of decision-making.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Raymond Tanter professor
emeritus of political science.
John F. Ward, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Ward received his B.A. (1957), M.A. (1961) and his D.Phil. (1961) degrees
in physics from Oxford University. He joined the University of Michigan's physics
353




June Meeting, 2000


department in 1961 as a lecturer and research associate. In 1964, he returned to England as
a research fellow at the Clarendon Laboratory and lecturer at Wadham College, Oxford
University. He rejoined the University of Michigan in 1967 as associate professor and was
promoted to professor in 1975.
Professor Ward arrived at Michigan shortly after Professor Peter Franken had
launched the field of nonlinear optics, and that became the focus of his subsequent
research. Much of Professor Ward's work involved the use of experimental nonlinear
optical techniques to investigate the electric properties of small molecules. The
calculation of these molecular data (by others), although well understood in principle, is
not yet satisfactory despite the dedicated efforts of quantum chemists using substantial
amounts of supercomputer time. Professor Ward's work has furthered the understanding
of both nonlinear interactions and of small molecules, while encouraging the
development of improved quantum chemical calculation techniques. Professor Ward has
also conducted initial demonstrations of such new nonlinear optical effects as optical
third harmonic generation in gases and dc-induced optical rectification. He investigated
resonant nonlinear processes, developed and utilized nonlinear optical interferometers,
and with other physics faculty developed nonlinear perturbation theory in a form
appropriate to the field of nonlinear optics. Professor Ward also investigated the
industrial applications of lasers and was awarded patents in that area.
As an active member of the physics faculty, Professor Ward served as associate
chair for the graduate program (1987-90), associate chair for research and facilities
(1992-93 and 1996-99), acting chair (1993), and interim chair (1993-94). He represented
the department's interests in several substantial construction and renovation projects,
including the recent addition of 10,000 square feet of space in Randall Laboratory. In
addition, he served as chair or co-chair for 20 doctoral committees and as a member of
an additional 38 committees.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming John F. Ward professor
emeritus of physics.
Edward C. Weber, senior associate librarian, retired from the University Library
on January 4, 2000, after more than forty-five years of service.
Mr. Weber received his B.A. degree from the University of Rochester in 1944, his
M.A. degree from Columbia University in 1948, and his A.M.L.S. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1954. He was appointed junior divisional librarian in the
social science library in 1954 and was promoted to associate divisional librarian in 1955.
Mr. Weber was appointed curator of the Labadie Collection in 1960 and retained this
position until his retirement.
The Labadie Collection, established in 1911, is rich in materials on civil liberties,
anarchism, socialism, sexual freedom, labor history, and underground presses and is
recognized throughout the world as one of the leading collections of social protest and
radical literature. In his forty years as curator of the Labadie Collection, Mr. Weber has
augmented, expanded, and given a high profile to the Labadie Collection. He has a
special ability to work successfully with both donors and book dealers and has had the
foresight to acquire collections before their value was widely recognized. Through his
progressive and intelligent work with the Labadie Collection, Mr. Weber has come to be
known as one of the leading collection development specialists for radical and social
protest publications.
In addition to his outstanding work with the Labadie Collection, for many years Mr.
Weber was responsible for building collections in Latin American studies, theatre, and
minority literature at the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library. His attentive work has


354




June Meeting, 2000


contributed to the strength and breadth of these collections. He has been an active
supporter of LILA (Lavender Information and Library Association), serving as a
resource person for the history of gay rights.
For forty years, Mr. Weber has assisted generations of faculty and students and has
been the face of the University to a multitude of scholars from around the world who used
the Labadie Collection. He is an individual of remarkable honesty, compassion, and
intelligence, who will be deeply missed by his colleagues in the library and the
University.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Edward C. Weber
senior associate librarian emeritus.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Stuart
Sankey, professor of music (double bass).
Stuart Sankey, professor of music (double bass) died in Ann Arbor on May 1, 2000.
He was born in Los Angeles on New Year's Eve in 1927. He studied at The Julliard
School where he received his B.S. and M.S. degrees and then joined the faculty at the
University of Texas at Austin. He became a faculty member at Indiana University in 1980
and was named professor of music at the University of Michigan in 1986. During summers
from 1951 until his death, Professor Sankey was a member of the artist faculty at the Aspen
Music School and Festival in Colorado. He also held guest teaching appointments at the
Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing and the Toho Academy in Tokyo.
Professor Sankey was a master performer on the double bass, and in his work at
Aspen, Texas, Indiana, and Michigan he was an equally masterful teacher. His former
students currently can be found in very many symphony orchestras throughout the
United States, including the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, Boston Symphony
Orchestra, Cleveland Orchestra, Los Angeles Philharmonic, New York Philharmonic,
and the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra and as faculty members in such prestigious
institutions as the Eastman School of Music, Northwestern University, and many others.
Professor Sankey was the author of numerous articles on double bass performance
and revised and edited the Simandle New Method for String Bass, which is by far the
most widely-used teaching method for the bass. He transcribed a great amount of music
for use by double bassists and was for much of his life also active as a composer.
The Regents acknowledge his death with sadness and offer sincere condolences
to his wife, Li Ting, and daughters, Laura and Lili.
Degrees. President Bollinger submitted a recommendation for award of an
honorary degree to Vaclav Havel, president of the Czech Republic.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Divestiture of Tobacco Securities
President Bollinger commented that he had sent a memorandum to the Regents in
support of the recommendation of the Tobacco Advisory Committee that the University
divest itself of tobacco stocks. He emphasized that this proposal had emanated from
within the University many months ago, and that the precedent for considering the issue
was set in the late 1970s and early 1980s when the issue was divestiture of stocks of
companies doing business in South Africa. The standard set at that time was that a
company or organization must be acting in ways that are deeply abhorrent to University


355




June Meeting, 2000


principles and inconsistent with the mission of the University. The process followed at
that time led to divestiture of such stocks.
In the current case, it was decided that divestiture would only be considered after
there had been extensive consideration within the campus from groups representing
students, faculty, and staff. If these recommendations were positive, an ad hoc advisory
committee would then be set up to consider the issue. This is the process that did, in
fact, occur, and the advisory committee has returned a recommendation in favor of
divestment.
President Bollinger observed that this is a matter on which people of reasonable
minds can differ. He noted that the University needs to be careful not to politicize such
decisions due to the danger that taking a position on a major public issue might
discourage people who disagree from expressing their views. It is also important not to
discourage the openness to all points of view that is one of the defining characteristics
of a University. On the other hand, he commented that Universities must not consider
themselves completely outside of any moral or ethical norms. When there is behavior
that is against the norms of the University and inconsistent with its mission, the
University must consider taking a position. The committee report describes the
harmfulness of tobacco and the duplicity of the companies in denying that this is the case.
The major points, he concluded, are that this request has emanated from within the
institution and has been considered extensively and carefully, and the community is
calling upon the Regents to act on the belief that it would be inconsistent for the
University to maintain its principles and simultaneous be an owner of these organizations.
Regent Maynard moved divestiture of direct holdings of stock in tobacco
manufacturing companies and requested that the vote be made by a show of hands.
Regent Taylor seconded the motion.
Regent Brandon commented that this is the hardest vote he has had to consider
since joining the Board, because he does not like either choice. Voting against it, he
believes, would show sympathy towards tobacco companies, and this does not reflect
his opinion. However, a vote in favor would also be problematic due to the inconsistencies
and hypocrisies inherent in the "symbolism" argument. Therefore, he indicated that he
would abstain from voting.
Regent Taylor stated that he is angry about the fact that this issue has come up for
a vote. He noted that tobacco is a dangerous substance, and that when companies
produce products that research confirms have the effects inherent in cigarettes, they
should be shut down or the production and sale of the products should be made illegal.
It angers him, he said, that the only recourse is the symbolic action the Regents are
being asked to take. However, he concluded, "the University's position as a premier
institution in health education and health research, and as a health care provider,
dictates a yes vote."
Regent Maynard indicated that she intended to support the motion. She noted that
she had to separate her own personal abhorrence toward tobacco companies and their
products and what actions the institution should take. Thus she carefully considered the
report of the ad hoc committee and the deliberative process established during previous
divestiture discussions. She observed that this is a very troubling, serious issue and she
has concluded that she concurs with the arguments of the ad hoc committee. She


356




June Meeting, 2000


pointed to a statement made by one of the speakers at Public Comments that tobacco is
different from other harmful products in that it kills when used as directed. She
concluded that she will be voting yes because she believes it is an important step for the
University to take.
Regent McGowan observed that Board members have responsibility for the policy,
and that there have been abundant opportunities to examine it. She noted that the
deliberative process by which this policy has been considered has been extensive,
including review by the ad hoc committee, the general counsel, the CFO, the president,
and it is the Regents' responsibility to either implement the policy or to change it. She
stated that she is "absolutely in support of divestiture."
Regent Deitch stated that certain basic principles govern his actions and
decision-making. In this case, tobacco companies make products that kill people when
used as directed, and in addition, there is evidence of cynical manipulation of the public
by tobacco companies. From a business perspective, he said he doesn't believe
investment in tobacco companies is necessary to fulfill the Board's fiduciary duty to
maximize return.  That being the case, he asked, "why own the investments?"
Furthermore, he expressed that it is "absolutely appropriate" for a university to make
value judgments and to state that it is not going to participate. He pointed out that
divestiture of stocks from companies that did business in South Africa during the 1970s
and 1980s actually worked over time. When institutions such as universities have the
opportunity, he stated, they should align themselves with people with conscience and
"put their money where their mouths are." He concluded that he was happy to have the
opportunity to cast an affirmative vote in favor of divestment.
The vote was then taken and the motion to divest direct holdings of stock in
tobacco manufacturing companies was approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard,
McGowan, and Taylor in favor, Regent Horning opposed, Regents Brandon and
Newman abstaining, and Regent White absent.
Payment for Services of Ply LLC
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchase contract with Ply LLC for a signage project.
Because one of the partners in Ply LLC, M. Craig Borum, is also a University faculty
member, this contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and its International Institute and Ply LLC.
2.  The service provided was design and fabrication of prototype signage in
March 2000 for a total cost of $1,475.00.
3.  Professor Borum's pecuniary interest arises from his position as equal partner
of Ply LLC.
Lease Agreement with M. Melissa Gross
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with M. Melissa Gross. Because M. Melissa
Gross is also a University faculty member, the agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:


357




June Meeting, 2000


1.   Parties to the lease agreement will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and its Center for Ergonomics and M. Melissa Gross.
2.   The service provided is the lease of Professor Gross' house from June 1, 2000,
through July 6, 2000, at a total rent of $1,000.00.
3.   Professor Gross' pecuniary interest arises from her ownership of the house to be
leased.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
MiTex Solutions, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to a license agreement with MiTex Solutions,
Inc. for the Generic Cell Controlling Method and Apparatus for Computer Integrated
Manufacturing System and related software (collectively "GCC") (Technology
Management Office files #683 and 683sl). Because James R. Moyne holds equity
interest in MiTex Solutions, Inc. and is also a University employee, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MiTex Solutions,
Inc., a company in which James R. Moyne holds an equity interest.
2.   Contract terms for the amendment include:
A fee of $10,000.00 in consideration for the amendment.
Royalties to the University remain as in the original license: 12.5% of net
sales of the software that was developed at the University (not less than
$750.00/copy) and 3% of net sales of software independently developed by or
for MiTex that implements the patented aspect of GCC (not less than
$200.00/copy). These rates are the same as included in an agreement in which
the same technology has been licensed to another small corporation that is
located in another state. So long as MiTex has its headquarters and principal
place of business in the state of Michigan, the royalty rates shall be reduced
respectively to 6% (not less than $250.00) and 1.5% (not less than $100.00).
Royalty of 20% on sublicense revenue remains as in original license.
Non-exclusive license for all fields replaced by an exclusive right to practice
and commercialize the technology in the fields of semiconductor, display and
memory manufacturing. The University retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties revised to be $500.00 for 2000; and $1,000.00 for
2001 and each year thereafter during the term of the agreement.
Term of the agreement remains as for the life of the patent and the copyright,
as applicable.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement or this amendment.
Consent for MiTex to assign the agreement to Brooks Automation, Inc.:
If assigned to Brooks Automation, revised terms: Fee of $30,000 up front to


358




June Meeting, 2000


the University on completion of the assignment to Brooks; the University to
receive 5% of all compensation to MiTex from Brooks for all intellectual
property involved in a sale of substantially all MiTex assets to Brooks,
including technologies developed by MiTex and technologies licensed by
MiTex from other parties; no other royalties due to the University from MiTex
or Brooks.
3.   Dr. Moyne's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in MiTex
Solutions, Inc. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of
royalties received by the University from that company. Since the amended
license will reduce the field of use originally licensed, Dr. Moyne's waiver
will no longer apply for fields of use outside what will be licensed to MiTex.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Living
Text, LLC
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Living Text, LLC for a non-exclusive license to a program called "Kids as Global
Scientists 2000" (KGS). Because the owner and president of Living Text, LLC, Perry
J. Samson, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information if provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Living Text, a
company owned by Dr. Perry Samson.
2.   Contract terms include:
Non-exclusive right to further develop and commercialize the software.
No monetary consideration.
The University retains ownership of the program and may continue to further
develop it, use it in research tool, and license it to others.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Dr. Samson's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in the company.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
FreshOnLine, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
FreshOnLine, Inc. Because the owner of FreshOnLine, Inc., Warren C. Whatley, is also
a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and FreshOnLine, a
company owned by Dr. Warren C. Whatley.
2.   Contract terms include:
Exclusive right to further develop and commercialize the software.


359




June Meeting, 2000


License fees are $1,000 due on signing the Agreement and $1,000 a year.
The University retains ownership of the program and may continue to further
develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.  Dr. Whatley's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in the company.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Supplemental Information to the
Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
of the University of Michigan. Regent Newman commented that it is curious that the
University should have to provide financial information about organizations over which
it has no control. Executive Vice President Kasdin stated that he would report back as
to why these particular clubs are included in the audit and not others.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted information about investments made
in follow-on funds of previously approved alternative asset partnerships. The funds are
Battery Ventures VI, L.P., and Thomas H. Lee Equity Fund V, L.P.
Lease of Surgical Facilities from the Department of Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor
VA Health System
Executive Vice President Omenn informed the Regents that the University of
Michigan Health System is in the process of proceeding with a lease arrangement with
the Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs Healthcare System for the use of operating room space
in the VA Hospital by the Department of Surgery. He commented how important the
relationship is between the University of Michigan Health System and the Ann Arbor
Veterans Affairs Healthcare System. He observed that this has been an ongoing,
long-term relationship and that the Ann Arbor VA Hospital is an important academic
resource for many clinical departments of the Medical School. He noted that because
Congress has mandated that the VA facilities must obtain at least 10 percent of their
revenues from nonfederal sources, this arrangement, which will help the University of
Michigan to expand its operating room capacity, is also very much in the interest of the
VA.
Expenditure of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson Endowment
Funds for the Fiscal Year 2000-2001
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved expenditure of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite
Wolfson Endowment Funds for the fiscal year 2000-2001, as described in the Regents
Communication.


360




June Meeting, 2000


Authorization for Expenditures for the 2000-2001 Fiscal Year
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved authorization for temporary expenditures for the 2000-2001
fiscal year beginning July 1, 2000.
Authorization for Expenditures for the 2000-2001 Fiscal Year for the University
of Michigan Health System
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved authorization for temporary expenditures for the University of
Michigan Health System for the 2000-2001 fiscal year beginning July 1, 2000.
Chrysler Center for Continuing Engineering Education Renovation of Room 143
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for renovation of Room 143 in the Chrysler Center for
Continuing Engineering Education Building. Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed
out that the cost of the project will be $525,000, as reflected in the document in the
supplemental agenda.
Institute of Science and Technology (IST) High Bay Building Addition
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised budget and expanded scope for the originally approved
addition to the IST High Bay Building on North Campus and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding a construction contract providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Medical Research Laboratory Facility Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a recommendation for the appointment
of Polshek Partnership Architects for the Medical Research Laboratory Facility. Regent
McGowan moved approval of the recommendation, and Regent Horning seconded the
motion.
Regent Taylor left the meeting at this point, at 10:30 a.m.
President Bollinger commented that he is pleased at the progress that has been
made to date in the Life Sciences Initiative. He noted that the project involves
improving and enhancing the connections among the schools and colleges, among
departments, and among various segments of the campus, and that it is already yielding
tremendous benefits for students.
Provost Cantor said that a set of four interdisciplinary introductory courses for
undergraduates covering a broad array of subjects in the life sciences has already been
set up, and these build on the connections mentioned by President Bollinger.
Executive Vice President Omenn commented that the Life Sciences Initiative is
incorporated into many activities at the Medical School, and the Life Sciences Institute
and Medical Research Laboratory Facility are vital components of it.  He also
commented that the Biological Sciences Scholars Program has had a very positive
effect on faculty and student recruitment.


361




June Meeting, 2000


Regent Newman inquired whether there were sufficient financial resources to
pursue this project. Executive Vice President Kasdin and Executive Vice President
Omenn responded that funding has been identified for this and the Life Sciences
Institute, two critically important projects for the University.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals (UMH) Autoclave Technology Project
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that this project for replacement of the
University Hospital Incinerator had been previously endorsed by the Hospitals'
executive board and has been viewed with great favor by the Ann Arbor community.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMH Autoclave Technology Project, as described in the
revised Regents Communication.
M-Care Bylaws
Executive Vice President Omenn described proposed technical revisions to
Article IV, Section 4.02, Paragraph 1 of the M-Care Bylaws. On a motion by Regent
Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved revision to
Article IV, Section 4.02, Paragraph 1 of the M-Care Bylaws, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2001
Given the absence of two board members, it was decided to table this item until
the next meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:45 a.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for July 13-14, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


362




INDEX


A
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, Approval of new degree
program (Master of Urban Design), 102
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 336
A. Alfred Taubman Medical Library,
Renovations approved, 23
Aamot, Kirk C., Assistant Professor of Music at
UM-Flint, 58
Abbas, Sadia, Lecturer I in Classical Studies, 94
Abriola, Linda M., Appointed to College of
Engineering Executive Committee through
8/31/00, 58; Reappointed to College of
Engineering Executive Committee
9/00-8/04, 336
Academic Calendar, Approved for 2002-2003,
317
Achenbaum, W. Andrew, Resigned, 70
Adams, Paul A., Acting Chair of Department of
Biology at UM-Flint, 55
Adams, Paul T., Resigned, 100
Adams, William J., Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs in College of LS&A, 333
Adler, Dorit D., Professor of Radiology with
tenure, 294
Advincula, Arnold P, Lecturer in Obstetrics and
Gynecology, 14
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports,
Appointments made, 14,186
Ahmed, Asra Z., Lecturer in Internal Medicine,
14; Clinical Instructor II in Internal
Medicine, 273
Ahmed, Ismael, Appointed to UM-Dearborn
Citizens Advisory Committee through
8/15/2003, 58
Ahrends, Maike, Lecturer I in Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 58; Term
completed as Lecturer I in Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 133
Ahuvia, Aaron, Assistant Professor of
Management Studies at UM-Dearbor, 14
Ainsworth, Donna S., Lecturer II in Women's
Studies, 94
Aiyer, Ananthakrisnan, Lecturer in Sociology,
337
Akerley, Brian J., Assistant Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, 129
Akervall, Jan A., Lecturer in
Otorhinolaryngology, 218


Akiyama, M. Michael, Sabbatical leave, 16
Albert B. Prescott Professor of Pharmaceutics,
Victor Chi-Min Yang appointed, 273
Albin, Roger L., Professor of Neurology with
tenure, 294
Alcock, Susan E., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
217
Aldrich, Michael S., Extended sick leave, 299
Alessi, Norman E., Professor of Psychiatry with
tenure, 294
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Additional appointment
as Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management, 55;
Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management without
tenure in School of Business
Administration, 150
Alexander, Richard D., Duty off campus, 64;
Retirement furlough, 98
Alfred Holmes White Collegiate Professorship
in Materials Science and Engineering,
Established, 217; John W. Halloran
appointed, 217
Alice Freeman Palmer Professorship in History,
Carroll Smith-Rosenberg appointed, 56
Allen, Richard J., Reappointed to active status,
64, 299
Allen-Meares, Paula, Norma Radin Collegiate
Professor of Social Work, 217
Allison, David W., Lecturer II in Sociology, 58;
Term completed as Lecturer II in
Sociology, 341
Allor, Theresa Mary, Personal leave, 243
Almaguer, Tomas, Sabbatical leave, 338
Alpine, Keith D., Clinical Assistant Professor II
of Prosthodontics, 186
Alumni Association, Update on Alumni
Association programs and activities
presented, 320
Alumni Association Business and Financial
Affairs Committee, Appointments made, 57
American Association for Public Opinion
Research, Purchasing contract with
approved, 80
Ames, James R., Chair of Chemistry
Department at UM-Flint, 333
Amferov, Vladimir A., Term completed as
Lecturer II in Physics, 71
Amidei, Dante E., Professor of Physics with
tenure, 293
Amidon, Gordon L., Reappointed Charles R.
Walgreen Jr. Professor of Pharmacy, 297


363



