
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
July 1993 - June 1994
The University of Michigan




JULY MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 15, 1993
The Regents assembled at 1:00 p.m. at the Fleming Administration Building
and took a bus tour of construction sites in the Medical Center, North Campus,
and central campus areas. They reassembled in the Regents' Room at about 2:20
p.m. for a presentation by Jim Christenson, director of plant operations, on
facilities stewardship, capital renewal goals, and deferred maintenance realities.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Brown, McFee, McGowan,
Power, Varner, and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, and Womack were also present, as was Chancellor Renick. Chancellor Jones, Vice President Kelly, and
Regents Deitch and Baker were absent.
Executive Session Motion
At the conclusion of the presentation, Regent Power made the following
motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
Thursday, July 15, 1993, immediately following Public Comments, for
the purpose of considering a periodic personnel evaluation of a person
who has requested confidentiality.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Public Comments
At 4:00 p.m., the Regents reassembled in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union to hear public comments. All Regents were present.
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Robert C. Casad, Jr., alumnus, on Regents' Bylaw 11.151; Brian S.
Kight and Craig Greenberg, vice president and president, respectively, of Michigan Student Assembly, on proposed tuition increases; and Dave Devarti, citizen,
on being good citizens of the community relative to the Burr Oak Grove.
Friday, July 16, 1993
The Regents met at 9:20 am. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy,




July Meeting, 1993


and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as
were Chancellors Jones and Renick.
The president called on Provost Whitaker, who introduced Lester Monts,
newly appointed vice provost for academic and multicultural affairs, to the assembly. Vice President Womack introduced Phil Abruzzi, newly appointed director of purchasing.
University of Michigan Solar Car Team
President Duderstadt announced that on June 26, 1993, the University of
Michigan Solar Car Team had won the national championship in Sunrayce 93.
He complimented the team on this accomplishment and then called on Regent
McFee, who offered the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan wish to commend the
University of Michigan Solar Car Team for their extraordinary success
in winning the national championship in Sunrayce 93, a solar car race
from Arlington, Texas, to Minneapolis, Minnesota, for North American
colleges and universities.
The team which raised the necessary funding and designed and
built the solar car consisted of over 100 students from across the
campus, including the College of Engineering, School of Business
Administration, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
School of Art.
The race team, consisting of 21 key students, was faced with many
challenges, including the fact that they were considered the defending
champions by virtue of the first place finish of the 1990 solar car team
in the inaugural solar car race, Sunrayce 90. This year's team also had
to compete against 35 other teams, 20 of which were seasoned veterans
of Sunrayce 90.
The team successfully defended its crown by placing first in the
overall competition in spite of disputed penalties and cloudy weather.
The team strategy, teamwork, and a well-designed and reliable car were
the key factors in their successful demonstration of academic excellence
put into practice.
The Regents salute the 1993 Solar Car Team for their victory in
Sunrayce 93 and wish them continued success when they compete in the
World Solar Challenge in Australia in November of this year.
The motion was approved by acclamation, and there followed a round of
applause. The president recognized several members of the team who were in
attendance. Team leader Furqan Nazeeri accepted the resolution on behalf of the


2




July Meeting, 1993


team and spoke of the team's hopes for winning the world championship later in
the year.
1993-94 General Fund Operating Budget and Student Fees, Ann Arbor
Campus
President Duderstadt called on Provost Whitaker to present the proposed
1993-94 General Fund Operating Budget.
Provost Whitaker reviewed the underlying principals, long-term goals, and
short-term objectives used in preparing the 1993-94 budget. The objectives were
to provide a significant merit increase program, to meet increases in fixed costs,
to provide resources for the highest academic priorities, to maintain and enhance
access, to reinvest in the physical infrastructure, and to insure against forecasting errors in budgeted revenue. Provost Whitaker described the four sources of
General Fund revenues as being state appropriation, tuition and fees, indirect
cost recovery, and investment income. The 1993-94 budget calls for a zero increase in state appropriation, an increase of $26.0 million in tuition and fees, an
increase of $11.4 million in indirect cost recovery, and $0.4 million in other income. He noted that the indirect cost recovery rate had been increased from the
previous year and complimented the faculty for the increase in funded grants
and contracts that had led to the increase in that category. The budget also proposes a $50/term increase in the infrastructure maintenance fee, to yield an increase of $4.3 million. The total increase in General Fund revenue is $41.6
million, or 6.6 percent.
Provost Whitaker pointed out that the proportion of General Fund revenue
funded by state appropriation versus tuition and fees has gone from nearly 80
percent in the early 1960s to under 40 percent at the current time. The president
pointed out that publicly-funded institutions in 36 states had experienced a decrease in state appropriation last year, and he credited the Michigan legislature
for protecting its higher education budget from this situation. Regent Baker
observed that the reason tuition keeps rising is because the state has failed to
maintain the historic level of funding over the past 30 years.
Provost Whitaker credited the faculty for the projected increase in the
indirect cost recovery portion of the budget for 1993-94. He pointed out some
specific efforts that individual units are undertaking to contain costs and make
funds available for innovation through substitution. He noted that a compensation program was the highest budget priority for 1993-94 and complimented the
faculty and staff for having done an outstanding job in the face of no salary
increase in 1992-93.
Provost Whitaker then described the FY 1993-94 planned incremental
expenditures of $41.6 million as follows: compensation, $16.1 million; fixed cost
increases, $5.1 million; student financial aid, $8.8 million; new academic initiatives and other critical academic needs, $5.2 million; "pass-through" revenue,
$3.0 million; and the infrastructure maintenance fee, $3.5 million. To achieve an
adequate compensation increase, he noted that unit budgets had been increased
by 2.5 percent, staff benefits funding had been increased by $5.0 million, and


3




July Meeting, 1993


that units had been requested to make additional reallocations to permit further
increases in compensation.
The provost reiterated the University's policy of meeting the demonstrated
financial need of all regularly enrolled Michigan resident undergraduate students. He displayed a chart indicating that the outcome of this policy is that the
percentage of admitted freshmen who enroll by parental income is fairly even
across income classes, meaning that enrollment is independent of family income
for resident undergraduate students.
The proposed undergraduate tuition increases are 9.5 percent for residents
and 6.9 percent for nonresidents. For graduate students, the increase is 6.9 percent for both residents and nonresidents.
Regent Baker argued that the infrastructure maintenance fee ought to be
folded in with the tuition and fee increase figures to more clearly indicate the
total increased cost to students, noting that there is no assurance that the
infrastructure maintenance fee will actually be used for its stated purpose.
Regent Power commented that maintaining buildings and classrooms is a
responsibility of stewardship, and that the expanded fee is needed and will be
used to do this. He argued that it is appropriate to break down the various fees
charged to students according to their intended purpose, rather than combining
them into one sum, as suggested by Regent Baker.
In response to a question from Regent McFee, Provost Whitaker stated that
the approximate yearly cost for an undergraduate resident student, including
room and board and other expenses, is $11,200. He displayed charts showing
that for Michigan resident undergraduates, the University's two-term tuition
increase of $514 is the lowest of any other top ranking university nationally, as is
the total tuition cost for a Michigan first-year undergraduate at the same top
universities.
1993-94 UM-Dearborn General Fund Budget/Student Fee Rates
Chancellor Renick observed that tuition and fees and state appropriation
comprise 97.0 percent of the General Fund budget at UM-Dearborn. The proposed 1993-94 incremental budget of $2,040,000 provides for a salary program of
approximately 4.5 percent and for strengthening and broadening certain instructional programs. He stated that reallocation discussions are underway for the
1994-95 fiscal year, although it should be noted that a high percentage of the
budget is spent on teaching.
The incremental budget, to be funded by a 9.5 percent tuition increase, will
fund a salary program ($1,252,000), faculty promotions ($26,000), fringe benefits
($335,000), academic programs ($262,000), student financial aid ($145,000), and
a UM cost allocation increase ($20,000).
1993-94 UM-Flint General Fund Budget/Student Fee Rates
Chancellor Jones observed that the General Fund budget at UM-Flint is
comprised solely of tuition and fees and state appropriations. Given no increase


4




July Meeting, 1993


in the latter category, the proposed incremental budget must be funded almost
entirely with tuition increases. The proposed student fee increase of 8.5 percent
will yield $1,259,500, and a 5.0 percent internal reallocation will yield $628,950,
for a total incremental budget of $1,888,450.
Incremental expenditures include a 3.0 percent salary program ($692,000)
(following an inflationary increase was given in 1992-93); staff benefits increases
($200,000); student aid ($128,600), library/Central Energy Plant debt retirement
($200,000), and programmatic initiatives ($667,850).
Chancellor Jones noted that one of the continuing challenges of his
administration has been in the area of facilities development. He observed that
major new facilities, including the central energy plant and the new library, have
been funded entirely by private funding. However, because the University is not
receiving any state support for these facilities, it is required to fund the debt service on them. Chancellor Jones reported that he was planning to speak out about
the state's new policy of not providing operating funds for self-liquidating facilities, as this has a devastating impact on the Flint campus. He said that when an
institution raises money from private sources to fund a core facility, it is inequitable when the institution is penalized by not receiving state support for operations expenses.
In the discussion that followed, Regents Brown and Varner stated that they
would support the proposed tuition increase because the University has done the
very best it can do to maintain itself as one of the state's greatest assets in the
face of no increase in state support. President Duderstadt said that he is proud of
the combination of access and quality that the University of Michigan has been
able to maintain in the face of increasing financial constraints, especially when
compared with other state-supported institutions nation-wide.
Regent Deitch observed that Board members' responsibility for stewardship
over the institution requires that they be absolutely certain they are doing the
right thing. He believes that only the Regents have the independence to make
this type of judgment. He suggested that the Regents should be tough managers;
should insist on productivity, efficiency, lack of waste, and modesty in the
economic arena; should never be afraid to ask tough questions and should insist
on excellence. The Regents should think strategically. They should insist on
access and should be compassionate and caring and insist on a diverse and
inclusive community that welcomes all of its members. Finally, Regents should
be "tireless cheerleaders for the University of Michigan," which includes participating in the capital campaign, listening to the needs of the community, and supporting the administration in its efforts to maintain and enhance the institution.
Weighing the budget presentation against these values, Regent Deitch stated that
the only choice is to support the budget.
Regent Baker observed that the Regents have an obligation to control the
costs of education to the extent they can, and this can only be done by limiting
the number of dollars that are available. For this reason, he did not intend to
support the proposed tuition increase.


5




July Meeting, 1993


Regent McFee stated that she agreed with the principles outlined by Regent
Deitch. The public needs to be assured that the Regents recognize their
responsibilities and are doing everything possible to control costs, and the measures outlined by the administration demonstrate that this is being done.
The president noted that the Regents have a responsibility to serve people
for today and at the same time preserve the institution so that it can continue to
serve future generations.
Regent McGowan expressed agreement with the previous sentiments and
added that the chancellors of the Flint and Dearborn campuses deserve equal
recognition for their budget preparations. Regent Power agreed that due to past
and present good management practices at the University, the Regents are in a
position of being able to exercise their responsibilities with relative comfort compared with what is the case at other institutions.
There being no further comments, Regent Brown moved approval of the
General Fund operating budgets and student fee rates for 1993-94 for all three
campuses. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved, with Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and
Regent Baker opposed.
Regent Power observed that the decline in state support of higher education,
which has resulted in increased reliance on tuition, indicates a significant public
policy change, and this pattern is being repeated in public universities throughout the country. The general response has been to tighten expenses where possible and to increase tuition. But he cautioned that we can't keep doing this
indefinitely, and therefore more fundamental restructuring issues need to be examined. He suggested that the University should begin to look at the roles, missions, costs, and revenues associated with being a great public university.
There followed a ten-minute break at 10:55 a.im
The Regents reconvened at 11:05 a.m.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of June 1993.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension,
litigation, personnel-labor relations, and noncompetitive purchases over $2,000.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports of projects established and summaries of
a selection of current research.
Voluntary Support
The report of voluntary support for the month of June will be included in
the September agenda.


6




July Meeting, 1993


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
David W. Cohen, Ph.D., Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology,
without tenure
James R. Corbett, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, July 16, 1993
Edwin M. Curley, Ph.D., Professor of Philosophy
Steven C. Dronen, M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, July 16, 1993
Jeffrey R. Edwards, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management
Marjorie Levinson, Ph.D., Professor of English
Alexander J. Ninfa, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, reappointed to active
status, seven-month term, June 1,1993
Violet H. Barkauskas, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Administration, School of Nursing, reappointed Associate Dean for Administration, School
of Nursing, three-year term, July 1, 1993
Isadore A. Bernstein, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry and Professor Emeritus of
Environmental and Industrial Health, reappointed to active status, one-year term,
July 1, 1993
Frederick J. Beutler, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Professor Emeritus of Information and Control Engineering, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, August 1, 1993
David F. Bohr, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed to active status, one-year term
July 1, 1993
Michael H. Bradley, Professor of Finance, with tenure, and Everett E. Berg Professor of Business
Administration, appointment extended as Everett E. Berg Professor of Business
Administration, five-year term
Noreen M. Clark, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, reappointed Chair, Department of
Health Behavior and Health Education, two-year, ten-month term
Wayne S. DeSarbo, Professor of Marketing and Statistics, with tenure, and Sebastian S. Kresge
Professor of Marketing, appointment extended as Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of
Marketing, five-year term
Ronald F. Fleming, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Director, Michigan
Memorial Phoenix Project, reappointed Director, Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, four
and one-half year term, February 1, 1994
John C. Floyd, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1993
Carolyn M. Gillespie, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Theatre, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair, Department of Theatre, UM-Flint, three-year term,
July 1, 1993
Armin E. Good, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, one year
term, April 20, 1993
Whitmore Gray, Professor Emeritus of Law, reappointed to active status, fall term
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1993


7




July Meeting, 1993


James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology,
reappointed to active status, one-year term, July 1, 1993
Robert N. Grosse, Professor Emeritus of Population Planning and International Health,
Professor Emeritus of Health Planning, and Professor Emeritus of Urban, Technological,
and Environmental Planning, reappointed to active status, fall term
J. Bernard Machen, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Dean, School of Dentistry,
reappointed Dean, School of Dentistry, October 1, 1994-June 30, 1999
Claude R. Martin, Jr., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, and Isadore and Leon
Winkelman Professor of Retail Marketing, appointment extended as Isadore and Leon
Winkelman Professor of Retail Marketing, five-year term
John Mersereau, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures, reappointed to
active status, fall term
William M. Mikkelsen, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1993
Patricia A. O'Connor, Associate Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
reappointed to active status, one-year term
John W. Reed, Professor Emeritus of Law, reappointed to active status, fall term
Dennis G. Severance, Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, and Arthur
Andersen Professor of Computer and Information Systems, appointment extended as
Arthur Andersen Professor of Computer and Information Systems, five-year term
Gene E. Smith, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Assistant Dean, College of
Engineering, reappointed Assistant Dean, College of Engineering, three-year term
Vern Terpstra, Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, reappointed to active status,
university year
George R. Thompson, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1993
Karl E. Weick, Professor of Organizational Behavior, with tenure, and Rensis Likert Collegiate
Professor of Organizational Behavior and Psychology, appointment extended as Rensis
Likert Collegiate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Psychology, five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
David C. Blair, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, also appointed Associate Professor of Information and Library
Studies, without tenure, School of Information and Library Studies, three-year term
Donald J. Bord, from Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Natural
Sciences, UM-Dearborn, to Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Associate Dean, College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, three-year term, January 1, 1994
Roderick J. A Little, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Biostatistics, School of Public Health, also appointed Professor of Statistics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Michael C. Dawson, Associate Professor of Political Science and Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure, leave without salary extended, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Mark Gersovitz, Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Director, Center for Research on Economic Development, leave without salary
extended, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994


8




July Meeting, 1993


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Charles M. C. Lee, Assistant Professor of Accounting, also appointed the Sanford R. Robertson
Assistant Professor of Business Administration, one-year term, September 1, 1993
Michael E. Riordan, Chair, Navy Officer Education Program, three-year term, August 1, 1993
Theodore L. Spencer, from Interim Director of Undergraduate Admissions to Director of
Undergraduate Admissions, five-year term, August 1, 1993
Helen   Peak   Professor of Psychology. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Helen Peak Professor of Psychology, effective September 1,
1993.
HI  Marvin Pollard Professorship in Gastroenterology. The Regents
approved   the  establishment of the H. Marvin       Pollard  Professorship in
Gastroenterology, effective July 16, 1993.
Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professorship in Pediatric Cardiologyo The Regents approved the establishment of the Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professorship in Pediatric Cardiology, effective July 16, 1993.
Interim  Appointment Approval. The Regents authorized the president
or the provost and vice president for academic affairs to make such interim appointments and/or changes as may become necessary during the month of
August 1993 to complete the staffing for the fall term.
The following committee appointments were approved:
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Maurita Holland, July 1, 1993June 30, 1996, vice Elaine Didier, term expired
Yale Kamisar, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1996, vice Julian Hoff, term expired
Richard D. Rattner, alumnus, July 1, 1993-June 30,1996, vice Lillian Bauder, term expired
Robert A. Weisbuch, July 1, 1993June 30, 1996, filling vacant position
Herbert G. Winful, July 1,1993-June 30, 1996, vice Billy J. Evans, term expired
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
John H. D'Arms, retroactive reappointment, November 1, 1991-October 31, 1996
Sidney Fine, retroactive reappointment, November 1, 1992-October 31, 1997
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., retroactive reappointment, November 1, 1990-October 31, 1995
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Fred L. Bookstein, September 1, 1993-August 31, 1996, vice John H. Holland, term expired
Thomas R. Trautmann, September 1, 1993-August 31, 1996, vice Roy A. Rappaport, term
expired
William Zimmerman, September 1, 1993-August 31, 1996, vice Lawrence B. Mohr, term expired
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Steven C. Althoen, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1996, vice William J. Meyer, term expired
Charles W. Bailey, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1995, vice L. Nathan Oaklander, resigned
Robert M. Kren, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1996, vice Thomas A Bloom, term expired
Accusations against Professor David          Goldberg. The Regents requested that they be briefed on the policy issues associated with accusations that
were made during the winter term against Professor David Goldberg. Provost


9




July Meeting, 1993


Whitaker reported that the Senate Assembly has been discussing freedom of
speech issues and agreed that this is an area worthy of substantial discussion.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Rhonda Brown, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Heidi C. Crow, M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 14,1993
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Brian D. Athey, Ph.D., Lecturer in Biology, January 1, 1993
Betty L. Bell, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English and Women's Studies
Sueann Caulfield, M.Ph., Instructor in History and Instructor in History, Residential College
Xiaokai Chen, MA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, June 1, 1993
Pradeep K. Chhibber, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
Christine E. Evans, Ph.D., Dow Corning Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Todd S. Gernes, Ph.D., Lecturer III in English
Mayumi Ishida, M.Ed., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, June 1, 1993
Laura J. Olsen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
Afaf B. Omer, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies and Women's Studies
Stefan E. Oppers, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Jianming Qian, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
James M. Rowan, MA, Lecturer II in Psychology
John W. Tanke, MA, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature
Medical School
Cynthia A Bergman, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1993
Joseph B. Cornett, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Paul L. Fine, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Anne M. Hepner, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
William T. Jacoby, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Thomas A Kim, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Thomas J. Lombardi, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Kim C. Man, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Sofia D. Merajver, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Erick M. Remer, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Leonard S. Sherman, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Peter A. Soukas, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Peter J. Strouse, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Duc D. Tran, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Brian D. Williamson, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1 1993
School of Nursing
Bernadine E, Cimprich, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, June 1, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts Sciences, and Letters
Alexandra A. Carpino, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Art History
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Claudia S. Kocher, M.BA, Lecturer in Finance


10




July Meeting, 1993


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Roman M. Cibirka, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, May 1, 1993
Steven D. Shoha, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Dennis F. Turner, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry,
October 1, 1993
Medical School
Jamie Dananberg, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, June 1, 1993
Arlan T. Johnson, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, May 15, 1993
Ella A. Kazerooni, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, June 1, 1993
School of Public Health
Stephen A. Eklund, from Associate Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, School of
Public Health, and Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, to
Associate Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, and
Adjunct Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 1, 1992
CORRECTION TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Randall L. Repic, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Resource and Community Science,
March 1, 1993 (previously reported as September 1, 1993)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
John P. Gobetti, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, June 1-August 31, 1993,
and June 1-August 31, 1994
Tammy Trullard, Lecturer in Dentistry, leave without salary, May 7-June 30, 1993
College of Engineering
William F. Hosford, Jr., Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
James M. Miller, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
leave without salary, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Tomas Almaguer, Associate Professor of Sociology and American Culture, with tenure, leave
without salary, January 1-May 31, 1994
Rosamund A Bartlett, Assistant Professor of Russian Literature, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Charles M. Baxter, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
W. Reynolds Farley, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1993 -May 31,1994
Marilyn S. Fries, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Women's
Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Floyd F. Gray, Professor of French, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1994
Linda K. Gregerson, William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Yasheng Huang, Assistant Professor of Political Science, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31,1994


11




July Meeting, 1993


John W. Kingdon, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
John E. Knodel, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31,1994
Ann E. Larimore, Professor of Geography and Women's Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Jack E. McLaughlin, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Eran Pichersky, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
James I. Porter, Associate Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Norbert W. Schwarz, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, June 1 -August 31, 1993, and leave without salary, July 1-31, 1993
Matthew D. Shapiro, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1,1993-May 31, 1994
Jindrich Toman, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Thomas E. Weisskopf, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Jeffrey A. Winters, Assistant Professor of Political Science, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Mayer N. Zald, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of Business
Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1994
William Zimmerman IV, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1993
School of Natural Resources and Environment
William B. Stapp, Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, with tenure, retirement
furlough
School of Public Health
O. Lynn Deniston, Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure,
retirement furlough
UM-Dearborn College of Arts Sciences, and Letters
Francisco Soto, Assistant Professor of Humanities, leave without salary, September 1, 1993 -April 30, 1994
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Spilios D. Fassois, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993 (previously reported as research
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993)
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Crispin J. Wright, James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, leave
without salary, January 1-December 31, 1993 (previously reported as January 1 -May 31, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Norman E. Barnett, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, May 31, 1993


12




July Meeting, 1993


Kent L. Hubbell, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure
School of Business Administration
Marlys G. Lipe, Assistant Professor of Accounting, May 31, 1993
School of Dentistry
William D. Browning, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 8,1993
Gerald E. Eisemann, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1993
Debra K. Kennedy, Lecturer in Dentistry, February 28, 1993
Aida N. Peterson, Lecturer in Dentistry
Domenica G. Sweier, Lecturer in Dentistry
School of Education
Gerald Gurin, Professor of Higher Education, with tenure
Law School
Whitmore Gray, Professor of Law, with tenure, May 31, 1993
Bruno E. Simma, Professor of Law, with tenure, May 31, 1993
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
I. Elisabet Andersson, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, December 31, 1992
Hans U. Boden, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1993
Stephen M. Buckley, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1993
Francelia Clark, Lecturer in English, May 31, 1993
Karen E. Clark, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1993
Sigrid E. Fertig, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, December 31, 1992
Thomas J. Gerschick, Lecturer II in Sociology, August 31, 1993
Mark W. Gross, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1993
Susanmarie Harrington, Lecturer in English, August 31,1993
Monique F. Kavanagh, Lecturer II in French Literature, May 31, 1993
Stephane A. Laederich, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1993
Phyllis B. Lassner, Lecturer in English, May 28, 1993
Shirong Lu, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, August 31, 1993
Walter D. Mignolo, Professor of Latin American Literature and Literary Theory, with tenure,
May 31, 1993
Jeffrey S. Moore, Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Macromolecular Science and Engineerin
Zhongmin Shen, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
August 31, 1993
Jonathan S. Simon, Assistant Professor of Political Science, May 31, 1993
Patrice M. Some, Assistant Professor of French, May 31, 1993
Medical School
James C. Andrews, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Peter Ash, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, June 21, 1993
James A. Boozan, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology
Cynthia M. Caron, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, June 11, 1993
Joseph G. Craig, Lecturer in Radiology
Deborah J. Crowe, Lecturer in Radiology
Samuel Decanay, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Daniel A Dessner, Lecturer in Radiology
Jeffrey C. Dipaolo, Lecturer in Radiology
Bruce C. Elson, Lecturer in Radiology
Sara J. Erickson, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Klaus P. Fechner, Lecturer in Radiology
Donald E. Felix, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, May 28, 1993
Jeffrey D. Girardot, Lecturer in Radiology
Steven C. Goldstein, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Terrence M. Gross, Lecturer in Radiology
Leon J. Grunhaus, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure,, June 14, 1993
Mary M. Hamer, Instructor in Radiology, June 17, 1993
Michael F. Haney, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, June 4, 1993


13




July Meeting, 1993


Robin A. Horn, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Debra M. Ikeda, Lecturer in Radiology
Joseph H. Introcaso, Lecturer in Radiology
Donald L. Klippenstein, Lecturer in Radiology
Stephen E. Kuehn, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Jonathan J. Langberg, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Cecily Legg, Lecturer in Psychiatry
Donald S. Mackie, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, June 1, 1993
Lawrence Z. Meiteles, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology
Mary E. Melton, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, May 31, 1993
Ronald B. Natale, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, May 31, 1993
Robert M. Poole, Clinical Instructor II in Neurology
Steven E. Raper, Assistant Professor of Surgery, June 18, 1993
Markus Schwaiger, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, May 31, 1993
Cary L. Siegel, Lecturer in Radiology
Evan B. Stubbs, Jr., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, May 28,1993
Khaled K. Toumeh, Lecturer in Radiology
Charles C. Tsai, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Yong-Hsiung Tsai, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 17, 1993
David M. Waterhouse, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Stacy A Yamasaki, Lecturer in Radiology
Jeffrey M. Zerin, Assistant Professor of Radiology
Lauren B. Zoschnick, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, May 31, 1993
School of Nursing
Darlene J. Ledwon, Lecturer in Nursing, May 31, 1993
School of Social Work
Jesse E. Gordon, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1993
David P. Himle, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, May 9, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Robert A Bolda, Associate Professor of Business Administration, without tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Rajeshwar K Gupta, Associate Professor of Engineering Science, without tenure, May 31, 1993
John S. Kuhn, Assistant Professor of Theatre, May 31, 1993
Emilie P. Smith, Assistant Professor of Psychology, May 31, 1993
UM-Flint School of Management
Robin N. Widgery, Professor of Marketing, without tenure, May 31, 1993
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Janice A. Clark, associate professor of music (music education) in the
School of Music and lecturer in education in the School of Education, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1993.
Professor Clark was born and raised in Canton, Ohio, where she was active
in public school music programs. She continued her studies at Westminster
Choir College in Princeton, New Jersey, where she graduated with her B.M. degree in 1951. She taught music at the Charles Ellis School for Girls in Pennsylvania from 1951-54; concurrently, she served as the organist-choir director at
Marple Presbyterian Church in Bromall, Pennsylvania. In 1954, Professor Clark
journeyed west to enroll as a graduate student at the University of Michigan,


14




July Meeting, 1993


where she received her M.Mus. degree in 1956. In 1955, she began an association
with the Dixboro Methodist Church as organist (later director of music) that
extends to the present. Following completion of her graduate studies, Professor
Clark became a consultant in elementary vocal music for the Livonia Public
Schools. She was appointed to the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer
(music education) in 1958, was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, and to
associate professor in 1969.
An active participant in music educators' associations at state and national
levels, Professor Clark has been especially energetic as a traveler to International
Society of Music Education meetings in Perth (1974), Montreux (1976), Warsaw
(1980), and Bristol (1982).
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Janice A Clark associate professor emerita of music (music education) and lecturer emeritus in
education.
Louis A. Ferman, professor of social work in the School of Social Work
and co-divisional director and research scientist in the Institute of Labor and
Industrial Relations, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1993.
Professor Ferman received his B.A degree from Brown University in 1952,
his M.A degree from Boston University in 1953, and his Ph.D. degree in sociology and industrial relations from Cornell University in 1961. He served as an
instructor and research associate at Wayne State University from 1957-63 and
joined the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations (ILIR) at the University of
Michigan as a research associate in 1959. He was named research director of
ILIR in 1965 and associate professor of social work in 1966. He was promoted to
professor of social work in 1969 and named divisional director (later, codivisional director) of ILIR in 1971. He received his appointment as research
scientist in 1988.
Since 1961, Professor Ferman's research has focused on the human problems of industrial societies. His research interests have included coping with
unemployment, plant shutdowns, manpower development, participative management, joint union-management training, and the informal ("off-the-books") economy. Regarded as the "father of informal economy research," Professor Ferman
has lectured, conducted seminars, and consulted both here and abroad on a wide
range of industrial topics. His publications include Poverty in America, Negroes
and Jobs, Job Development for the Hard-to-Employ, and Work Beyond Employment in Advanced Societies.
Professor Ferman is widely known in corporate, union, and legislative circles concerned with the development of industrial policy. Recently, he has been
involved in practical problems in economic development, such as career development of women in Third World countries, and the development of free markets
in eastern Europe.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Louis A Ferman
professor emeritus of social work and research scientist emeritus.
Warren E. Miller, research scientist in the Center for Political Studies at
the Institute for Social Research, and adjunct professor of political science in the


15




July Meeting, 1993


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on
April 30, 1993.
Professor Miller received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of
Oregon in 1948 and 1950, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from Syracuse University in 1954. He came to the University of Michigan in 1951 as an assistant
study director in the Survey Research Center and was promoted to study director
in 1953. From 1954-56, he was an assistant professor at the University of California at Berkeley. He returned to the University of Michigan in 1956 as an
assistant professor of political science and research associate in the Survey
Research Center. He was promoted to associate professor in 1958, to research
scientist in 1959, and to professor in 1963. He was named the Arthur W.
Bromage Professor of Political Science in 1981. Since 1982, he has been a professor of political science at Arizona State University.
Professor Miller has done pioneering research in electoral and political
behavior, focusing on democratic processes and how to enhance them. His
frequently-cited works time and again have set the direction for the field. At the
University of Michigan, Professor Miller founded the Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research in 1962, the Center for Political Studies in
1970, and the American National Election Study in 1977. He served as executive
director of the Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research
until 1970, director of the Center for Political Studies until 1981, and principal
investigator of the American National Election Studies through April 10, 1993.
Among Professor Miller's many honors are his election as a fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1977) and as a fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science (1984). He was awarded an honorary
Doctor of Philosophy degree by the University of Goteborg in 1972, and received
the University of Michigan Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1977.
He served as president of the American Political Science Association in 1979-80.
The Regents now salute this distinguished political scientist for his dedicated service by naming Warren E. Miller research scientist emeritus.
Rosemary A. Sarr, professor of social work in the School of Social Work
and faculty associate in the Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social
Research, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after 34 years of
service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Sarri obtained her B.A degree from the University of Minnesota
in 1946, her M.S.W. degree from the University of Minnesota in 1955, and her
Ph.D. degree in social work and sociology from the University of Michigan in
1962. After gaining several years of professional experience in the field, Professor
Sarri joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Social Work in
1959 as a lecturer. She was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate
professor in 1964, and professor in 1966.
Scholars and professional practitioners the world over consider Professor
Sarri to be a leading expert in the areas of child/family welfare policy and juvenile
and criminal justice systems. Most recently, she has collaborated with universities in Australia and Korea on the topics of child welfare and adoption and was
appointed by the minister of education to the Russian Social Welfare


16




July Meeting, 1993


Commission to help develop educational standards and curriculum guidelines for
social work education programs in Russia.
Professor Sarri has done extensive research and published widely on public
policy issues related to families, children, women, and justice systems. She has
also served the School of Social Work, the University, and many government
agencies through her extensive committee, consulting, and community activities.
Her teaching has been inspirational and her mentorship of students noteworthy.
Her retirement marks the departure of an esteemed member of the faculty of the
School of Social Work who has been devoted to the improvement of social welfare
systems.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Rosemary A Sarri
professor emerita of social work.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
took the following actions with respect to degrees:
They approved the final degree list for the June 1993 Medical School commencement and for the May 1993 commencements of the various schools, colleges, divisions, and branch campuses. They also approved the August 1993
doctoral degree list as well as certain specified changes to previously approved
degree lists. A copy of each degree list is on file in the Office of the Secretary of
the University.
Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 1993-94
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the uses of the income of the Wolfson endowment finds,
as outlined in the Regents Communication.
Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133,
Audit Reports and Schedules for the Years Ended June 30, 1992 and
1991, and Summary of Recommendations and Responses to Nonmaterial Responses as Reported by Ernst & Young
Vice President Womack reported that in compliance with OMB Circular
A-133, an audit was performed by the University's independent auditors, Ernst
& Young, based on the University's basic combined financial statements for each
of the two years ended June 30, 1992 and 1991. This audit is required for all
institutions of higher education and other not-for-profit organizations that
receive federal funds. Ernst & Young issued unqualified opinions in all seven
categories for the two year period, for a total of fourteen unqualified opinions.
Also contained in the agenda materials is a summary of recommendations and
responses to nonmaterial findings on specific compliance and internal control
matters, as reported by Ernst & Young.


17




July Meeting, 1993


The Regents noted that despite negative publicity that the University had
received in the recent past, the results of this audit show that the University has
been an extremely responsible steward of public funds.
Vacant Land, State of Washington
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of a 15.36 acre parcel of vacant land located on
Fidalgo Island, Washington, and offering the land for sale at a price established
by an appraisal. Any costs required to market the property will be deducted from
the proceeds. In the event there is a question as to the environmental condition
of this parcel, it will not be accepted.
Issuance of Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 1993A
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution amending the resolution adopted
in April 1993, which provides that the University shall use Legally Available
Funds if Net Revenues are insufficient for the annual debt service requirements.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOUSING REVENUE BONDS SERIES 1993A AND
PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") adopted on April 16,
1993 a "Resolution of the Regents of the University of Michigan Authorizing the Issuance and
Delivery of Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 1993A and Providing for Other Matters Relating
Thereto" (the "Resolution"), which Resolution provided for the issuance and delivery of Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 1993A (the "Bonds") for the purpose of providing funds to pay part of the
costs of the Project (as defined in the Resolution), refunding the Issuer's outstanding Prior Bonds
(as defined in the Resolution), to fund a debt service reserve fund for the Bonds, and to pay
certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding,
and
WHEREAS, it is now appropriate to amend the Resolution to permit the Issuer to covenant in the Indenture (as defined in the Resolution) to use Legally Available Funds of the Issuer
to pay debt service on the Bonds in the event the Net Revenues of the System are insufficient
therefor,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Resolution is hereby amended as follows:
The first paragraph of Section 2 of the Resolution is hereby amended to read as follows:
'"The Bonds shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from and
equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of the Net Revenues (as shall be defined in
the Indenture) of the University's Housing System (as shall be described and defined in the
Indenture) and moneys from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to
the Indenture. The lien created by the Indenture on the portion of the Net Revenues previously
pledged for debt service on the Prior Bonds shall be subordinated to the liens thereon securing
the Prior Bonds until the respective related issues of the Prior Bonds are defeased or paid. The
Authorized Officers, or either of them, are authorized, if appropriate, to renegotiate the security
for any of the Prior Bonds listed on Exhibit A, to place it on a parity with the Bonds authorized
hereby. The Issuer may also covenant in the Indenture, in addition to other requirements, that
the Issuer shall use Legally Available Funds, as shall be defined in the Indenture, to pay debt
service on the Bonds in the event the Net Revenues of the System are insufficient therefor.


18




July Meeting, 1993


2. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict hereof
be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists. As amended hereby, the Resolution is ratified and confirmed.
Real Estate Investment
Regent Brown moved, Regent McFee seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment Fund
to Realty Associates Fund III, pending the general counsel's review of the partnership agreement for legal acceptability.
Reorganization Investments
Regent Brown moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved commitment of an additional $5 million of the University
Endowment Fund to Restart Partners, L.P. and commitment of $10 million of
the University Endowment Fund to Belmont II, L.P., pending the general counsel's review of the partnership agreement for legal acceptability.
International Common Stock Management for University Endowment
Fund
Regent Power moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved Emerging Markets Investments, L.P., as a vehicle for making
investments in emerging markets within the allocation for international common
stock investments.
Endowment Advisors is the companion organization to the Common Fund
that organizes investments for educational institutions in assets other than marketable securities, and Fairfield Partners, Inc., is a wholly owned subsidiary of
Endowment Advisors. Fairfield Partners is the general partner of and exercises
policy control over Emerging Markets Investments. Because Vice President
Womack serves as a trustee of both Endowment Advisors and Fairfield Partners,
this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contracts (partnership agreement) will be the University of
Michigan and Emerging Markets Investments, L.P.
2.   The duration of the contract with Emerging Markets Investments, L.P., will be
open-ended. The partnership will invest University Endowment Fund assets.
Vice President Farris W. Womack or a University representative will attend
meetings of the boards and related committees, as had been the case prior to Dr.
Womack's service on the boards.
3.  Vice President Womack has no pecuniary interest in these contracts. For
Emerging Markets Investments, L.P., Fairfield Partners will receive no management fee, but will receive a two percent interest in the profits and losses of
the partnership.
UM Hospitals Relocation and Expansion of Outpatient Dialysis
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need application to relocate


19




July Meeting, 1993


outpatient dialysis to either leased space or a University-owned facility or space
obtained via a joint venture with another healthcare organization.
UM Hospitals Radiology Ultrasound Digital Imaging Network
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the establishment of an Ultrasound Digital Imaging Net~
work as the first phase of the Radiology Department Image Management and
Communications System.
East Engineering Building Renovation
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
took the following actions with respect to the renovation of the East Engineering
Building: They authorized revising the budget if necessary and awarding a construction contract to the low bidder, provided that these actions result in a project that is within available funding, as outlined in the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) refurbishing of
Auditoriums 3330 and 5330 in the Medical Science I Building; 2) relocation of the
anthropology collections from the East Engineering Building to space in 1239
Kipke Drive; 3) carpet replacement in the UM-Dearborn Mardigian Library; and
4) construction of a grounds structure at UM-Dearborn.
Purchasing Contract between the University of Michigan and Rebus
Planning Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract between the University of Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc. Because the owner of Rebus Planning
Associates, Inc., Samuel J. Meisels, is also a University employee, this contract
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support three University of Michigan research
grants include the purchase during the period of August through October 1993
from Rebus Planning Associates, Inc., of 100 classroom sets of Work Sampling
materials ($13,500); 140 sample packs of Work Sampling training ($6,160); and
5 participants at Work Sampling Training ($2,000).
3.  Dr. Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Inc..
Purchasing Contract between the University of Michigan and Gini
Associates
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract between the University of


20




July Meeting, 1993


Michigan and Gini Associates. Because John H. Romani, senior associate at Gini
Associates who would be providing the services, is also a University employee,
this contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and Gini Associates.
2.   The terms of the contract to support the leadership seminar to be held at the
UM on October 12 and 13, 1993, include the purchase from Gini Associates of
Dr. Romani's services to plan and conduct the leadership seminar plus Gini Associates' support for a total cost of $3,931.
3.   Dr. Romani has no pecuniary interest in Gini Associates. He is employed by
Gini as an independent contractor.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Process Biotechnology, Inc. (PBI)
Regent Brown moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and Process
Biotechnology, Inc., for conducting a research project under the direction of
Louis Tsui at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Because the president of
PBI, Henry Yee-Neen Wang, is both a 50 percent shareholder in PBI and a
University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  PBI has provided a letter agreement to the Regents of the University of Michigan authorizing funding for this project.
2.   The agreement will provide $3,000, representing one-half (1/2) month salary
and benefits for Dr. Tsui, to be incurred over a ten-week period. Conduct of the
project will be consistent with standard University research policies.
3.   Dr. Wang's stock ownership is his sole pecuniary interest in this project. He will
not be compensated by the University for any activity associated with this project.
Sale of $10,480,000 Parking System Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
1993
Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of $10,480,000
Parking System Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1993, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.17 (School of Natural Resources
and Environment Executive Committee)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the Regents' Bylaws regarding the School of
Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee. The change reduces
the period of ineligibility for reappointment to the executive committee from two


21




July Meeting, 1993


years after service on the executive committee to one year. The following is the
revised text of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.17.
Sec. 11.17. The School of Natural Resources and Environment
Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and four members of the tenured professorial faculty to be appointed by the Board of Regents on recommendation
by the president. The appointed members shall hold office for two years, and the terms
shall be adjusted so that two will expire each year. The appointed members shall be eligible for reappointment for one additional term but shall not thereafter be eligible for
reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The governing faculty is authorized to
arrange for students, not more than two in number, selected in accordance with procedures and for terms approved by the governing faculty, to participate in meetings of the
executive committee in an advisory capacity.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Sections 11.151, 11.151A, and 11.151B (University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents' Bylaw Sections 11.151 and 11.151A
and deletion of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.151B, to make the Regents' Bylaws
consistent with actions taken by the Regents at the meeting of November 1992.
The following is the revised text of Regents' Bylaw Sections 11.151 and 11.151A:
Sec. 11.151. The University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
There shall be an executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals composed of the president; the dean of the Medical School; the dean of the School of Nursing; the vice president for academic affairs and provost; the vice president and chief
financial officer; the vice president for government relations; the vice president for development; the vice provost for medical affairs, the chief of clinical affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals; the executive director of the University of Michigan
Hospitals; the chief of nursing affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals, and assistant dean for clinical affairs, School of Nursing; and two nominees from the
medical/dental staff of the University of Michigan Hospitals.
The chair shall be named by the president and the Board of Regents.
The nominees of the medical/dental staff will be appointed by the Board of Regents on recommendation by the president and will serve four-year terms, so staggered
to provide one replacement every two years.
Sec. 11.151A.    The University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board:
Powers and Duties
The Board of Regents is responsible for establishing the mission, goals, and
objectives of the University of Michigan Hospitals as set out in Sec. 11.15 and for the
quality of medical care services provided; approval of all major programs and operating budgets, including level of expenditures and rates to be charged; the approval of
capital and facility plans; appointment and delineation of hospital privileges for
medical/dental staff members, and appointment of the executive director of the University of Michigan Hospitals.
In all of the above matters, the executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals is expected to make recommendations to the president and the Board of Regents.


22




July Meeting, 1993


The executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals is itself charged
with responsibility and empowered to establish programs, services, and administrative
units to meet the goals and objectives of the University of Michigan Hospitals; to review
and approve medical/dental staff bylaws, rules, and regulations governing medical
care rendered, to review and approve the internal organizational structure of the University of Michigan Hospitals; to determine appropriate delegation of authority to the
executive director of the University of Michigan Hospitals within the system of general
University administration, to insure fulfillment of external requirements for Hospitals'
management; to review and approve Hospitals sponsored training programs; to review
and approve appropriate use of the University of Michigan Hospitals for clinical educational and training experience by various health schools of the University; and to
take such steps as are needed to insure periodic evaluation of Hospitals' operations to
assure that goals and objectives are achieved.
In carrying out the above delegated powers, the executive board of the University
of Michigan Hospitals will submit periodic reports to the president and the Board of
Regents. The executive board shall submit its minutes to members of the Board of
Regents.
Sec. 11.151B.   The University of Michigan Hospitals Public Advisory
Board
(Section 11:151B deleted)
In response to a comment that had been made by a speaker at the previousday's public comment session, Regent Power asked for further information about
how Medical Service Plan rates are set and the impact of this on the Regents'
Bylaws.
Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, and on the recommendation of the UM      Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously
approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Resolution in Honor of Vice President William            Kelly
The president called on Regent Varner, who read the following resolution on
behalf of the Board:
Regents' Resolution.
The Regents of the University happily salute and commend
William C. Kelly, who is concluding an extraordinary career as faculty
member, author, researcher, administrator, problem solver, and finally
as vice president for research at the University of Michigan.
Dr. Kelly received his Ph.D. degree at Columbia University in
1954. After a brief stint in the U.S. Army, he joined the faculty at the
University of Michigan as an instructor in 1956. He quickly rose
through the professorial ranks, carrying a full teaching load while
managing an active research program that resulted in numerous
writings on the geochemistry and mineralogy of economic mineral
deposits around the world, including the well-known          deposits in
Michigan's Upper Peninsula. He has served on scores of national


23




July Meeting, 1993


scientific panels and in 1991 was awarded the gold medal of the
International Society of Economic Geologists for his "unusually
original work in the earth sciences."
Bill's University accolades include the Distinguished Service
Award (1961) and the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award
(1985). He was named the C. Scott Turner Distinguished Professor in
Geological Sciences in 1983. His outstanding academic career has been
peppered with administrative chores which he carried off with great
distinction: chair of the Geology Department from 1978-81, interim
director of the Institute of Science and Technology in 1986, associate
vice president (1989), interim vice president (1990), and finally, vice
president for research from September 1990 to the present.
In all of these administrative posts, Bill Kelly had the nose of a
trouble-shooter. He took on the knottiest of problems and engineered
solutions that will serve the University for years to come. And perhaps
his crowning achievement was to see the University's federal research
volume become the largest in the nation.
The Regents acknowledge with deep appreciation the lifetime of
service that this distinguished scientist has given the University. Bill
and his wife Anna have left indelible marks on the life of this University
with their gracious leadership and good humor. The Regents wish them
all the best and thank them for having served so long and so well. The
sign that will hang on Bill Kelly's office door come September 1 tells it
all: "Gone fishin'."
The resolution was adopted by acclamation, and there followed a round of
applause. Vice President Kelly responded that he appreciated the sentiments
expressed in the resolution and thanked the Board for the privilege of serving in
this position. He also thanked the executive officers and his staff for their dedicated service during his tenure.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on September 23 and 24, 1993. Regents' expenses for the
month of June 1993 totalled $4,240.50.
RiChard L.   nnedy, Secr    dry


24




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 23, 1993
The Regents assembled at 9:10 am. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters.
Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice Presidents Hartford and
Womack were also present. President Duderstadt, Provost Whitaker, Chancellors
Jones and Renick, and Vice Presidents Cosovich and Neal were absent.
Regent Brown called the meeting to order and called on Regent Deitch, who
made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on September 23, 1993, at 10:00 a.m., for the purpose of
considering a periodic personnel evaluation of a person who has
requested confidentiality. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously, after which the Regents immediately
met in closed session.
Public Comments
At 4:00 p.m., the Regents reassembled in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union to hear Public Comments. All Regents were present.
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Marlon Ross, Anne Herrmann, Don Herzog, Van Harrison, and Virginia Gordan, faculty members, and Camille Brewer, student, in favor of revising
Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 to include sexual orientation; James K. Huggins,
Heather Brunsink, Peter Payne, Meredith Uy, and Christine L. Chilimigras, students, against revising Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 to include sexual orientation; and John Erwin Hunter, Sr., and John Erwin Hunter II, on Law School
admissions.
Friday, September 24, 1993
The Regents met at 9:00 am. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy,
and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Neal, and Womack were also present, as
were Chancellors Jones and Renick.


25




September Meeting, 1993


President Duderstadt welcomed Vice President Neal to his first Regents'
Meeting. He then called on Regent Deitch.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06
Regent Deitch stated that he was going to move revision of Regents' Bylaw
Section 14.06 by replacing it in its entirety, and that Regent McGowan would be
seconding the motion. Regent Varner then would be offering an amendment to
the motion.
Regent Deitch moved that Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 be revised to read
as follows:
The University of Michigan is committed to a policy of
nondiscrimination and equal opportunity for all persons regardless
of race, sex, color, religion, creed, national origin or ancestry, age,
marital status, sexual orientation, disability, or Vietnam era veteran
status.
Further, he moved that:
"The sexual orientation provision of this policy shall not
prohibit the University from   maintaining relationships with
agencies of the federal government. Nothing in this action request
shall be deemed to limit rights and benefits which are currently
granted. Because the University wishes to study how particular
employment benefits, family housing, financial aid packages, and
student residency status would be affected by the addition of the
sexual orientation provision, that provision shall not apply to those
subjects at this time. Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 will apply to
those subjects only after the president or his delegate determines,
following that study, how and to what degree the bylaw should
apply to those areas."
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and Regent Deitch explained that
he and Regent McGowan had decided to cosponsor it for four reasons: 1) failure
of the University to move its institutional commitment to nondiscrimination for
the gay/lesbian community from the level of presidential policy to the Regents'
bylaw level implies that discrimination against these individuals is less significant than discrimination against others enumerated in the bylaw; 2) the issue is
one of campus climate in which students should be taught that people's lives are
private and that "all are welcome here: no ifs, ands, or buts"; 3) a truly serious
commitment to academic excellence means that we must stop devaluing distinguished members of our faculty, today; and 4) the plan, with its undertaking of a
study of how the bylaw will affect other aspects of University life such as staff
benefits and family housing, offers a sound and measured approach to change.
Regent Deitch stated that he was proud to be offering the motion, and following some comments describing his personal commitment to not countenancing discrimination against any group on the basis of status, he yielded the floor
to Regent McGowan. (A copy of Regent Deitch's prepared remarks is on file in
the Office of the Secretary of the University.)


26




September Meeting, 1993


Regent McGowan observed that it is a fact that many students, faculty, and
staff at the University are gay, lesbian, or bisexual. She noted that President
Shapiro had recognized this in 1984 by instituting the presidential policy protecting the gay community from discrimination, and that the Board of Regents had
affirmed that policy in 1988. But she noted that in the eyes of the University
community, it is the Regents who create the atmosphere for its campuses. Therefore, it is time for the Regents to say that its own bylaws protect every member of
its community from discrimination based on who they are, and to extend the protections of the bylaws to all.
Regent McGowan observed that over 150 other American public and private
colleges and universities, including Wayne State and Michigan State Universities, most other Big Ten universities, and many of our peer institutions had already subscribed to such a policy, as had prominent Americans such as Barry
Goldwater and Coretta Scott King. Most important, however, was the fact that
the University's own community had been urging the Regents to "end the pain
of omission of the members of the homosexual community o.. and to express our
commitment to nondiscrimination and equal opportunity," and that she believed
the Board was prepared to do so. She then yielded the floor to Regent Varner.
(The full text of Regent McGowan's remarks is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the University.)
Regent Varner stated that she fully supports the recommendation to change
the bylaw, noting that it had been part of the University's values since President
Shapiro's presidential policy on sexual orientation was proffered in the
mid-1980s. In recognition of the historical struggles at the University for equal
opportunities for minority and women students and faculty, she was offering the
following amendment to the language in Regent Deitch's motion to make it eminently clear that the Board would not be taking away the University's commitment to affirmative action:
"The University is also committed to compliance with all
applicable laws regarding nondiscrimination   and  affirmative
action."
Regent Brown supported the amendment.
President Duderstadt observed that the University had lagged behind many
other educational institutions in prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation. Although the University had the presidential policy statement, the
absence of the statement in the Regents' Bylaws put valued members of the University community at some risk and sent a signal that gay, lesbian, and bisexuals
are less valued members of the campus community. He believed that their full
participation in the life of the University must be protected and reaffirmed. He
stated his belief that the change in the bylaw is necessary, is consistent with
Michigan's long tradition of full participation by all groups and individuals, that
it is simply the right thing to do, and that he supported it in the strongest possible terms. He then called on Provost Whitaker.


27




September Meeting, 1993


Provost Whitaker said that this disparity had been a subject of discussion
throughout his 15-year tenure as both dean and provost. A 1991 study of the climate for gays and lesbians at the University, conducted by the Affirmative Action
Office, had raised many important concerns about discrimination among the
deans. At that time, there was unanimous support among the deans that University policy should include nondiscrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
He had appointed a subcommittee of deans, chaired by Dean Bollinger of the
Law School, which had made the recommendation that Regents' Bylaw Section
14.06 should be revised to include sexual orientation, and that he fully supported
that recommendation. Furthermore, the deans and the faculty senate have indicated that the faculty also overwhelmingly supports revision of the bylaw.
Dean Bollinger reported that the deans unanimously support amending the
bylaw to include sexual orientation. Vice President Hartford stated that she personally supported the bylaw change, and that she and her staff, in their work
with the gay/lesbian/bisexual student community, have observed first hand the
need for this change. Furthermore, she had met with a wide variety of student
leaders who also all supported the proposed change.
Regent Baker expressed his views by reading from a prepared statement, a
copy of which is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the University. Regent
Baker recounted the history of efforts to include the phrase "sexual orientation"
in Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06, noting that it had been a contentious issue
since the group LaGROC first advocated for this in 1984. That effort had led to
President Shapiro's "Presidential Policy Statement on Sexual Orientation,"
which was reaffirmed by the Regents in 1988.
Regent Baker observed that Regents Deitch and McGowan had initiated discussions with the president and provost, Dean Bollinger, and the University's
general counsel, Elsa Cole, to amend Bylaw 14.06 soon after their election to the
Board in 1992. He himself had not learned of the existence of a July 1993 legal
opinion from a Washington law firm related to making this change until several
days ago. Regent Baker expressed concern that the other Regents were given
only one week's notice by Regents Deitch and McGowan of their intention to propose the bylaw change, which is the minimum time required, and that because
the president had waived the usual practice of publishing the proposed bylaw
change in advance in the University Record, the public was not given notice of
the proposed change until the first day of the Regents' meeting (September 23,
1993). University faculty, students, and staff were thus denied the right to comment on the issue.
Regent Baker stated that the reason that "sexual orientation" hasn't been
included in the bylaws in the past is because discrimination on this basis is different than the other categories of discrimination named in the bylaws. He further
observed that all qualified individuals at the University are treated equally regardless of their sexual orientation.
Regent Baker pointed out that there are many support and advocacy organizations for gay men, lesbians, and bisexuals at the University, and that these
groups have influenced University policy by making it unacceptable and


28




September Meeting, 1993


sometimes punishable to criticize homosexual and lesbian lifestyles at freshman
orientation, in the dormitory system, and in the classroom. He further noted that
University religious groups have expressed concern about the effect of the proposed bylaw change on their constitutional rights to freedom of association, freedom of religion, and freedom of speech. He quoted from a letter to the Regents
from Mr. Steven T. McFarland, director of the Center for Law and Religious
Freedom, which expressed his reservations regarding the proposed bylaw change
and requested that such a revision contain a "religious conscience" exemption.
(The text of the letter is included in Regent Baker's statement.)
Regent Baker argued that because of the strong political pressures that will
be exerted by homosexual and lesbian organizations, the recommendations of the
committee that will be appointed to study the effect of the bylaw change on other
areas of University life will most likely be fully implemented by the University
administration. Regent Baker noted that he has long argued that University policies regarding speech and conduct restrict both freedom of speech and freedom of
religion on the part of non-homosexual/lesbian students.
Regent Baker opined that the real issue is not alleged discrimination, but
rather, the establishment in the bylaws of the concept of "equivalency" of homosexual and lesbian sexual practices and lifestyles as equal to and as acceptable as
heterosexual sexual practices and lifestyles. According to Regent Baker, the future of our society is at risk and the structure of the family is being crushed by all
of the attacks on its historical religious, moral and ethical bases and the destruction of traditional values. The discussion of the bylaw change represents only one
aspect of that decline.
Regent Baker's prepared remarks concluded with a quote from an article by
Mr. Dennis Prager, from a 1990 issue of his journal, Ultimate Issues (copy included in the prepared statement on file) about the importance of family life in
the maintenance of western civilization. In this article, Mr. Prager asserts that
"the acceptance of homosexuality as the equal of heterosexual married love signifies the decline of western civilization..."
Regent Baker observed that two years ago, a student religious group had
been denied recognition by the Michigan Student Assembly because it would not
allow leaders of the group to be homosexual or lesbian, and the administration
had not intervened. Regent Baker asserted that the issues raised by revision of
the bylaw should be studied and debated prior to its being approved, rather than
by a committee to be formed following the revision, as has been proposed in the
motion. Otherwise the committee's recommendations will be "railroaded"
through, according to Regent Baker.
Regent Baker moved that the motion to amend the bylaws be tabled until a
committee can be appointed to study the implications of such an amendment.
This motion was not seconded.
President Duderstadt reported that if the bylaw change is approved, he intended to appoint a broadly representative commission to study the issues raised
by the change at the earliest possible opportunity. He said he would bring any


29




September Meeting, 1993


significant recommendations for changes in policies or practices to the Board for
firther discussion before implementation.
Regent Brown responded to Regent Baker's comments by noting that the
requirements for notice regarding the proposed bylaw change had been met, and
the notice was sufficient for him. He also disputed some of Regent Baker's assertions about freshman orientation, stating that Regent Baker was wrong in stating that individuals tried to change student's views about homosexuality. Regent
Brown praised the speakers at the Public Comments session for their reasoned
arguments. However, he observed that it would not be in the Board's power to
supersede the guarantees of freedom of religion, association, and assembly that
are contained in the Constitution. He further pointed out that the proposed
bylaw amendment is not a statement of approval or disapproval of any lifestyle;
it merely attempts to prohibit discrimination against the various conditions listed
in the bylaw. Thus, he was prepared to support the bylaw amendment.
In response, Regent Baker stated that he had received numerous calls about
the orientation program and the policies with respect to choice of roommate and
noted that the pressure not to speak up about such issues at the University is
tremendous. He cited some examples of instances involving orientation and
roommate selection.
Regent McGowan responded to Regent Baker's comments regarding the
process that had been followed in proposing the bylaw amendment, noting that it
was not done in secret and that the procedures had been followed to the letter.
She stated that the attorney in the Washington law firm referred to by Regent
Baker was a distinguished alumnus of the University. In response to Regent
Baker's assertion that Regent McGowan had been supported by gay rights activists in her campaign for election to the Board, Regent McGowan stated that her
support of the amendment was not being done as a sort of political payback for
the nearly two million citizens who voted for her, and that she was dismayed that
Regent Baker would make such an assertion. Regent Power expressed agreement
with Regent McGowan.
Regent Deitch observed that the reason that the issue had been a contentious one at the University for the past ten years had been because of Regent
Baker and his personal obsession with it. Noting that in his earlier comments he
had credited his Judaism with having framed his value system and that Regent
Baker was active in the Presbyterian church, he said that people's values, even at
a secular institution, are often framed by their religious beliefs. Regent Deitch
observed that New York governor Mario Cuomo, a Catholic, had framed the issue properly in a 1984 speech on abortion in which he stated that as a Catholic
public official he lived by the political truth that "to assure our freedom, we must
allow others the same freedom, even if occasionally it produces conduct by them
which we would hold to be sinful. We know that the problem with seeking to
force our beliefs on others is that they might someday force theirs on us."
Regent Deitch also noted that his election campaign had been endorsed by
gay and lesbian groups, among others, and that he was proud of that fact.


30




September Meeting, 1993


In regard to the ramifications of the proposed amendment, Regent McFee
recounted her personal experiences of having come of age when women were still
discriminated against in the workplace. She also noted that with the signing of a
marriage contract, people give up some of their independence, and that women
have long sought to protect their rights to equal benefits based on the family income. She said she was very concerned that the contractual obligations and responsibilities that are agreed to in the marriage contract be respected and that
any extension of those contractual rights be in the context of similar contracts,
and not be granted without that kind of commitment.
Regent Power called the question on Regent Deitch's motion to amend the
bylaws. Regent Baker moved that an exception to the amendment be provided
for religious organizations. There being no second to Regent Baker's motion, the
vote was taken on Regent Varner's motion to amend Regent Deitch and McGowan's original motion, and it carried on a vote of seven to one, with Regent Baker
opposed. Finally, the vote was taken on the amended motion to amend Regents'
Bylaw Section 14.06, and it carried, with Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Baker opposed. The
following is the text of the revised bylaw:
Sec. 14.06. Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action
The University of Michigan is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination and
equal opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, color, religion, creed, national
origin or ancestry, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, or Vietnam era
veteran status.
The University also is committed to compliance with all applicable laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action.
There followed a ten-minute break, after which the Regents reconvened at
10:22 a.m.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1992-93; Year End Financial Information
Vice President Womack introduced the financial statements by pointing out
that in each instance, the opinion of the independent auditors, Ernst & Young,
was unqualified and contains the following statement
"In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
University of Michigan at June 30, 1993, and the changes in fund
balances and the current funds revenues, expenditures and
transfers for the year then ended are in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles."
Vice President Womack expressed his appreciation to the many members of
the University community who contributed to the University's being in such a
strong financial condition. He then introduced Mr. Chandler Matthews, associate
vice president for finance, and Mr. Robert Moenart, controller and director of financial operations, to present the financial statements.


31




September Meeting, 1993


Mr. Moenart reviewed current funds revenues through a slide presentation.
He pointed out that the current funds consist of the General, Designated, and
Expendable Restricted Funds (which together comprise the Educational and
General Funds), and the Auxiliary Activities Funds, student fees, state appropriations, and total government programs constitute approximately 82 percent of
the educational and general activities in the Current Funds. The General Fund's
primary function is instruction and research; the Designated Fund constitutes
conferences and continuing education; the Expendable Restricted Fund consists
primarily of federal research funding; and the Auxiliary Activities Fund records
the activities of units that generate their own revenues, such as the hospitals and
housing and athletics.
Over the past ten years, state appropriations as a source of revenue in the
Educational and General categories have decreased from 32.0 percent to 25.0
percent of the total, while student fees have increased from 28.0 percent to 31.0
percent and government programs have increased from 23.0 percent to 26.0 percent. Total Educational and General Funds revenues for 1992-93 were $1.173 billion; the growth rate over the past ten years (adjusted for inflation) has been 5.1
percent.
The expenditure categories of the Educational and General portion of the
Current Funds include salaries and wages, staff benefits, scholarships and fellowships, supplies, and equipment and plant. Over the past ten years, total compensation (salaries and wages plus staff benefits) has gone from 63.0 percent of the
total in 1983-84 to 59.0 percent in 1992-93, with staff benefits as a portion of the
expenditures increasing from 11.0 percent to 13.0 percent and salaries and wages
decreasing from 52.0 percent to 46.0 percent of the total. Scholarships and fellowships have grown over this time period, from 7.0 percent of the total to 10.0 percent of the total. Supplies expenditures have remained relatively constant, at
about 21.0 percent of the total. Equipment and plant expenditures have increased from 8.0 percent to 10.0 percent of the total. The total compound real
growth rate for expenditures and transfers in the Educational and General Current Funds has been 5.1 percent since Fiscal Year 1984.
Auxiliary Activities Funds have grown from 39 percent of total revenues in
1983-84 to 46 percent, while General Fund revenues have decreased from 39 percent of the total to 33 percent. Total revenues over this period have grown from
$890 million to $2.162 billion.
Mr. Moenart displayed charts detailing the components of the growth in
staff benefits from $87.1 million in 1983-84 (16 percent of total compensation) to
$238.9 million in 1992-93 (20 percent of total compensation). Health care costs
for retired and active employees have grown from 28 percent of staff benefits
costs to 37 percent.
Mr. Moenart concluded by observing that the University's bond rating remains at AA or above, and the debt service ratio has dropped from 3.0 percent in
1992 to 2.4 percent in 1993, as a result of refinancing over the past year.


32




September Meeting, 1993


Regent Baker moved adoption of the annual financial statements for
1992-93. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Brown was away from the table when the vote was taken.
1993-94 Revenue and Expenditure Budgets
Vice President Womack began the presentation by displaying charts comparing the 1992-93 and 1993-94 current funds budget totals in terms of revenues,
expenditures, state appropriations, and student tuition and fees. Total revenues
in the General, Designated, Auxiliary Activities, and Expendable Restricted
Funds will increase by 7.8 percent in 1993-94, to $2.255 billion, while expenditures will increase by 7.7 percent to a total of $2.143 billion.
Over the past ten years, the University's budget has increased from about
$900 million in 1985 to $2.25 billion for the coming year. In the 1993-94 revenue
budget, Auxiliary Activities-Medical areas account for 40 percent ($904 million);
Auxiliary-Other, 6 percent ($121 million); the General Fund, 33 percent ($748
million); Expendable-Restricted Fund, 18 percent ($411 million); and the Designated Fund, 3 percent ($71 million). Vice President Womack then turned to Provost Whitaker to present the proposed General Fund budget.
Provost Whitaker reported that the 1993-94 General Fund revenue budget
of $748 million would consist of $387 million from tuition and fees (52 percent),
$293 million from state appropriation (39 percent), $56 million from indirect cost
reimbursement (7 percent), and $12 million from other sources (2 percent). Provost Whitaker also reviewed the 1993-94 General Fund budgeted expenditures by
function, by object, by school or college, by vice presidential area, and by unit. He
discussed detailed budgets for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
the College of Engineering, the Medical School, the School of Social Work, and
the University Library.
Regarding the University of Michigan-Flint budget, Chancellor Jones commented that state appropriation comprises almost 50 percent of the budget,
whereas nine years ago it had been 38 percent. He also explained that the mandatory transfer figure of 5 percent is at the recommended maximum, and that is
due to the debt service required for the new parking deck and the central energy
plant expansion and library. This situation occurred because the Flint campus
was forced to borrow funds for critically needed facilities that it had hoped the
state would have been able to fund.
Vice President Womack took over the presentation at this point and reviewed the Designated Fund revenue budget of $71 million, the Auxiliary Activities budget of $1.025 billion, and the Expendable Restricted Fund budget of $411
million. He pointed out that 88 percent of the Auxiliary Activities revenue budget
comes from Hospital and other medical sources. In the Expendable Restricted
Fund, 67 percent comes from government sponsored programs and 26 percent
comes from private gifts.


33




September Meeting, 1993


Following Vice President Womack's presentation, Regent Baker moved approval of the 1993-94 revenue and expenditure budgets. Regent Varner seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
The following consent agenda items were submitted to the Regents: the
minutes of the July 1993 meeting, reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, projects established, summaries of a selection of
current research, and voluntary support; personnel actions; personnel reports;
and retirement memoirs.
Regent McGowan noted that she was very pleased with the appointment of
Susan Lipschutz as associate provost for academic affairs and expressed the hope
that more women would be appointed to high level positions in the future. President Duderstadt responded that he shared Regent McGowan's concerns, and
that he was committed to appointing women to leadership positions in the University. Regent Varner recognized the outstanding contributions of Vice President Womack and Jack Weidenbach. Regent Power welcomed Vice President
Homer Neal to the table and congratulated Walt Harrison on his appointment as
vice president for university relations and Provost Whitaker and Vice President
Womack on the change in their titles to executive vice president. Regent Baker
concurred.
Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. President Duderstadt announced
his recommendation for the appointment of Mr. M. Joseph Roberson as athletic
director. He noted that Mr. Roberson is a proven administrator, with strong athletic credentials, but most important, he is first and foremost an educator.
Regent Brown moved the appointment of M. Joseph Roberson as director of
intercollegiate athletics; Regent Waters seconded the motion.
Regent Baker read from a prepared statement in which he expressed his
view that the search process for the position of athletic director was faulted and
resulted in the unfair treatment of Mr. Fritz Seyferth as a candidate for the position. To protest this treatment of Mr. Seyferth, Regent Baker announced that although he would support Mr. Roberson in his new position as athletic director,
he intended to vote against the appointment. (A copy of Regent Baker's remarks
is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the University.)
Regents McFee, Brown, and Power expressed their support for Mr. Roberson and noted that they do not accept Regent Baker's statements as an accurate
depiction of the search process. President Duderstadt asserted that the process
was followed to the letter and that much of the information that had been leaked
to the media during the search was incorrect.
Following further comments, the vote was taken on the motion to approve
M. Joseph Roberson as director of intercollegiate athletics, and it was approved,
with Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in
favor and Regent Baker opposed.


34




September Meeting, 1993


Voluntary Support
AMOCO       Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health, the College
of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts................................................................................................69,980
ARCO Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for employee matching gifts..................................................................................................50.............5,050
ARCO Oil and Gas Company Division of Atlantic Richfield Company, Dallas, Texas
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration...................15,000
ARCO Transportation Company, Long Beach, California
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration................. 15,000
AT&T Information Systems, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Aetna Life and Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
David D. Alger, New York, New York
1,000 shares of Spectra Fund common stock and 1,403 shares of Security Equity
Mutual Fund for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.....................22,797
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New York
for  em ployee     m atching     gifts                                                                                   730.......................................................................................................................................................7,730
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Program, in the Transportation Research
In stitu te......................................................................................................5       00..............................................................................................7,5 0 0
Aluminum Company of America, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................45,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
G ero n tolo gy....................................................................................................................................................................................... 18 0,5 82
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
and the Biophysics Research Division..........................................................................................................................227,716
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................24,653
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research     in   the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................19,517
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............657,180
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for  research     in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 55,563
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School................................................37,500
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................38,906
Anonymous Donor
8,500 shares of common stock for a professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and       the  A rts.......000.........................................................................................................................................................255,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............17,500
Mary Anne Auston Estate
for research at the University of Michigan Hospitals in memory of
D avid    H.  M cR oberts.......................................................................................................................................................................34,162
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Bell Atlantic Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Guido A. & Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning and for support of the University Musical Society...........................................................................8,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................................................................................22,492
William N. Brown Trust
for the William      N. Brown Merit Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..........7,747
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for population planning research in the School of Public Health.............................................................13,842


35




September Meeting, 1993


Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Fund........................ 5,325
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration and for
the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in Communication, College of Literature, Science,
and    the   A rts................................................................................................................................,963
Frances R. Burns Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................................................................95106
Burroughs Wellcome Company, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts.........................................   10,498
Calypte Biomedical Company, Berkeley, California
for antiviral research in the School of Dentistry............................................32,000
Cancer Research Institute, New York, New York
for  research    in   the   M edical School....................................................................................................................... 9,833
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work..............................................................................................522,500
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for research in the College of Engineering and the Transportation Research Institute.......14,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering and for employee
m atch in g   gifts......................................................................................................................................................................................5,625
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Taipei, Taiwan
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................9,175
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................  15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for unrestricted support in the College of Engineering, the Center for Engineering
Education, and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...........................................................27,500
Citibank, New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership and the International Faculty Development
Fund in the School of Business Administration......................................................................................................30,000
Citicorp-Citibank, New York, New York
for   em ployee   m atchin g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................9,605
Ada Belle Clark Fund, Los Angeles, California
for the Ada Belle Clark Welsh Scholarship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G radu  ate   Stu dies.............................................................................................................................................................................. 17,500
Mrs. John A. Clark, Ann Arbor
for the Marie Mountain Clark Flute Scholarship in the School of Music...........................................15,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
800 shares Royal Dutch Petroleum common stock for the Pauline M. Conger
Scholarship and the Julia Henning Memorial in the Alumni Association and for
the  Ralph    G. Conger  Scholarship........................................................................................................................................ 74,650
Coopers & Lybrand, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Corning Foundation, Corning, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration.................... 15,000
Cray Research, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................36,393
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Delco Electronics Division of General Motors Corporation, Kokomo, Indiana
for Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Research in the Transportation Research
Institute.....50,000.............................................................................................................................................................................................50,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for  research    in   the  School of D entistry..........................................................................................................................32,558
DePuy Division of Boehringer Mannheim Diagnostics, Warsaw, Indiana
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School..............................15,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts..................................................................................................................................................... 6,370
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Novi
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Dodge & Cox, San Francisco, California
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial in the Department of Athletics......................................10,000


36




September Meeting, 1993


Thomas I. and Barbara S. Dolan, Kalamazoo
2,200 shares of A. O. Smith Corporation Class B common stock for the Thomas I.
and Barbara S. Dolan Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
U niversity   of  Michigan......................................................................................................................................................104,500
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..............................................6,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering and for human
factors research and other support in the Transportation Research Institute............................ 23,000
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for the Corporate Affiliates Program      in the School of Business Administration and
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts.................................................................................................................................................. 11,000
DowElanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Gunter Dufey, Ann Arbor
1,639 shares of New America High Income Fund for support in the School of
B usiness  A dm inistration...............................................................................................................................................................7,888
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for  research  in  the  College  of Pharm acy.......................................................................................................................10,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 12,500
Exxon Corporation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts....................................................................................................................................................52,324
Chuck Fisher, Haslett
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................25,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work and the Institute of Public Policy Studies..............62,779
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the Schools of Business Administration and
Medicine, the College of Engineering, and the Transportation Research Institute............... 189,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and the Institute for Social Research and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Chancellor's Discretionary Fund.................................107,554
Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................................................................................24,281
Helene Fuld Health Trust, New York, New York
for the Nursing Program at the University of Michigan-Flint...................................................................17,500
GE Financial Services Operations, Schenectady, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.......20,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for   em ployee   m atching   gift s....................................................................................................................................................10,400
GTE Products Corporation, Camillus, New York
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................30,000
Gemini Consulting, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................25,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for  em ployee  m atching   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,284
General Electric Company, Schenectady, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................................................... 150,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Arthur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in the School of Music.........................................82,248
Ira and Lenore Gershwin Fund of the Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco, CA
for the Porgy and Bess Opera Fund in the School of Music.........................................................................10,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the Glaxo Fellowship and for research in the College of Pharmacy..............................................50,000


37




September Meeting, 1993


Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, D.C.
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................................ 6,500
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
W. W. Grainger, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for  em ployee  m atching    gifts.....................................................................................................................................................6,225
William   T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research.............................................................................................. 131,168
Carleton H. Griffin, Ann Arbor
190 shares of Sysco Corporation common stock for the Teaching Excellence Fund and
the William    Paton Accounting Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............5,023
Samuel D. Harris Trust, Detroit
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic in the School of Dentistry................................................................... 10,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School........................................................................................................................ 30,000
William   and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................................... 100,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Farmington Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute...................7,500
Francis E. Heydt & Sons, Miami, Oklahoma
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.............................................................. 10,000
Howard S. Holmes, Chelsea
for  support  of the  College  of Engineering...................................................................................................................25,000
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program and the Human Resources Partnership in the School of
B u sin ess   A dm in istration............................................................................................................................................................ 20,000
Howmedica, Inc., Rutherford, New Jersey
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................7,500
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Hughes Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................................................... 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Biological Sciences Education Initiative in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for fellowships in the Medical School...............................914,000
Hyundai America Technical Center, Inc., Ann Arbor
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the Transportation Research.................50,000
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors and other research in the Transportation Research Institute......................50,000
Illinois Bell Telephone Company, Chicago, Illinois
for  em ployee  m atching    gift s.......................................................................................................................................................5,500
International Union UAW, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and for the Summer Enrichment Program
in   the   School  of  Public  H ealth...............................................................................................................................................35,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry...................................... 10,000
Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for  research  in  the  School of Social W  ork....................................................................................................................30,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................74,5 93
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................................20,000
John Harvey Kellogg Estate
for the John Harvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School....................................................... 15,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for  the  C. S. M ott  H ospital G olf Classic  Benefit....................................................................................................... 5,000
W. K Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the School of Public Health, the University
Library, the Institute for Social Research, the Office of the Vice President for
Student Services, and the University of Michigan-Flint............................................................................407,671
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Romulus
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
7,800 shares of Knight Ridder common stock for the Michigan Journalism
Fellowships in the Schools of Business Administration and Law, and in the
Horace H. Rackham        School of Graduate Studies...............................................................................................409.013


38




September Meeting, 1993


Sang-Man Koo, Ann Arbor
for the Sang-Man Koo Research Fund in the College of Engineering................................................... 13,755
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for Museum      of Archaeology support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 12,000
Kyoto Manufacturing Company, Kyoto, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................15,000
LESCOA, Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..............................................15,000
Clarence E. Larson, Falls Church, Virginia
1,045 shares of Burlington Resources, Inc. common stock for the Clarence E. Larson
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering.................49,768
James M. Lawler Estate
for the Abigail Marie Shaw Lawler Student Aid Fund in the Alumni Association.................. 179,745
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for  research     in  the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................47 936
Leukemia Society of America, New York, New York
for  research     in  the  M edical School.................................................................................................................................. 18,630
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................15,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................8,750
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School..........................................................................................47,287
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering.................................................................16,000
Paul M. Lurie, Evanston, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School in honor of Rachel and Daniel Lurie......................10,000
MCI Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration.................... 15,000
Clinton D. Mahlke, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
968 shares of Adrian Steel Company common stock for the Clinton D. Mahlke Donor
Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Division of Kinesiology and the
U niversity     of  M ichigan.............................................................................................................................................................140,360
Mallinckrodt, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for the Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Manns, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...........................................................................10,000
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School and the Centennial
Fund     in   the  School of  N ursing....23                                                                       168........................................................................................................................................23,168
Lucille P. Markey Trust, Miami, Florida
for  research     in   the  M edical School.............................................................................................................................1,018,728
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and  for  em  ployee   m atching   gifts.......................................................................................................................................... 31,625
Constance B. Mathias Estate
for the Thomas R. and Constance B. Mathias Scholarship, College of Engineering.............. 100,000
Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, Cypress, California
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the Transportation Research
In stitu te...................................................................................................................................................................................................5 0 0 00
Mazda Distributors-Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund, School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Mazda (North America), Inc., Flat Rock
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000
William L. McKinley, Fremont
400 shares of Gerber Products Company common stock for the Law School and the
D epartm   ent  of  A thletics...........................................................................................................................................................10,725
Medtronic Hemotec, Inc., Englewood, Colorado
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Rahway, New Jersey
for  research     in   the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................15,000
Merck & Company, Westpoint, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration...............................................................................5,000
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Cincinnati, Ohio
for neurology basic science research in the Medical School.......................................................................... 16,500


39




September Meeting, 1993


Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration................... 15,000
Michigan AIDS Foundation, Grand Haven
for  research  in  the  School of Public  H  ealth................................................................................................................ 16,000
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health........................................................................213,429
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
-for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for human
factors research in the Transportation Research Institute........................................................................... 19,000
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jeffrey and Marsha Miro Endowed Scholarship in the Law School.................................... 50,000
Mitsui Mutual Life Insurance Company, Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Cente, School of Business Administration................. 600,000
Mitsubishi Gas & Chemical of Japan, Ann Arbor
for polymer alloys research in the College of Engineering............................................................................. 10,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and    for  em ployee  m atching   gifts..........................................................................................................................................17,300
George R. Monks Estate
for the Kelsey Museum       of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............29,400
Monroe Auto Equipment Company, Monroe
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering...................................................................................10,000
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for  em ployee    m atching   gifts......................................................................................................................................................5,265
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School................................................37,500
John D. Moss, Peekskill, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics......................................................................... 10,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for intelligent vehicle highway systems and other research in the Transportation
R esearch    In stitu te..........................................................................................................................................................................75,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration...................30,000
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for  the  M ary  E. M ulholland  M  em orial Fund................................................................................................................5,197
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tuscon, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............53,078
K. W. Muth Advanced Technologies, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................ 15,000
NBD Bank, Detroit
for  em ployee  m atching     gift s.....................................................................................................................................................9,840
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration and
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................................................................................55,000
National Geographic Society, Washington, D.C.
for paleontology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................14,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 18,750
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................137,221
James E. Neely Estate
for  the   Jam es  E.  N eely   Fu nd................................................................................................................................................. 12,384
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Nissan Motor Corporation in the U.S.A., Gardena, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute
and    for  em ployee  m atching   gifts......................................................................................................................................... 15,500
Nissan Research and Development, Inc., Plymouth
for general and IVHS research in the College of Engineering.................................................................... 78,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Margaret J. Odiorne, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the George S. Odiorne Scholarship in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Office Related CTD Research Committee, Manchester Center, Vermont
for cumulative trauma disorders research in the College of Engineering........................................ 12,500
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals, St. Louis, Missouri
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School............................................ 37,500


40




September Meeting, 1993


PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................................7,500
Louise Parsons, Birmingham
for the Office of Private Equity Finance Fund, School of Business Administration..................5,584
John M. Paulson, Ann Arbor
118 shares of General Electric Company common stock and cash gift of $2,000 for
scholarships and golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..........................................16,956
Mary Jo Brooks Peters, Ann Arbor
367 shares of Anglo American Corporation common stock for the C. Wilbur Peters
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the C.A.M.P.
Building Fund in the Alumni Association...................................................................................................................11,010
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for Health Services Management and Policy in the School of Public Health............................312,500
Philips International, BV, The Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................................... 22,500
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
Herbert & Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for the Herbert & Elsa Ponting Fellowship in the Medical School...................................10,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for campaign support in the College of Engineering......................................................................................... 10,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the School of Music and for the Power Foundation Exchange
S ch o la rsh ip..........................................................................................................................................................................................3 4,2 23
Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Norwich, New York
for trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School and the College of
P h arm acy.................................................................................................................................................................................................8,5 00
Katherine T. Ransel, Hickory Corners
100 shares of Gannett Company common stock and cash gift of $100 for support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School.......................................5,006
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 80,000
Richards, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................8,000
Rockwell International, Automotive Operations Division, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,900
Irving Rose, Bingham Farms
for the Wade H. McCree Professorship in the Law                School............................................................................ 10,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration.......................7,500
Sandoz Pharma AG, East Hanover, New Jersey
for pathology research in the Medical School...........................................................................................................12,500
Albert G. & Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for  research   in  the  Institute  of G erontology..............................................................................................................10,000
Scripps Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for communications research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................125,925
John Butler Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
1,800 shares of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock for the John
Butler   Schw  em  m    Fund  in  the  Law   School..................................................................................................................55,013
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics............................................................ 10,000
Share Foundation, Grandview, Missouri
for  research    in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................................. 125,000
Siemens Automotive, Auburn Hills
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the Transportation Research
In stitu te...................................................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 00
Siemens-Benedix Automotive Electronics, Newport News, Virginia
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Center for Engineering Education and
P ractice.....................................................................................................................................................................................................2 5,0 00
Philip A. Singleton, Amherst, Massachusetts
for the A. D. Moore Incentive Award in the College of Engineering...................................................... 14,000
Silicon Graphics, Farmington
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School.................9,207
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................74,958


41




September Meeting, 1993


Herbert E. Sloan Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Museum         of Art   and the University Musical Society........................................................................... 6,000
Rollin M. Smith Trust B
for the Rollin M. Smith Fund................................................................................................................................. 47,183
Social Science Research Council, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research..............................................................................................20,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute...............................................30,000
Robert C. Straub, Traverse City
1,800 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Robert C. and
Marian W. Straub Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Alumni Association, the School of Music, and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.....................49,........................................................................................................231
James E. Straus Estate
for research in the Medical School.............................5,285
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................7,500
Sumitomo Electric U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the Transportation Research
In stitu te..............................................................................................................................................................................50,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.1...............................................    055
George and Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso
for the Symes Scholarship in Chemical and Electrical Engineering in the College of
E n g in eerin g...........................................................................................................................................................................................7 8,19 2
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Taisho Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for  research      in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 100,000
Tanner Lecture Trust, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecture in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rt s.................................................................................................................................................................................................... 19 5 0 0
Raymond Tanter, Ann Arbor
for  the    U niversity    M usical  Society........................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Erle W. Taylor Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................................................................................... 10,923
Technova, Inc., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................................74,366
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute
and    for  em ployee   m  atching      gifts............................................................................................................................................. 6,388
Tektronix, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust
for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library...............................4,411,901
Toledo Hospital, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School...................................................................... 170,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the Transportation Research
In stitu te...................................................................................................................................................................................................5 0 0 00
Triological Society, Charlottesville, Virginia
for  research      in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute................. 15,000
Union Oil Company of California Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for    em ployee     m atching    gift s.......................................................................................................................................................5,450
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for  research      in   the  M edical School...................................................................................................................................50,000
United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., Rockville, Maryland
for academic support in the College of Pharmacy.................................................................................................45,000
United States Steel Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts...13438................................................................................................................................................. 13,438
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Horace H. Rackham                      School of Graduate Studies.........................7,000
Varian Associates, Palo Alto, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................... 40,000


42




September Meeting, 1993


Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.............................................................................................................................................. 14,710
Warner-La      mbert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and
the College of Pharmacy..................................................................................371,294
Olivia Richman Way, Medford, New Jersey
for the Olivia Ferguson Richman Scholarship in the School of Information and
L ibrary      Studies................................................................................................................................................................00
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Human Resources Partnership                      in the School of Business Administration....................30,000
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
S tu d ies.................................................................................................................................................................................................8 9,2 1 1
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the School of Business Administration................................................................................................................1,000
Lloyd E. Williams, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law                 School..............................................................................................................10,000
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Great Neck, New York
for the A. Bartlett Giamatti Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e  A rts......................................................................................................................................................................................32,500
World Health Organization, Zurich, Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy and the School of Public Health.......................................30545
Yamaichi Securities Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center, School of Business Administration.................50,000
Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy....................................................................................................................... 15,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K       Yee Scholarship in the Law              School....................................................................................................50,000
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey
for  the   Shady      T rails  C am  p   Fu nd......................................................................................................................................... 12,000
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Public Health...................................................................................................................7,500
Jay Alix, Southfield
for construction of the Cancer Center in the Medical School......................................................................14,800
American Academy of Otolaryngology, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical School,
the College of Pharmacy, the School of Public Health, the Biophysics Research
Division, and the Institute of Gerontology............................................................................................................. 156,036
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration...........................................................8,000
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.....................................................................................................................................37,490
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Fellowship Program                     in the School of Business Administration................150,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law                       School.......................................................................................50,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library...........................................6,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts............................................................................................................................................................................................... 14,750
Joseph C. Bancroft Educational and Charitable Foundation, McComb, Missouri
for the William        Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration..................20,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for  em  ployee      m atching      gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,866
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Preston W. Slosson and the Bockman/Hall History Fellowships in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................................................................. 53,324
Evelyn E. Burke Estate
for  the    A lum  ni  A ssociation.......................................................................................................................................................... 7,500
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for employee matching gifts....................................................................................................................................................65,792


43




September Meeting, 1993


Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library Development Fund........................................... 20,000
Coopers & Lybrand, New York, New York
for the Coopers & Lybrand-Norman E. Auerbach Accounting Research Fund in
the School of Business Administration........................................................................................ 50,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School......................................................................................................................  20,719
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.....................20..................................  22,500
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the JoAnn and Stewart Nathan Initiative Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment and the Corporate Environmental Management
Program    in the School of Business Administration......................              5............................................0,000
Emergency Medicine Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for  research   in   the  M edical  School............................................................................................................................. 12,500
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.................30................................30000
Suren D. Fesjian, Pelham Manor, New York
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program.........................................33,000
Ernestine Fields Estate
for the Ernestine Fields Scholarship in the School of Music.....................................................................35,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the William Clay Ford Funds in the College of Engineering, the Ford
Manufacturing Management Fund in the School of Business Administration,
and  the  U niversity  M usical  Society............................................................................................................................. 03,188
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts................................................................................................................................................. 157,400
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Parker B. Francis Fellowship in the Medical School......................................................................... 17,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts....................................................................................................................................................19,560
Allan D. Gilmour, Dearborn
for the Allan D. Gilmour Doctoral Fellowship, School of Business Administration................. 20,000
G. Robert Greenberg, Ann Arbor
for biological chemistry research in the Medical School......................................................................................8,000
J. Ira & Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................ 20,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the Herrick Faculty Support Fund in Manufacturing, College of Engineering................. 200,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program    in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry........................................................ 50,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering...................................................................................................27,500
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for population planning and international health research in the School of Public
H ealth................................................................................................................................................................................................ 16 7,2 00
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for health behavior and health education research in the School of Public Health................. 15,021
Clarice C. Jones Trust
for the Clair Platt and Clarice Platt Endowment in the Medical School and for the
Eleanor Cranefield Endowment in the School of Social Work................................................................. 600,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................15,000
Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for molecular genetics research laboratories in the Medical School and for the
Program in Professional Ethics in the Law School............................................................................... 800,000
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellowships in Business, Law, and Medicine in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................................................................................................. 28,488
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for history of art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................15,000
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics............................................................... 25,000
Lee Foundation, Singapore
for  the   School  of  M usic........................................................................................................................................................ 16,545
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, chemistry


44




September Meeting, 1993


scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the C. S. Mott
H ospital G   olf  Classic  Benefit.............................................................................................................. 15,000
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
for support in the Law         School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................6,000
Henry Luce Foundation, New York, New York
for South and Southeast Asian Studies in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts..............................................................................................................  45,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building and scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................8,500
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the Building Fund in the School of Social Work.........................................70,000
Michigan Federation of Business and Professional Women's Club, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Michigan Professional Women's Cancer Fund Scholarship in the School of
N ursing.............................1................................................................................................................................................................. 15,968
Sarah Morgan Estate
for the Sarah and Carl Morgan Scholarships, the University of Michigan-Flint..........................29,568
Philip Morris, Inc., Richmond, Virginia
for scholarships and other support in the School of Business Administration..............................15,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute...........................................190,500
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint
for the Program       in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry........................................ 50,000
NBD Bank, Detroit
for    em ployee    m atching    gift s.......................................................................................................................................................5,832
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................60,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research     in   the  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 7,500
Nobelpharma U.S.A., Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for prosthodontics support in the School of Dentistry......................................................................................59,279
Beatrice Paul, Bloomfield Hills
for the William      Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew     Scholars Program, School of Natural Resources and Environment......................259,062
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for international faculty development in the School of Business Administration
and for support in the School of Dentistry..................................................................................................................92,000
Research Fund of the American Ontological Society, Davis, California
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................5,004
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Afro-American and African Studies, College of
L iterature,   Science,    and    the  A rts....................................................................................................................................... 75,700
Susan Ryback, Potomac, Maryland
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning..................................................................6,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School and for the C. S. Mott Hospital Golf
C lassic    B en efi t.................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
Sanyo Securities Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center, School of Business Administration.................50,000
Mary C. Saxe Estate
for general research in the Medical School....................................................................................................................6,001
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for  em ployee     m atching     gifts....................................................................................................................................................10,150
Society Management Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for special exhibitions in the Museum             of Art............................................................................................................11,500
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint.................................................................5,662
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbors
for  the   U niversity    M usical  Society........................................................................................................................................5,500
Frances Willson Thompson Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library........................................39,000
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for  research     in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 19,061
Constantine A. Tsangadas Charitable Trust
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate      Studies......................................................................................................................................................................9,002


45




September Meeting, 1993


Unilever United States Foundation, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for student financial aid and the Associates Program in the School of Business
Administration.........................................................................................................................................2000
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Union Pump Company Fund in the School of Business Administration.......................... 20,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................... 6........ 6,266
Upjohn Company Foundation, Portage
for the Associates Program           in the School of Business Administration.......................................7,500
Mark B. Wallner Foundation, Incline Village, Nevada
for research in the Medical School.......................................................................................................................... 9,000
Wilkinson Foundation, Grosse Point
for Nichols Arboretum          support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Wolverine Temporaries, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.....................................................7,500
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Prechter Laboratory in the School of Education............................................................................. 400,000
AT&T, New York, New York
for the Leadership, Vision, and Change Project, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...................93......................................................................................730
Richard B. Ainsworth, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio
for the JoAnn and Stewart Nathan Initiatives Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment and for the Corporate Environmental Management
Program      in the School of Business Administration.............................................................................................  10,000
Judith Dow Alexander, Ann Arbor
for  scholarships     in   the  School  of  M usic............................................................................................................................5,000
Allied Automotive, Troy, New York
for the Leadership, Vision, and Change Project, School of Business Administration..............15,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New York
for  em ployee     m atching    gifts................................................................................................................................................... 22,170
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 6,250
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Biophysics Research Division, and the
Institute     of  G erontology.......................................................................................................................................................... 185,489
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for support in the College of Pharmacy............................................................................................................................ 7,500
American Federation for Aging Research, New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Dentistry......................................................................................23,742
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................8,800
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 48 750
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for  research     in   the  M edical  School............................................................................................................................. 50 000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships and other student aid in the College of Engineering..................................................... 7,000
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering................................................................................................................. 12,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................8,167
Isabel M. R. Ballentine Estate
for  the  Isabel M. R. Ballentine     Fund............................................................................................................................... 12,556
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
for the Medical School.......................................................................................................................................................... 17000
Edward S. Blake Estate
for the Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Blake Research Fellowships in the Medical
School and in the College of Pharmacy................................................................................................................1,027,759
Robert W. Browne, Ada
11,000 shares of corporate common stocks for the Robert W. and Lynn H.
Browne Professorship in Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 516,250
Chamberlain Foundation, Birmingham
for the Center for Russian and East European Studies and the Institute for Public
Policy Studies Joint Internship Program.................................................................................................................... 15,000


46




September Meeting, 1993


Chemical Bank, New York, New York
for the Leadership, Vision, and Change Project in the School of Business
Administration and for employee matching gifts.................................................................................................. 17,900
Chevron Oil Field Research Company, La Habra, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media,
College of Engineering..........................................................................................................  16,500
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts......................................6,375
Avern L. and Joyce Cohn Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. and Avern Cohn Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School...................... 100,000
Irwin and Sadie Cohn Philanthropy Fund of the Jewish Welfare
Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. and Avern Cohn Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School.........................65,000
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
33 shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock for the Mortimor E. Cooley
Memorial in the College of Engineering and for the Dr. Margaret Wilson Gerard
Memorial Fund....................................516..16....00
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
200 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for the University
Library and the University Musical Society.................................................................................................................9,338
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege   of  E ngin eering................................................................................................................................................................. 16,500
Creative Biomolecules, Inc., Hopkinton, Massachusetts
for the Clinical Center for Preventive and Operative Dentistry in the School of
D e n tistry.................................................................................................................................................................................................6 4,3 3 1
Elizabeth J. Crosby, Ada
for  unrestricted    support   of the  School of Art............................................................................................................... 8,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................20,400
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas J. De Kornfeld, Ann Arbor
925 shares of corporate stocks for the Student Aid Fund for Junior Medical
Students    in   the  M edical  School.............................................................................................................................................51,744
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit
for the Helen DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School................................................................ 50,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.............................................................................15,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music..............20,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the du Pont Funds and other support in the School of Business Administration,
the Center for the Education of Women, the College of Engineering, and the
College     of Literature, Science, and       the   Arts........................................................................................................... 150,000
Mona East Estate
for the University Library and for the School of Information and Library Studies............... 100,000
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William     E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship in the College of Engineering........................27,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for survey research in the Institute for Social Research..............................................................................360,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for civil and environmental research in the College of Engineering.........................................................7,500
Foundation for Anesthesia Education and Research, Park Ridge, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 29,050
Mary Ganyu Trust
for the Mary Ganyu Patient Assistance Fund in the Medical School.................................................200,000
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Detroit
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering...................................................................................25,000
General Motors Technical Center, Warren
for the General Motors Fellowship in Materials Science, College of Engineering.........................6,000
Joseph 0. Grant, Birmingham
for the Orthodontic Clinic in the School of Dentistry in memory of Norma Grant...................25,000
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege   of  E n gin eerin g................................................................................................................................................................. 16,500


47




September Meeting, 1993


Hoechst Celanese Foundation, Inc., Somerville, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts....................................................................................................................................... 6,150
Jon R. Holt, Plymouth, Minnesota
for support in the College of Engineering....................................................................................................... 8,500
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................................................................... 7,500
Intel Corporation, Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering and for student aid in the School of
Business Administration................................................................................................................  3 000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Leadership, Vision, and Change Project, School of Business Administration..............15,000
International Research and Exchanges Board, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 10,050
Charles F. Johnson, Grand Rapids
for the Charles and Barbara Johnson Term Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration........................                c         oH                       es.......                10,00
A dm   in istration................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Garrett B. Johnson, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Kirkland &          Ellis Professorship in the Law             School........................................................................... 10,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, NJ
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts.......................................................................................................................................................7,100
Clarice C. Jones Trust
for the Eleanor Cranefield Endowment in the School of Social Work and for the
Clair Platt and Clarice Platt Endowment in the Medical School............................................................. 92,276
John Josselson Estate
for support in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................34,652
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..........................16,500
Oscar W. Kloha Estate
for student aid in the Medical School.............................................................................................................................. 20,700
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
for the Sports Service Building and other support in the Department of Athletics.....................6,784
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................25,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts...................................................................................................................................................... 7,5 10
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
an  d   th e   A rts..........................................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 0 0
Link Foundation, Rochester, New York
for the Link Foundation Fellowship in Advanced Simulation and Training,
Transportation Research Institute....................................................................................................................................17,000
Lockheed Missiles & Space Company, Sunnyvale, California
for scholarships in the College of Engineering........................................................................................................ 15,000
Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles, California
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership, School of Business Administration..............7,500
Karl E. Lutz, Chicago, Illinois
5,661 shares of Brookstone, Inc., common stock for the Kirkland & Ellis
Professorship in the Law             School......................................................................................................................................... 75,008
Marathon Oil Company, Findlay, Ohio
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering.................................................................................................................................................................16,500
Marathon Oil Foundation, Findlay, Ohio
for  em  ployee    m  atching      gifts................................................................................................................................................. 10,800
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................... 33,000
Eula Dewey Marcks Estate
for the Alumni Association and for the Clements Library.............................................................................45,000
Walter 0. Menge, Fort Wayne, Indiana
2,586 shares of Lincoln National Corporation common stock for the Cecil J.
Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................101,177
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School.............................................................................................5,778
Merck & Company, Inc., Westpoint, Pennsylvania
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School..............................................................................................5,500
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts.......................................................................................................................................................9,500


48




September Meeting, 1993


Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M     Graduate Materials Science Fellowship in the College of Engineering....................10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for employee matching gifts                                                                                          1   10.................................................11,102
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege    of  E ngineering............................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
4,208 shares of Pulse Engineering, Inc. common stock for the Robert A.
Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics...................................................................28,404
Motorola, Inc. Semiconductor Products Sector, Phoenix, Arizona
for high-temperature microelectronics research in the College of Engineering.......................... 25,000
Ruth R. Mott, Flint
for the Mott Undergraduate Library Fund in the University Library................................................ 25,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for  research     in   the  M edical School...................................................................................................................................31,553
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for employee matching gifts............................................................................................................................ 7,350
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................50,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical School....................................................................................................................................30 000
John F. Nickoll, Los Angeles, California
for  capital  support    of  the  Law    School.......................................................................................................................... 15,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Associates Program           in the School of Business Administration.................................................. 7,000
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
Three shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. common stock for the Helen Olson
Brower Memorial Fellowship in Environmental Studies, College of Literature,
Science,   and     th e   A rts....................................................................................................................................................................45,4 50
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................25,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Natural Resources
and Environment and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................1,030,000
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity    M usical  Society........................................................................................................................................ 6,500
Phillips Petroleum Company, Bartlesville, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege    of  E ngin eerin g............................................................................................................................................................... 16,500
John C. and Thelma B. Post Trust
for the John C. and Wilma B. Post Fund......................................................................................................................12,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for scholarships, fellowships, and student aid in the College of Engineering....................................8,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Funds and other support in the School of Business
Administration, College of Engineering, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and the President's Office and the Office of Career Planning and Placement
and   for  em ployee   m  atching     gifts....................................................................................................................................... 141,267
Dorothy Pudrith Trust, Winter Park, Florida
for the Geriatrics Center in the Medical School..................................................................................................... 50,000
Barbara K. Reid Estate
for  student    aid   in   the  M edical  School..............................................................................................................................86,140
Daniel A. Reid Estate
for  student    aid   in   the  M edical  School.............................................................................................................................86,189
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship, College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................22,950
Hide Shohara Estate
for the Hide Shohara Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................233,093
Charles J. Strosacker Foundation, Midland
for the Hill Auditorium         Restoration Fund..................................................................................................................75,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School...................................................................................................8,584
Ileane & Bruce E. Thal Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Welfare Federation of
Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the American Culture Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 10,000


49




September Meeting, 1993


Time, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time-Life News Service Traveling Fund, in the Michigan Journalism
F ellow s  P rogram...............................................................................................................................................................................9 1,056
Toledo Hospital, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory Fund in the Medical School........................................................ 170,000
Trenton Fire Department, Trenton
for the Burn Research and Education Fund in the Medical School........................................................ 13,000
Union Oil Company of California, Brea, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege  of  E ngineering......................................................................................................................................................16,500
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in  the  M edical School................................................................................................................................. 12,500
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group
for Alumnae Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association.......................................................................9,200
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group
for Alumnae Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association.......................................................................6,000
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
1,126 shares of American Express Corporation common stock for unrestricted
support of the  School of Business Adm   inistration.............................................................................................. 35,117
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................7,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, the
College of Pharmacy, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 115,712
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for building and equipment funds in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy,
and  the  College  of Literature, Science, and  the  Arts....................................................................................... 135,000
Harley J. Westfall, Adrian
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................7,500
Ruthmary S. Westfall Trust, Adrian
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..................................................................7,500
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering and the Horace H.
Rackham     School of G raduate  Studies..........................................................................................................................112,000
Ernest A. H. Woodman, Ann Arbor
for the Woodman Recognition Fund in the School of Natural Resources and
E n v iro n m en t....................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,8 7 5
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for  research   in  the  M edical School.................................................................................................................................. 100,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received
David Brazer, Palo Alto, California
books, journals, and working papers from the personal library of Professor Harvey Braze for
the Sumner and Laura Foster Economics Library
Compaq Computer Foundation, Houston, Texas
six desk top and two lap top computers for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program
Conlin-Faber Travel, Ann Arbor
airline tickets for the Campaign for Michigan
Exxon Production Research Company, Houston, Texas
a Finnigan MAT 251 mass spectrometer for the Department of Geological Sciences
George and Helen Mendelson Kerwin, Southfield
a CL sailboat with trailer and accessories for Camp Michigania
Benjamin Lev, Dearborn
books on management and business for the Mardigian Library
NSF International, Ann Arbor
a Perkins-Elmer atomic absorption spectometer for the Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health
Jack Pierson, Flint
hardcover and paperback books for the University of Michigan-Flint Library
Esther B. Russell, Upper St. Clair, Pennsylvania
an oil painting by Letta Crapo Smith entitled "Taormina" and a goblet of pressed glass (circa
1850-1860) for the Crapo Room in the University of Michigan-Flint Library
Thalner Electronic Laboratories, Inc., Ann Arbor
an EECO port time code generator for Schembechler Hall


50




September Meeting, 1993


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Patricia M. Butler, Milan                Mardigian Foundation, Southfield
Carex Health Care Products, Newark, NJ   Kenneth R. Mayne, Ann Arbor
Bly A. Coring, Flint                     Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, NC
Fred D. Davis, Jr., Ann Arbor            Merkel Furniture, Chelsea
Robert C. Dufort, Ann Arbor              Douglas E. Miller, Flushing
Earthly Arts, Imlay City                 John W. Mosser, Portage
Kenneth C. Fischer, Ann Arbor            Mark F. O'Brien, Ann Arbor
Peter N. Heydon, Ann Arbor               Mary Sponberg Pedley, Ann Arbor
Sharon M. Katt, Canton                   J. C. Penney Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
Steven L. Kuzma, Ann Arbor               Helen A. Peters, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Anthony M. Bloch, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 1994
Seigo Izumo, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine
Ann L. Milroy, Ph.D., Professor of Linguistics, September 1, 1994
Charlotte Stokes, Ph.D., Professor of Art History and Associate Dean, College of Arts and
Sciences, UM-Flint, three-year term, August 23, 1993
Valentine I. Zakharov, Ph.D., Professor of Physics
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1993
John W. Smith II, M.Do, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, one year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Mathew Alpern, Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics in the Departments of
Ophthalmology and Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to
active status, one-year term, July 1, 1993
Donald R. Brown, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Director, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, appointment extended,
as Director, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, two-month term
Harm Buning, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, reappointed to active status,
fall term
Edward H. Cooper, Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law and Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs, Law School, reappointed Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law, five-year term
David G. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed
to active status, one-year term
Alfred L. Edwards, Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Susan M. Eklund, Associate Dean for Student Affairs, Admissions, and Operations, Law School,
reappointed Associate Dean for Student Affairs, Admissions, and Operations, Law School,
three-year term, July 1, 1993


51




September Meeting, 1993


Aaron Finerman, Director Emeritus of the Computing Center and Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed to active status, one-year term
Lois W. Gage, Professor Emeritus of Nursing, reappointed to active status, academic year
Virginia B. Gordan, Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, Law School, reappointed Assistant Dean
for Student Affairs, Law School, three-year term
George I. Haddad, Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, and Chair, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
reappointed Chair, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
three-year term, January 1, 1994
Keith S. Henley, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, July 1, 1993
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, one-year term, July 1, 1993
Samuel P. Hicks, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, one-year term
Herbert W. Johe, Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed
to active status, fall term
A Richard Krachenberg, Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Dearborn, reappointed to
active status, academic year
Bert N. LaDu, Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, reappointed to active status, one-year term,
July 1, 1993
William M. Marsh, Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Resource and Community Science, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair, Department of Resource
and Community Science, three-year term, July 1, 1993
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to active status, six-month
term, January 1, 1994
Robert C. Metcalf, Dean Emeritus and Emil Lorch Professor Emeritus of Architecture and
Urban Planning, reappointed to active status, fall term
Harrison L. Morton, Professor of Forest Pathology, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, three-year term, July 1, 1993
Dale L. Oxender, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, retroactive reappointment to
active status, August 1, 1990-June 30 1994
Donald J. Patterson, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, reappointed to active
status, fall term
Valener L. Perry, Assistant Dean for Student Services, College of Pharmacy, reappointed
Assistant Dean for Student Services, College of Pharmacy, five-year term
Glenda Radine, Interim Director, University of Michigan Extension Service, reappointed Interim
Director, University of Michigan Extension Service, two-year term, July 1, 1993
Maxwell 0. Reade, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, university
year
Robert W. Schmidt, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, August 1, 1993
David Schoem, Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, reappointed Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, three-year term, January 1, 1994
William S. Smith, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, one-year term,
March 1, 1993
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status, academic year
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, July 1, 1993
Keshav S. Varde, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School
of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, three-year term
Andrew S. Watson, Professor Emeritus of Law and Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry,
reappointed to active status, fall term
John P. Weidenbach, Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, appointment extended, six-month
term, January 1, 1994
David L. Wolfe, Associate Professor Emeritus of Spanish, reappointed to active status,
fall term
Charles S. Wolfson, Professor Emeritus of Social Work, reappointed to active status,
fall term


52




September Meeting, 1993


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
John C. Bell, Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting Chair, Department
of Theatre, UM-Flint, winter term, January 1, 1994
Constance E. Cook, from Executive Assistant to the President, Office of the President, and
Associate Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, to Director
Designate, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, and Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure, School of Education, September 1-October 31, 1993, and
Director, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, and Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure, School of Education, November 1,1993-June 30, 1998
Thomas N. Filson, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Acting Chair, Department of Education, UM-Flint, academic year
Brooks B. Hull, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, also appointed
Acting Chair, Department of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn, fall term
Richard 0. Lempert, Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and
Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Acting Chair, Department of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 7, 1993-June 30, 1994
Betsy Lozoff, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
also appointed Director, Center for Human Growth and Development, October 1, 1993 -August 31, 1998
Jonathan Maybaum, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure
Arnold S. Monto, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Professor of Population Planning
and International Health, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Population Planning and International Health, one-year term, October 1, 1993
Helen J. Morley, Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, also appointed Acting Director,
English Language Institute, winter term, January 1, 1994
Frederick C. Neidhardt, from Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs,
Medical School, to Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate Vice President for Research,
October 1, 1993-August 31, 1998
Paul E. O'Donnell, Associate Professor of Foreign Language, with tenure, UM-Flint, also
appointed Chair, Department of Foreign Language, UM-Flint, two and one-half year term,
January 1, 1994
Lawrence S. Root, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, also appointed
Director, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, three-year term
LEAVES OF ABSENCE EXTENSIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Spilios D. Fassois, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, leave
without salary extended, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Sivana T. Heller, M. D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, educational leave extended,
July 1, 1993-June 30, 1994
Laura E. Kodres, Assistant Professor of Finance, contract leave extended, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Philip G. Alston, Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law, fall term
Aharon Barak, L. Bates Lea Visiting Professor of Law, fall term


53




September Meeting, 1993


Richard E. Corpron, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, also appointed the Marcus L. Ward
Professor of Dentistry, five-year term
Neil P. Dummigan, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, three-year
term
John D. Forsyth, Executive Director, University of Michigan Hospitals, appointment extended,
December 1, 1995-August 31, 1999
Walter L. Harrison, from Executive Director of University Relations to Vice President for
University Relations, five-year term
James E. Krier, Earl Warren DeLano Professor of Law, reappointed the Earl Warren DeLano
Professor of Law, five-year term
Richard I. Laugesen, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, three-year
term
Susan S. Lipschutz, from Assistant Vice Provost for Academic Affairs and Senior Associate Dean,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies to Associate Provost, November 1, 1993 -June 30, 1998
Hazel J. Markus, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed the Helen Peak Professor
of Psychology, five-year term
Jessica Mitford, Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, October 31-November 20, 1993
Derek Parfit, James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence, fall term
M. Joseph Roberson, from Associate Vice President for Development to Director of
Intercollegiate Athletics, three year term, July 1, 1994
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., from Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Profesor of
Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration, to Provost and
Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Professor of Business Administration,
with tenure, School of Business Administration
Farris W. Womack, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Professor of Education,
without tenure, School of Education, reappointed Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, five year term, July 1, 1993; and, from Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education to Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School
of Education
Robert W. and Lynn H. Brown Professorship in Science. The Regents approved the establishment of the Robert W. and Lynn H. Browne Professorship in Science effective September 1, 1993.
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
James R. Beuche, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
C. E. Frazer Clark, Jr., reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Bly A Corning, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Thomas N. Cross, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Duane N. Diedrich, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Stephen Hamp, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Harlan H. Hatcher, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Walter Hayes, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Peter N. Heydon, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Sally Kennedy, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Thomas C. Kingsley, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
James M. Klancnik, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Philip P. Mason, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Richard A. Pohrt, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Jacob M. Price, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Harold T. Shapiro, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Elizabeth Stranahan, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994


54




September Meeting, 1993


Bradley M. Thompson, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Cleveland Thurber, Jr., reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
David Upton, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
John D. Wheeler, reappointment, one-year term ending September 30, 1994
Clements Library Committee of Management
Cleveland Thurber, Jr., retroactive reappointment from July 1, 1991, to June 30, 1995
Robert M. Warner, four-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Wilbur K. Pierpont, resigned
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Frank J. Ascione, eleven-month term ending June 30, 1994, vice Duane M. Kirking, sabbatical
leave
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Yousif B. Ghafari, four-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Charles G. Adams, term expired
Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
John H. Campbell, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Vejayan Krishnan, M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Denis Muhlstein, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Kenneth W. Stoffers, D.M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Michael A Sulfaro, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Domenica G. Sweier, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 23,1993
George W. Taylor, M.P.H., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, July 1, 1993
School of Education
Eric L. Dey, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Elizabeth A Finkel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Earl S. Fletcher, MA, Instructor in Education
Henry 0. Meares, Ed.D., Instructor in Education, July 1, 1993
College of Engineering
Peter M. Chen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Farnam Jahanian, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Susan M. Montgomery, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering
Fred C. Ward, Jr., M.S., Lecturer II in Technical Communication
School of Information and Library Studies
John K. Foster, BA, Lecturer in Information and Library Studies
Law School
Steven P. Croley, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, July 1, 1993
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Yasuko Aizawa, BA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, June 1, 1993
Keith L. T. Alexander, M.FA, Lecturer II in Conceptual Art
Vera M. Andrushldw, MA., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures
Debbie L. Barks, MA, Lecturer II in English
Adele M. Barres, M.FA, Lecturer II in Ceramics
Gabriel Berger, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Eduardo Bonilla-Silva, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Afroamerican and African
Studies


55




September Meeting, 1993


David R. Borthwick, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Zdenka Brodska, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Czechoslovakian Literature
Maria E. Caballero-Robb, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
William A. Cherry, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Hilary U. Cohen, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Edwin J. Davenport, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Michel A. F. DeGraff, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Cynthia S. Deitering, MA, Lecturer II in English
Elizabeth R. Dunn, MA, Lecturer II in History of Art
Serge Elnitsky, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Mark S. Freyberg, Lecturer II in Sociology, January 1, 1994
Martha H. Gach, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology
Edward R. Goetze, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Richard A Goldstein, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Lynn C. Gorell, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish Linguistics
Brenda K Gunderson, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Statistics
Allison L. Hersh, PhoD., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Juli A Highfill, MA, Assistant Professor of Spanish
Everett W. Howe, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Iztok Hozo, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Susan M. Juster, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
David J. Kausch, Ph.D., Lecturer II of Mathematics
Ellen A Kramarow, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Maria Krysan, AM., Lecturer II in Sociology, July 1, 1993
Gene L. Laskowsld, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Olga Lopez-Cotin, Licenciatura, Lecturer II in Spanish Language and Literature
Shenglin Lu, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Mario L. Mateo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy
Scott I. McLetchie, BA, Lecturer II in Classical Studies, July 1, 1993
Yuri Miloslavsky, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Slavic Linguistics, July 1, 1993
Barbara J. Monroe, Ph.D., Lecturer III in English
Gail M. Nomura, Ph.D., Lecturer III in History, Program in American Culture, and Lecturer in
History, Residential College
Reiko Ohnuma, MA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures
Yasuhio Omoto, MA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, June 1, 1993
Victor V. Pambuccian, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Dana Rapisardi, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Rebecca G. Reed, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English
Aaron Roth, BA, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Tamao Shimoyama, MA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, June 1, 1993
Richard C. Smith, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Christopher W. Towse, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
James E. West, MA, Lecturer II in Economics
Amrih Widodo, MA, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Tadeusz Witkowski, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures
Medical School
H. Alexander Arts, M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, August 2, 1993
Angus T. Baird, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Avinash R. A Balkissoon, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Frank S. Becker M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Janet S. Biermann, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery
Louis J. Brisson, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Steven R. Buchman, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 4,1993
Michael J. Caplan, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, August 15, 1993
William D. Chey, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
John R. DeQuardo M.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 1, 1993
Jeffrey S. Desmond, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1993
James E. Dillon, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, July 1, 1993
Marie A DiNome, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1993
Parvin C. Dorostkar, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1993
Frances A Farley, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery
Katherine K Farries, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993


56




September Meeting, 1993


A_ Mark Fendrick, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Karen R. Fonde, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 1, 1993
Sasan Ghaffari, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Rachel L. Glick, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, July 15, 1993
L. John Greenfield, Jr., M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology, July 1, 1993
Joel K. Greenson, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, August 1, 1993
Cynthia M. Gregg, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1993
Ester P. Grimaldi, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
David E. Gutsch, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Hilary M. Haftel, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1993
Pamela R. Henderson, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7,1993
John D. Hummel, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Mark D. Iannettoni, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1993
Michele L. Jaffe, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Harriet A Jakob, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Michael D. Jibson, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, July 1, 1993
Lynn K. Joynt, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1993
Gregory J. Katz, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1993
Robert B. Kiningham, M.D., Lecturer in Family Practice, July 1, 1993
Jerome J. Kukor, Ph.D., Lecturer in Microbiology and Immunology, August 1, 1993
Howard Markel, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1993
Mohammed M. Moursi, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1993
Audrey R. Newell, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, August 1, 1993
Thomas Pranikoff, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1,1993
Martin R. Prince, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology
Edwardo Ramos-Cortes, M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 5, 1993
Leela N. Rao, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Eric 0. Ridings, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
July 26, 1993
Theodore L. Roumell, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 12, 1993
Thomas A. Rozanski, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1993
Michael S. Ruddat, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1993
James J. Ryan, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Oren Sagher, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 15, 1993
William E. Smoyer, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1993
Kerstin M. Stenson, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1993
Susan A Stern, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 1, 1993
Richard P. Taylor, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1993
Stephan F. Taylor, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, July 1, 1993
Linda B. Terrell, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1993
Jeffrey E. Terrell, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, August 2, 1993
Giovana R. Thomas, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1993
Neal D. Uitvlugt, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1993
Cosmas J. M. Van de Ven, M.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1993
Wendy Watson, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 9, 1993
Charles M. Watts, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Robert A Weatherly, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, August 9, 1993
William A. Wertheim, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
Jerome Wilborn, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1993
School of Music
Robert F. Dennis, B.FA., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama
P. Andrew Hisey, BRMus., Lecturer in Piano Pedagogy
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Heather A Clendenin, M.LA, Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture
Kenrick I. Grandison, M.LA, Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, August 1, 1993


57




September Meeting, 1993


School of Nursing
Theresa S. Foley, Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing
Carlene C. Nelson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, August 1, 1993
Margaret Scisney-Matlock, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
College of Pharnmacy
Cesar Alaniz, PharrLD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Susan K. Bickley, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Betty J. Chaffee, PharmnD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Bruce W. Chaffee, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Catherine Christen, Pharm-D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Carol L. Collins-Knaggs, PharrmD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Laura A. Cornish, PharnmD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Patricia Couch, Pharm-D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Jill M. Johnson, B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Nabil Khalidi, PharmnD., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Ujjaini B. Khanderia, PharmLD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Nancy A. Mason, PharmD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Dayna L. McCauley, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Patricia A Montgomery, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Maria L. Partipilo, PharrmD., Clinical Instructor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Ted L. Rice, M.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Michael L. Ryan, PharrmD., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Rivka Siden, Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Janice L. Stumpf, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Burgunda V. Sweet, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Roberta Tankanow, M.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Kevin A. Townsend, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Eric W. Warren, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
Patricia S. Woster, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 1, 1993
School of Public Health
Gregory V. Button, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration
Susan M. Caumartin, Ph.D., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education
Richard A. Hirth, BA, Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy
School of Social Work
Ron A. Astor, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Assistant
Professor of Education, School of Education
UM.Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Joe H. Lunn, MA, Lecturer in History
Michael J. Rosano, MA, Lecturer in Political Science
Donna P. Wasserman, MA, Lecturer in Political Science
James R. Woodland, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Composition and Rhetoric, July 1, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Andrew C. Bartlett, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Robert H. Schappe, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Mark W. Abolton, MA, Assistant Professor of Music
David J. Carlyon, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Theatre
Parviz Daneshgari, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Engineering Science
Jennifer C. Olmsted, M.S., Lecturer in Economics
Lemeil A. Pierre, MA, Lecturer in Foreign Languages
Judy V. Rosenthal, MA, Lecturer in Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work
Michael J. Schroeder, BA, Lecturer in History
Jadwiga T. Sipowska, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry


58




September Meeting, 1993


UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Jackie F. Dalton, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992
College ofLiterature. Science, and the Arts
Jacqueline A Stevens, MA, Instructor in Political Science (previously reported as Assistant
Professor of Political Science)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Aaron Ahuvia, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing, September 1, 1993
Paul E. Sweeney, from Assistant Professor to Visiting Assistant Professor II of Operations
Management
School of Dentistry
Patricia A Bauer, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Kent J. Benham, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, August 24, 1993
Edward J. Billy, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Roger L. Bookwalter, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Patricia D. Bouman, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dental Hygiene, September 1, 1993
Ralph R. Bozell III, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Henry E. Brandau, from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry
Eugene J. Buatti, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Charles E. Duncan, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Alayne S. Evans, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Dennis J. Fasbinder, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Thomas R. Gebeck, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Jeri K. Gonta, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dental Hygiene, September 1, 1993
Linda M. Gray, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dental Hygiene, September 1, 1993
William A. Gregory, from Lecturer to Clinical Professor II of Dentistry
David R. Grife, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, August 24, 1993
Mark R. Hanselman, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Gregory A. Hummon, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Wesley R. Ichesco, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Allan Jacobs, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
James D. Kohler, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
William J. Lamb, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Michael B. Lindemann, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Sepideh Meshinchi, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
George Moricz, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Rodney P. Paladino, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Thomas D. Pappert, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Brant S. Pittsley, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Elda P. Ricalde, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Philip S. Richards, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Christopher A. Roberts, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Michael J. Sharp, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Mary J. Showers, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, August 24, 1993
Anna B. Visger, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, August 24, 1993
Mary H. G. Walton, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993
Philip C. Warren, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1993


59




September Meeting, 1993


Michael S. Wojcik, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Deborah A. Zahn-Simmons, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dental Hygiene,
September 1, 1993
College of Engineering
Candace A. Yano, from Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with
tenure, to Adjunct Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
September 1, 1993
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Douglas J. Eernisse, from Assistant Professor of Biology to Lecturer II in Biology,
September 1, 1993
Medical School
Frederick K Askari, from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine
John D. E. Barks, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Paul J. Christensen, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Michael J. Coffey, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Vincent R. De Las Alas, from Lecturer to Visiting Lecturer in Anesthesiology
James E. Dillon, from Instructor to Visiting Lecturer II in Psychiatry, September 1, 1992
Mary C. Fromes, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1991
Hope K Haefner, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Hilary Haftel, from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Lecturer in Internal
Medicine and Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Timothy P. Hofer, from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine
Satoshi Minushima, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Samya Z. Nasr, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Clark E. Nugent, from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 1, 1993
Margaret R. Punch, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Elisabeth H. Quint, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Rodolfo F. H. Rasche, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology,
August 1, 1993
Amy F. Saunders from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine
Cynthia N. Steimie, from Lecturer in Surgery to House Officer, June 30, 1993
S. Adam Strickberger, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
School of Nursing
Judith M. Lynch-Sauer, from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Lecturer in Nursing,
January 1, 1994
Pamela J. Rowsey, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, September 1, 1993
School of Public Health
Michael E. Chernew, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Health Services Management and
Policy
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Joe H. Lunn, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of History, September 1, 1993
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
PROMOTION JOINT APPOINTMENT OR TRANSFER
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993
UM-Flint College of Arts and Science
Anthony D. McGill, from Assistant Professor of English to Lecturer in English


60




September Meeting, 1993


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Hemalata Dandekar, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Linda N. Groat, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Kent F. Kleinman, Assistant Professor of Architecture, leave without salary, October 1 -December 31, 1993
John D. Nystuen, Professor of Urban Geography and Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1994
James C. Snyder, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Katharine P. Warner, Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
School of Art
Hiroko S. Pijanowski, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
1993
Paul L. Stewart, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Georgette M. Zirbes, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
1993
School of Business Administration
Elazar Berkovitch, Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
David J. Brophy, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Michael D. Gordon, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Ronen Israel, Assistant Professor of Finance, leave without salary, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
E. Han Kim, Professor of Finance, with tenure, and Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
David L. Lewis, Professor of Business History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Barbara J. Mace, Assistant Professor of Business Economics, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Debra E. Meyerson, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, leave without salary, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Robert E. Thomas, Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Business Law, School of
Business Administration, and Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, leave without salary September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Youjae Yi, Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
School of Dentistry
John F. Corcoran, Jr., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, phased retirement, August 1, 1992 -June 30, 1996
School of Education
Robert T. Blackburn, Professor of Higher Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Charles P. Kearney, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Milan Marich, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1~
May 31, 1994
Paul R. Pintrich, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993


61




September Meeting, 1993


College of Engineering
William J. Anderson, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1994
Yavuz A Bozer, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Donald T. Greenwood, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Glen E. Johnson, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Movses J. Kaldjian, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Charles W. Kauffman, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, duty off
campus, September 1, 1993-January 31, 1994, and leave without salary, February 1o
May 31, 1994
Stephane LaFortune, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Robert D. Pehlke, Professor of Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
Kenneth G. Powell, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
Richard E. Robertson, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1994
Phillip E. Savage, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
David J. Srolovitz, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Duncan G. Steel, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, and Professor of Physics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Gretar Tryggvason, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Gregory H. Wakefield, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Henry Y. Wang, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Raymond A. Yagle, Professor of Navel Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1993-May 31, 1994
Robert M. Ziff, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Division of Kinesiology
Bruce A Watkins, Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, contract leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Phyllis S. Weikart, Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Law School
David L. Chambers III, Wade H. McCree Jr. Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, contract
leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Phoebe C. Ellsworth, Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Samuel R. Gross, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Jerold H. Israel, Alene and Allen F. Smith Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1994
Avery Katz, Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Larry B. Kramer, Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994


62




September Meeting, 1993


Jeffrey S. Lehman, Professor of Law and Public Policy, with tenure, contract leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Catharine A. Mackinnon, Professor of Law, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -November 7, 1993 and November 20, 1993-May 31, 1994
Sallyanne Payton, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Joel Seligman, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Kent D. Syverud, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
James J. White, Robert A. Sullivan Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1994
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Elizabeth S. Anderson, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
William R. Anderson, Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Director of the Herbarium,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1994
Patrice S. Beddor, Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Kenneth G. Binmore, Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Andreas R. Blass, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1~
December 31, 1993
Elsa B. Brown, Instructor in History and Afroamerican and African Studies, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Stephen L. Darwall, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Roger E. David, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1993 -June 30, 1994
Robert F. Dernberger, Professor of Economics, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1995
Igor Dolgachev, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Cristina I. Draghicescu, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Steven N. Dworldn, Professor of Romance Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Jacquelynne S. Eccles, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, leave without
salary, July 1-30, 1993
Eduard Harabetian, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Sharon C. Herbert, Professor of Classical Archaeology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1994
Erich P. Hofacker, Jr., Assistant Professor of German, duty off campus, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Warren G. Holmes, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Assya K. Humesky, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Lemuel A Johnson, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, extended sick
leave, September 22-December 31, 1993
Robert W. Keener, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
William C. Kelly, C. Scott Turner Professor of Geological Sciences, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-August 31, 1994
Robert Krasny, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Randy J. Larsen, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1~
December 31, 1993
John T. Lehman, Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Clifford S. Leonard, Jr., Associate Professor of Romance Linquistics, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
James A Levinsohn, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994


63




September Meeting, 1993


William G. Lockwood, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
Donald S. Lopez, Jr., Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Jeffrey K Mackie-Mason, Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, leave
without salary, September 1-December 31, 1993, and sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,1994
Victor H. Miesel, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1 -December 31, 1993, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1994
Rudolph Mrazek, Assistant Professor of History, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31,1994
Donna K Nagata, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,1994
Roy J. Nelson, Professor of French, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Warren T. Norman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -October 31, 1994
Christopher M. Peterson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Tahir M. Rizki, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1994
George J. Sanchez, Associate Professor of History and American Culture, with tenure, leave
without salary, January 1-May 31, 1994
Daniel Sinclair, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1996
Richard G. Teske, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Gernot L. Windfuhr, Professor of Iranian Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,1994
Henry T. Wright, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Rafia M. Zafar, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, extended sick leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993
Rebecca Zurier, Assistant Professor of History of Art, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Medical School
Robert H. Beekman III, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, July 1-October 31, 1993, and December 1, 1993-January 31, 1994
Walter A Castelli, Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1993 -August 31, 1994
A. Kent Christensen, Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1993
Lyubica Dabich, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement furlough,
July 1, 1993-June 30, 1994
Roger G. Faix, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1994
Janet L. Kuhn, Assistant Professor of Surgery, leave without salary, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1994
Gordon L. Nordby, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, retirement
furlough, October 1, 1993-September 30, 1994
Robert U. Simpson, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
April 5-July 25,1993
Hong N. Yeung, Associate Professor of Radiologic Sciences, without tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-August 31, 1994
Vincent G. Zannoni, Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Environmental and Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public Health, retirement
furlough, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1994
School of Music
William H. Albright, Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Richard Crawford, Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994


64




September Meeting, 1993


Gay A. Delanghe, Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in
Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Erik Fredricksen, Associate Professor of Theatre (Acting), with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Theatre and Drama, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
William P. Malm, Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, retirement
furlough, January 1-December 31, 1994
Stuart Sankey, Professor of Music (Double Bass), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Martha J. Shell, Associate Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Peter D. Sparling, Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Dance,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Jonathan W. Bulkley, Professor of Resource Policy, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Heather A. Clendenin, Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Robert E. Grese, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
School of Nursing
Mary A. Broda, Assistant Professor of Nursing, leave without salary, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Carolyn M. Sampselle, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
College of Pharmacy
Gordon L. Flynn, Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1993
Sally K Guthrie, Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, and Assistant Professor
of Pharmacy, Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, duty off campus, June 13 -August 6,1993
Duane M. Kirtdng, Associate Professor of Pharmacy Administration, with tenure, College of
Pharmacy, and Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, without
tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, August 1, 1993-July 31, 1994
School of Public Health
Michael L. Boehnke, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31,1994
Thomas A D'Aunno, Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Betsy Foxmnan, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Walter N. Piper, Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, School of Public Health and Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Barry G. Rabe, Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Thomas G. Robins, Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of Public
Health, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Scott K Simonds, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, and
Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, without tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
School of Social Work
Valire C. Copeland, Assistant Professor of Social Work, leave without salary, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994


65




September Meeting, 1993


Edith A Lewis, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Ira M. Schwartz, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Edwin J. Thomas, Fedele F. Fauri Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Sidney M. Bolkosky, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1994
Donald J. Bord, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
James W. Brown, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1994
John G. Constant, Associate Professor of Music History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Constance A Flanagan, Assistant Professor of Psychology, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -April 30, 1994
Neil M. Flax, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Robert W. Hymes, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1994
Noriko Kamachi, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Dennis R. Papazian, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
F. J. Papp, Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Richard A Potts, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Michael J. Schneider, Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1994
Ronald R. Stockton, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Selim S. Awad, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
John W. Miller, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Elsayed A Orady, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-April 30, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Thomas A Bloom, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Mary E. Cox, Professor of Physics and Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Physics/Engineering Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Harry K. Edwards, Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Raymond Y. Fadous, Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Thomas C. Foster, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Carolyn M. Gillespie, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Theatre, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Larry King, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Neil 0. Leighton, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Paul E. O'Donnell, Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993


66




September Meeting, 1993


Lester N. Oaklander, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Philosophy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Albert C. Price, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Edward E. Sullivan, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Education,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Reinhard H. Thum, Professor of German, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Kenneth B. West, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Richard E. Darnell, Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, May 1 -June 3, 1993, and September 1-December 31, 1993
George F. Lord III, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Carl H. Rinne, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Patricia C. O'Brien, Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure, contract leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994 (previously reported as leave without salary)
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Nelson J. Moe, Instructor in Italian, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
(previously reported as leave without salary)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
William R. Farrand, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure (previously reported as
retirement furlough, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Marjorie Levy, Professor of Art, with tenure
Francis P. Nunoo-Quarcoo, Assistant Professor of Art
Duane M. Palyka, Assistant Professor of Art, May 31, 1993
School of Business Administration
Fred D. Davis, Jr., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems, July 31, 1993
Robert C. Lipe, Assistant Professor of Accounting, May 31, 1993
Evelyn R. Patterson, Assistant Professor of Accounting
Elizabeth A Stevens, Lecturer in Business Communications, April 30, 1993
School of Dentistry
Tamara J. Bauer, Lecturer in Dentistry
David S. Carlson, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, Professor of Anatomy
and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Anthropology, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 31, 1993
Robert G. Craig, Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, August 31, 1993
Robert J. Mondragon, Lecturer in Dentistry
Bonnie A Pounder, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1993
Michelle B. Speier, Lecturer in Dentistry


67




September Meeting, 1993


College of Engneering
Donald J. Portman, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
May 31, 1993
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Christa E. M. Campbell, Lecturer I in Spanish, May 31, 1993
Peter A Cholak, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, July 31, 1993
Carmen L. Cross, Lecturer I in Spanish, May 31, 1993
Zhiren Jin, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1993
Smadar Karni, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1993
Jan Kmenta, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure,
May 31, 1993
Mary C. McKitrick, Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator of Birds
Yair N. Minsky, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1993
Kaori K. Ohara, Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, May 31, 1993
Sayhyon Park, Lecturer II in Korean, May 31, 1993
Mark Randolph, Lecturer I in English, May 31, 1993
Gull-Maj L. Roberts, Lecturer II in Chemistry, July 31, 1993
Robert L. Shaffer, Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor of Fungal
Taxonomy, with tenure, and Curator of Fungi, August 31, 1993
Judith H. Silverman, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1993
Gregory R. Snow, Assistant Professor of Physics, August 15, 1993
Claude M. Steele, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, May 31, 1993
Richard G. Teske, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, May 31, 1993
Ernest J. Wilson III, Associate Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure,
May 31, 1993
Medical School
Allan R. Beaudoin, Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, August 31, 1993
Bahri M. Bilir, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
David A. Boothman, Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology
Steven E. Brooks, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1993
Han-Pu Chao, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 15, 1993
Frederick L. Dunn, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, July 31, 1993
Mark E. Gormley, Jr., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Kimberly M. Greenwald, Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Herbert F. Gretz III, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology
John M. Ham, Instructor in Surgery, June 28, 1993
Curtis A Hanson, Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure
Yvonne M. Hauge, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 25, 1993
Keith S. Henley, Professor of Internal Medicine
David R. Jacobi, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, August 10, 1993
Ian H. Kaden, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1993
Aviva L. Katz, Lecturer in Surgery
David M. Katz, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1993
Ricardo V. Lloyd, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Alfred Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon
Weller Professor of Pathology, July 15, 1993
Flavian M. Lupinetti, Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 2, 1993
Mary D. Lupinetti, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
John D. McAllister, Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Andrew P. Metinko, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Joseph Muenzer, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 15, 1993
Michael W. Naylor, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, August 10, 1993
Michael L. Ritchey, Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 31, 1993
Wilson H. Y. Roa, Lecturer in Radiation Oncology
Siv B. Saetre, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1993
Alan E. Schlesinger, Assistant Professor of Radiology, August 31, 1993
Paula C. Schlesinger, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 6, 1993
Joseph A Schwartz, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 16, 1993
James E. Shipley, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 7, 1993


68




September Meeting, 1993


Sharon H. Smith, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 16, 1993
Martin J. Stevens, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Hassan N. Taki, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 31, 1993
Amir Tavakkol, Lecturer in Dermatology, August 15, 1993
Daniel G. Walsh, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Ming R. Wang, Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Thomas A Whitehill, Lecturer in Surgery
School of Music
David D. Gregory, Associate Professor of Music (Computer Arts), with tenure, May 31, 1993
School of Nursing
Karen E. Hall, Lecturer in Nursing, May 31, 1993
Elisabeth A Pennington, Assistant Professor of Nursing and Associate Dean for Graduate
Studies, School of Nursing, November 30, 1993
Mary Ann P. Swain, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and Associate Vice
President for Academic Affairs, August 13, 1993
School of Public Health
John H. Romani, Professor of Public Health Administration, with tenure, September 30, 1993
Michael W. Shaw, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, July 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Management
William 0. Stratton, Associate Professor of Business Administration, without tenure,
June 30, 1993
Daniel L. Tompkins, Instructor in Business Administration, August 31, 1993
UM-Flint School of Management
Joann L. Asquith, Assistant Professor of Management
CORRECTIONS TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Dentistry
Kazumasa Kaya, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1993 (retired, previously reported as resigned)
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Paul R. Wheaton, Lecturer in Business Administration, June 30, 1993 (retired, previously
reported as term complete)
Retirement Memoirs
Allan R. Beaudoin, professor of anatomy and cell biology, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1993, after a productive and balanced career of
teaching, research, and administration at the University of Michigan.
A native of Connecticut, Professor Beaudoin received his B.S. degree in 1949
and his M.S. degree in 1951 from the University of Connecticut and his Ph.D. degree in 1954 from the State University of Iowa. He was an instructor at Vassar
College from 1954-56 and an instructor and then assistant professor at the University of Florida from 1956-61. He joined the University of Michigan as assistant
professor of anatomy in 1961. He was promoted to associate professor in 1964
and professor in 1969.
During his tenure at the University of Florida, Professor Beaudoin became
associated with some of the pioneer researchers in the field of experimental teratology, and this provided the basis for his scientific career. When he moved to the
University of Michigan, he continued his research in experimental teratology and


69




September Meeting, 1993


taught medical histology and embryology. On several occasions Professor Beaudoin was also called upon to serve in departmental administrative posts, including acting chair of the department (1977-78) and interim chair (1986-89).
Professor Beaudoin's professional contributions have been well recognized
locally and nationally. He has served on many national panels and review groups
and has been elected to many offices of the Teratology Society, including president in 1978-79. His research has been reported in numerous peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Allan R. Beaudoin professor emeritus of anatomy and cell
biology.
LeVerne S. Collet, professor of education, retired from active faculty
status on July 31, 1993, after 25 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Born in Canada, Professor Collet received his B.Ed. and M.Ed. degrees from
the University of Alberta in 1956 and 1964, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Washington in 1968. From 1955-68, he served successively
as a classroom teacher, assistant principal and guidance counselor, and acting
principal at Wilson Junior High School in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada. Professor
Collet joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Education as an
assistant professor in 1968; he was promoted to associate professor in 1972 and
professor in 1977.
During his years with the School of Education, Professor Collet taught
courses in research design, measurement, and program evaluation. He provided
extensive assistance to students and colleagues in designing research methodologies and conducting empirical research and field evaluations of educational programs. He has also served on the school's Curriculum Committee, Research
Coordinating Committee, and Executive Committee.
Professor Collet has also been very active in professional organizations, including the Association for Supervision and Curriculum and the National Council on Measurement in Education and has regularly presented papers at the
annual meetings of the American Educational Research Association. He has produced program evaluation reports for such groups as the Kennedy Center PreVocational Training Program, the National Kidney Foundation of Michigan's
School Blood Pressure Program, and the Ferndale School District's Program for
Academic Challenge and Enrichment. He has also served as a consultant for
Domino's Pizza, Inc., the Republic Steel Corporation, and the Howell Public
Schools.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming LeVerne S. Collet
professor emeritus of education.
Robert G. Craig, Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1993.
Professor Craig received his B.S. degree in 1944, his M.S. degree in 1951,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1954, all from the University of Michigan. He worked as
a researcher for two companies in New York State before joining the University
of Michigan in 1955 as a research associate in the Engineering Research Institute. He joined the faculty of the School of Dentistry as an assistant professor in


70




September Meeting, 1993


1957 and was promoted to associate professor in 1961 and professor in 1965. He
also served as chair of the Dental Materials Department from 1969-87.
Since coming to the University, Professor Craig has distinguished himself as
a dental scholar, researcher, administrator, and teacher, who has had a direct impact on the practice of dentistry worldwide. He is the editor of Restorative Dental
Materials, 9th edition (1993) and co-author of Dental Materials: Properties and
Manipulation, 5th edition (1992), two books used as texts and references
throughout the world, as well as co-author of seven other textbooks and author
of over 250 publications in scientific journals. His main research interests include
biocompatibility of materials, properties of polymers (both elastomers and composites), surface effects of materials, and experimental stress analysis.
Professor Craig has served on almost all of the standing committees within
the School of Dentistry and has served as a member and chair of the University's
Budget Priorities Committee. He is active in many professional organizations,
has served on the editorial boards of the Journal of Oral Implantology and the
Journal of Oral Rehabilitation, and has been the assistant editor of the Journal
of Biomedical Materials since 1983. Among his honors are the prestigious Wilmer Souder Award in Dental Materials (1975), the Clemson Award for Basic Research in Biomaterials (1978), and the Hollenback Memorial Prize from the
Academy of Operative Dentistry (1991). He was awarded an honorary degree by
the University of Geneva in Switzerland in 1989 and was named the Marcus L.
Ward Professor of Dentistry at the University of Michigan in 1990.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences editor by naming
Robert G. Craig the Marcus L. Ward Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Whitmore Gray, professor of law, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1993, after a distinguished, 33-year career of teaching and research.
Born in Monroe, Michigan, in 1932, Professor Gray received his A.B. degree
from Princpia College in 1954 and his J.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1957. While in law school, he served as editor-in-chief of the Michigan
Law Review. Following graduation, he studied at the University of Paris and
practiced law in New York City. He was awarded his LL.D. degree by Adrian College in 1982.
Professor Gray joined the faculty of the University of Michigan Law School
as an assistant professor in 1960; he was promoted to associate professor in 1963
and professor in 1966. He has held visiting appointments at a number of distinguished law schools on three continents, including the University of Tokyo.
Professor Gray's work as a scholar and teacher has focused on three main
areas: contract law, alternate dispute resolution, and comparative law. He has
compiled extensive sets of teaching materials in all of these fields. Professor Gray
was an early leader in teaching and writing about alternate dispute resolution,
and one of his articles on this subject has been reprinted in at least six sets of dispute resolution materials. His work in comparative law has helped to inform domestic audiences about the law of such countries as Russia, Japan, and China,
and also has helped to inform audiences in many other countries about the law of
the United States. Professor Gray's teaching is noteworthy for the remarkable
opportunities for individual student work and attention to his students that he
has provided. He has also been actively involved in many professional


71




September Meeting, 1993


organizations, enriching his own resources as a teacher and scholar and adding
luster to the University's reputation.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator by naming
Whitmore Gray professor emeritus of law.
Keith S. Henley, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 1993, after a notable career as a teacher, clinician, and
researcher.
Dr. Henley received his M.B.B.S. degree from King's College, University of
Durham, in England in 1948, his M.R.C.P. degree from the Royal College of Physicians in London in 1950, and his M.D. degree from the University of Durham
in 1957. From 1950-54 he trained in hospitals in West Africa and London before
emigrating to the United States and joining the University of Michigan as an instructor in the Department of Internal Medicine in 1954. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1956, associate professor in 1960, and professor in 1968.
Working with the late Dr. Marvin Pollard, Dr. Henley played a key role in
establishing one of the first divisions of gastroenterology in this country. He succeeded Dr. Pollard as chief of the Division of Gastroenterology in 1973. During
his tenure, Dr. Henley revitalized the division, creating a research environment
conducive for the recruitment of promising young investigators and providing
the foundation for the division's emergence as one of the nation's leading GI
programs.
Dr. Henley's pioneering work in the field of clinical enzymology resulted in
the identification of a marker for liver damage that is still widely used in clinical
practice to evaluate hepatocellular injury. Dr. Henley was among the first investigators to successfully isolate parenchymal cells from rat livers, and he performed
important metabolic studies defining the role of fat in the pathogenesis of
ethanol-induced liver injury. His study on the ammoniagenesis in the mitochondria of cirrhotic liver is considered a landmark paper, and his work on the effect
of ethanol on rat liver transaminase has helped elucidate the intracellular biochemical pathway by which ethanol produces damage to the liver. Using a rat
model, Dr. Henley established the association between total liver collagen formation and a serum marker of fibrogenesis, and identified prostaglandins as an inhibitor of collagen formation in experimental fibrogenesis in the rat.
An excellent clinician and inspiring teacher, Dr. Henley has trained many
academic hepatologists, some of whom have themselves gone on to become leaders in the field. He has also pioneered and developed one of the best liver transplant programs in the United States. Over the past three years, Dr. Henley has
single-handedly conducted the largest single-institution drug trial to evaluate the
effectiveness of prostaglandin in the prevention of rejection in liver transplantation; the results of his studies have far-reaching clinical implications in the handling of patients receiving liver transplants.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for his
dedicated service by naming Keith S. Henley professor emeritus of internal
medicine.


72




September Meeting, 1993


Jan Kmenta, professor of economics and professor of statistics, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after a most productive career in
teaching and research.
Bor in Prague, Czechoslovakia, Professor Kmenta attended the Czech University of Technology in Prague (1947-49) and the University of Sydney in Australia (1952-55), receiving his Bachelor of Economics degree from the latter in
1955. He then received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1958 and 1964, respectively, from Stanford University. He taught at the University of Wisconsin
(1964-65) and Michigan State University (1965-73) before joining the University
of Michigan as professor of economics in 1973. He received the additional appointment of professor of statistics in 1977. Professor Kmenta has been a visiting
professor at the universities of North Carolina, Bonn, Alberta, and the Saarland,
where he was awarded an honorary doctorate in 1989. He also spent a year as a
fellow of the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study in 1987-88.
Considered to be one of the foremost econometric theorists in the world,
Professor Kmenta published the definitive textbook on the subject, Elements of
Econometrics, in 1971. The second edition of that text, published in 1986, continues to be widely used in graduate-level courses and to be cited as the authoritative source for econometric methodology. In addition to this text, Professor
Kmenta is the author of numerous articles in the top journals of economics and
the editor of two books. He has an unsurpassed reputation for rigorous thinking
and attention to detail.
Professor Kmenta is best known for his detailed studies of the properties of
various econometric estimators; these include several series of papers reporting
the results of his substantial research on seemingly unrelated regressions, estimation with missing observations, and estimation of production functions. He
has served as associate editor of the Journal of the American Statistical Association and the Review of Economics and Statistics and is a fellow of the American
Statistical Association. Over the years, he has been a frequent participant in professional conferences and meetings all over the world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished economist for his dedicated service by naming Jan Kmenta professor emeritus of economics and professor emeritus of statistics.
Dale L. Oxender, professor of biological chemistry, retired from active faculty status on July 31, 1990, after a highly-productive career as a teacher and scientific investigator.
Professor Oxender received his AB. degree in chemistry from Manchester
College, North Manchester, Indiana in 1954, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from Purdue University in 1956 and 1959, respectively. He joined the University
of Michigan in 1958 as a research associate in the Department of Biological
Chemistry. He was promoted to instructor in 1959, assistant professor in 1963,
associate professor in 1967, and professor in 1975. He also served as director of
the Center of Molecular Genetics from 1986-90.
Professor Oxender has been vigorous in research and teaching, has contributed heavily to the present strength of the Department of Biological Chemistry,
and is known internationally for his innovative research contributions in the
areas of biochemistry of proteins, bacterial cell transport, and genetics.


73




September Meeting, 1993


Throughout his distinguished career, he has been dedicated both to being a conscientious and effective teacher and to improving the state of health and education of society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and health educator for
his dedicated service by naming Dale L. Oxender professor emeritus of biological
chemistry.
Donald J. Portman, professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after serving the University
and the college for almost 40 years.
Professor Portman received his B.S. degree in physics from the University of
Michigan in 1946 and his Ph.D. degree in physical sciences-micrometeorology
from Johns Hopkins University in 1955. Following a period of employment in industry, he returned to the University of Michigan in 1956 as a lecturer at the
Willow Run Laboratories. A founding member of the Department of Meteorology
and Oceanography, he was appointed professor of meteorology in 1962.
Professor Portman established one of the first courses in the then emerging
field of micrometeorology, stressing the need to compare theory with measurement through simple yet sophisticated experiments. Many of today's leaders in
the discipline were students in those early courses. In his weather and climate
course, he introduced many non-science majors in the University to the underlying scientific principles that control the atmosphere, stressing the insight that
can be gained from simple observations. Under his supervision, students in
weather forecasting were invited to prepare and present forecasts to participants
in soaring and hot air balloon meets, and in sailboat races, activities in which
their safety depends on accurate weather information. Professor Portman initiated a program which trained students for the media radio, television, and
newspapers.
Professor Portman's research in micrometeorology has contributed to the
understanding of the exchange of energy and momentum between the atmosphere and the surface of the earth and of the oceans. Professor Portman participated in the Great Plains Turbulence Program, an experimental program that is
still widely cited. Later, he was an investigator in the International Indian Ocean
Expedition and in the Barbados Oceanographic and Meteorological Expedition.
Closer to home, Professor Portman conducted measurements in the Keweenaw
Peninsula over snow and frozen ground. He is perhaps best known for his studies of turbulence through the optical propagation of a laser beam through the atmosphere. Professor Portman served as a consultant to industry on the dispersal
of pollutants from power plants.
Professor Portman's service included membership in SACUA for three years
on the Research Policies Committee, which he chaired for one year. He has also
served in the Senate Assembly for two three-year terms. In addition, he served
with distinction on many college and department committees.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Donald J. Portman
professor emeritus of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences.
John H. Romani, professor of public health administration in the School
of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on September 30, 1993.


74




September Meeting, 1993


Bor in Italy, Professor Romani received his B.A and M.A degrees from the
University of New Hampshire in 1949 and his Ph.D. degree from the University
of Michigan in 1955. He worked at the Brookings Institution and the Cleveland
Metropolitan Services Commission and taught at Western Michigan University
and the University of Pittsburgh before coming to the University of Michigan as
associate professor of public health in 1961. He was promoted to professor in
1965 and also served as assistant dean (1962-66) and associate dean (1966-69) of
the School of Public Health. Professor Romani left the University of Michigan in
1969 to serve as vice chancellor of the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He
returned in 1971 as professor of public health administration and associate vice
president for academic affairs. He held the latter position until 1975, at which
time he became the first person to chair the Department of Health Planning and
Administration (later renamed the Department of Health Policy and Administration). He served in that role for five years, and then again as interim chair in
1991.
Throughout most of his tenure, Professor Romani was one of the principal
academic resources in the area of public health administration in the School of
Public Health. He was also active in faculty governance and University affairs,
serving on the Senate Assembly, SACUA, and the School of Public Health Executive Committee. Professor Romani was also revered as a teacher and counselor
by several generations of students, and he still maintains contact with many of
them.
Professor Romani is renowned statewide and nationally for his many contributions to public health. He chaired a committee charged with reorganization of
the Michigan Department of Public Health and a working group of the Public
Health Statute Revision Project. He consults frequently with local, state, national, and international health organizations. He has served as president of the
American Public Health Association (APHA) and chaired the committee that led
to the formation of the public health school accrediting body, the Council for
Education in Public Health.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming John
H. Romani professor emeritus of public health administration.
Robert L. Shaffer, Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor of Fungal Taxonomy in the Department of Biology and curator of fungi in
the Herbarium, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1993.
Professor Shaffer received his B.S. (1951) and M.S. (1952) degrees from
Kansas State College and his Ph.D. degree (1955) from Cornell University. He
taught at the University of Chicago from 1955-60 and then joined the faculty of
the University of Michigan in 1960 as assistant professor of botany. He was promoted to associate professor in 1963 and professor in 1970.
Professor Shaffer also served as curator of fungi and director (1975-86) of
the Herbarium. During his tenure as director, the Herbarium received a series of
curatorial grants from the National Science Foundation worth over $1 million.
These grants enabled the Herbarium to purchase much-needed equipment and
achieve new levels of curatorial excellence.
In the area of research, Professor Shaffer has centered on Russula, a large
and difficult genus of fleshy fungi, and through a series of publications he has


75




September Meeting, 1993


established himself as a leading expert in the systematics of Russula. As an instructor, he has taught introductory courses in botany and biology, as well as
"Introduction to Mycology," a course essential for students in such diverse areas
as the Medical School and the School of Natural Resources and Environment.
His formal courses have always been marked by meticulous preparation and a
sincere commitment to giving his best to his students. Professor Shaffer is also
well-known among area mushroom fanciers for his popular adult education
course on Michigan mushrooms.
Professor Shaffer has also been active in the Mycological Society of America
(including a term as president) and the North American Mycological Association.
He has also served as either member or chair of most of the important committees in his department.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Robert L. Shaffer the Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince
Wehmeyer Professor Emeritus of Fungal Taxonomy and curator emeritus of
fungi.
Mary Ann P. Swain, professor of nursing in the School of Nursing and
associate vice president for academic affairs, retired from the University of
Michigan on August 13, 1993, to assume the position of provost at the State University of New York at Binghamton. This concludes a career at Michigan that
spanned nearly 25 years.
Professor Swain received her B.A degree in psychology from DePauw University in 1963 and her M.A and Ph.D. degrees in psychology from the University of Michigan in 1964 and 1969, respectively. She joined the faculty of the
School of Nursing in 1970 as an associate professor of psychology in nursing and
was promoted to professor of psychology in nursing in 1975. At the School of
Nursing, she served as director of the doctoral program and as chair for the Department of Nursing Research.
In 1983, Professor Swain was appointed associate vice president for academic affairs. Other administrative positions she held include interim co-director
of personnel (1986-88), interim director of the Affirmative Action Office
(1988-89), and interim vice president for student services (1990-92). Professor
Swain also served on a variety of committees, including the Committee on the
Status of Women in Higher Education, which she chaired from 1978-79, and the
Budget Priorities Committee, which she chaired from 1981-83.
In recognition of her dedicated service and her many contributions to the
School of Nursing, the Office of Academic Affairs, and the entire University community, the Regents now name Mary Ann P. Swain professor emerita of nursing.
Richard G. Teske, professor of astronomy, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1993, after a productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Born and raised in Ohio, Professor Teske received his B.S. degree in 1952
from Bowling Green State University, his M.S. degree in 1956 from The Ohio
State University, and his Ph.D. degree in 1961 from Harvard University. While a
student at Harvard, he was employed as an astronomer at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, where he was in charge of tracking the first American
artificial satellite in 1958.


76




September Meeting, 1993


Astrophysical Observatory, where he was in charge of tracking the first American
artificial satellite in 1958.
Professor Teske came to the University of Michigan in 1960 as an instructor
in astronomy. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1967, and professor in 1977. In 1962, at the University's McMath-Hulbert
solar observatory, Professor Teske was principal investigator for a solar x-ray detector flown on the Third Orbiting Solar Observatory (OSO III), one of the earliest space experiments to be launched by an American university. The OSO III
x-ray experiment provided the first comprehensive details and statistical data
about soft x-ray emission from solar flares, and the results were incorporated
into many publications and two doctoral theses, thus exposing many graduate
students to space research at an early point in its history.
After making strong contributions to solar and coronal physics, Professor
Teske switched to the study of supernova remnants in 1984, where he drew upon
his knowledge of coronal x-rays to make original contributions to research on the
physics of these objects. From 1987-92, he was interim director and then director
of the Michigan-Dartmouth-M.I.T. Observatory, a facility located on Kitt Peak in
Arizona and operated jointly by the three institutions.
Professor Teske has served as a consultant to NASA's Solar Physical Subcommittee of the Astronomy Missions Board and has served on various NASA
satellite payload selection committees and peer review panels. He has taught
classes, with distinction, at all levels within the Department of Astronomy, from
basic introductory courses to graduate courses on the sun and solar system.
The Regents now salute this distinguished astronomer and educator for his
dedicated service by naming Richard G. Teske professor emeritus of astronomy.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the consent agenda as listed above.
The University's Investments as of June 30, 1993
Vice President Womack submitted a separately-bound report of the University's investments at June 30, 1993.
Norman Herberts Election to The Conmmon Fund Board of Governors
Vice President Womack reported that he expected that Norman G. Herbert,
treasurer and investment officer, would be elected to the board of trustees of The
Common Fund at its annual meeting on September 28, 1993. Vice President
Womack also reported that he would be resigning from his own position on the
Endowment Advisors Board of Trustees.


77




September Meeting, 1993


Contract of Participation between the Regents of the University of
Michigan and The Common Fund
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved continuation of a contract of participation with The Common Fund. Because Norman Herbert, a University employee, is being elected to
the board of trustees of The Common Fund, this arrangement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the participation contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and The Common Fund, a nonprofit corporation.
2.  The terms of the participation contract include the University's ability, from
time to time, to invest various minimum amounts in funds established by The
Common Fund. The funds in which the investments are made are managed by
managers selected by The Common Fund, and The Common Fund receives fees
based on the type of asset and the size of the University's participation to cover
the expenses of The Common Fund. Other than the transfer of funds, no University services, facilities, or employees are utilized in the performance of this
participation contract.
3.  As a trustee of The Common Fund, Mr. Herbert will receive a fee of approximately $14,000 annually plus reimbursement of his expenses.
Sale of $20,060,000 Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 1993A
The Regents were informed of the sale of $20,060,000 Housing Revenue
Bonds, Series 1993A, which provide a savings of $1,712,335.84 during the next 17
years.
Sale of $3,170,000 Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 1993
The Regents were informed of the sale of $3,170,000 Intercollegiate Athletic
Revenue Bonds, Series 1993, which provide a savings of $148,015.83 during the
next 5 years.
Residential Property, Birmingham, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of a gift of residential property in Birmingham, Michigan, and offering the property for sale at a price established by the
University's appraisal, according to the terms outlined in the Regents
Communication.
Issuance of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds, and/or Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following resolution that authorizes the
vice president and chief financial officer to issue Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds, or Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds, or a
combination of them, and:


78




September Meeting, 1993


1. together with the underwriters, develop the terms and legal
documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate and execute
preliminary and final official statements describing the bonds, the
University and its affairs; and
2.  to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and
Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3. to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and
interest rate, negotiate, execute and deliver the Bond Purchase
Agreement with the underwriters, Morgan Stanley & Co., a trust
indenture with a trustee to be selected, an escrow agreement with
an escrow agent to be selected, and related documentation setting
forth the terms of the bonds and the sale and delivery thereof, and
to execute and deliver the bonds, all within the limitations of the
resolution (see Appendix A, page 87).
Venture Capital
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5 million of the University Endowment
Fund to Menlo Ventures VI, L.P., pending the outcome of the general counsel's
review of the partnership documents for legal acceptability.
Easement at 1327 Geddes
It was decided to table the request to vacate the easement at 1327 Geddes.
Industrial Technology Institute Easement
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
authorized execution of a new easement and acceptance of a vacated easement
for the Industrial Technology Institute, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent McGowan abstained from voting due to a conflict of interest.
North Campus Land
Vice President Womack explained that the U.S. Veterans Administration
Hospital (U.S.V.A) was requesting permission to demolish a house at 330 Oakway and carry out grading work on University property, as described in the Regents Communication, in preparation for the expansion of the U.S.V.A and
relocation of Oakway Boulevard. Regent Varner moved authorization for permitting the U.S.V.A to demolish the house at 330 Oakway and carry out the grading
work as described. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Mr. Fred Mayer, university
planner, displayed a map of the area and described the project in detail. Regent
Baker asked that the Regents be presented with a comprehensive review of the
plan for extending the roadway to the east, towards Huron Parkway.


79




September Meeting, 1993


Angell/Haven Connector
Regent Varner moved approval of the Angell/Haven connector project and
site and authorization for the appointment of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. as the
architect for the connector building between Angell Hall and Haven Hall. Following some discussion about the architectural footprint of the proposed building,
the motion was unanimously approved.
East Engineering Building Renovation
The Regents were informed that the contract for construction of the East
Engineering Building renovation had been awarded to the low bidder, Ellis-Don
Michigan, Inc., of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Engineering Center Project
Vice President Womack called on Douglas Hanna, assistant director of capital programs in the Plant Extension Office, who presented schematic drawings of
the site plan and building design for the Engineering Center. Following some discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of the design of the Engineering Center Project. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved, with
Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor,
and Regent Baker abstaining. Regent Baker requested that the architect be informed that to him, the design appeared to be unbalanced.
Cancer and Geriatric Centers Project
The Regents were informed that the contract for construction of the Cancer
and Geriatrics Center Project had been awarded to the low bidder, Walbridge,
Aldinger Company, of Detroit, Michigan, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) C.C. Little Building
renovation for the College of Pharmacy; 2) Renovation of clinic 2310 and support
laboratory 2326 in the School of Dentistry for research laboratories; 3) Phase II
of the Intercollegiate Athletics UM Golf Course Clubhouse Restoration Project,
including completion of the overall renovation of the golf course complex.
UM Hospitals Replacement of Survival Flight Helicopters
Regent Waters moved, Regent McGowan seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need application and contracting
with Helicopter Aviation Services Corporation for the lease of two Bell 230 helicopters, at a cost of $5.7 million, to replace the two Survival Flight helicopters
currently in service.


80




September Meeting, 1993


Memorandum of Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory (GLERL)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved a memorandum of agreement between the University of
Michigan and the Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory (GLERL) for
receipt of data from the CoastWatch Program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Because the director of GLERL, Alfred Beeton, is also
a University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Dr. Beeton has provided an agreement to the Regents of the University of
Michigan making available products from the CoastWatch Program.
2.   The agreement will provide data produced for the research community by the
CoastWatch Regional Site. The agreement is open-ended and there will be no
transfer of funds.
3.   Dr. Beeton is the director of Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory.
His University appointment is adjunct, without salary.
Proposed Subcontract between the Regents of the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc., as described in the Regents Communication. Because the owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc., Dr. Robert H. Bartlett, is also a University employee, this subcontract falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. (the
"Company") and the Regents of the University of Michigan.
2.   The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract. There are
no restrictions on publication or openness of the research. The project involves
the testing of a pump system design and the development of a safe and least
hemolytic blood driver for use in extracorporeal circulation and other therapeutic applications. Approval has been obtained for use of animal subjects in the research.
The subcontract will cover animal and animal care costs, laboratory supplies,
and equipment use charges totaling $14,950 over a six month period. Dr.
Bartlett will supervise the project and act as project director. Dr. Bartlett will
not be reimbursed for his time on the project as a University employee.
Collection of a portion of the indirect cost of this project will be deferred until
such time as the Company owes the University a royalty payment due to revenue received from sale of the pump (indirect cost of $6,760 assessed at 52 percent, $1,950 collected at 15 percent, $810 deferred).
3.   Dr. Bartlett participates as a member of the board of directors of the Company
without compensation and owns 33 percent of the Company.


81




September Meeting, 1993


College of Pharmacy, UM-Ann Arbor, Student Fee Rates for 1993-94
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved fees of $4,449 per term for residents and $8,347 per term
for nonresidents. This action corrects the incorrect fee schedule for the College of
Pharmacy that had been approved by the Regents in July 1993.
Establishment of the International Institute
Provost Whitaker gave a historical review of the University's initiatives in
the international arena, and noted that the purpose of the International Institute
is to enhance the University's ability to deal with international issues. There will
be administrative cost savings in the administration of the international centers,
and additional costs in the additional funds being allocated to support international education. The institute will be housed in LS&A, but will support campuswide international education and research activities. Provost Whitaker observed
that this will be an important step toward the international, global theme that
has been stressed by President Duderstadt.
Regent Power moved approval of the establishment of the International Institute. Regent Varner seconded the motion. Following some discussion, the motion was approved unanimously.
New Degree Program for UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Chancellor Jones described this proposal for creating a new degree program,
Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree in Studio Art, in the College of Arts and Sciences at
UM-Flint. Following some discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval to establish the Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree in Studio Art in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the UM-Flint. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Flint Faculty Code
This Regents Communication was withdrawn from the agenda until the following month.
Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Waters, and on the recommendation of the UM Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously
approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Ann Arbor Technology Park/Comshare Property
Vice President Womack reported that a committee representing the medical
center, central administration, and the University's planning consultants, Johnson Johnson & Roy/inc., had been established to identify an appropriate site in
northeast Ann Arbor that would enable the Medical Center to expand its services. He called on Dr. Zuidema, who observed that the trend in patient care, both
nationally and locally, was toward the ambulatory environment, rather than the
inpatient environment. The proposed site would be ideal for expanding ambulatory care services, with easy access for patients, students, and faculty. It would


82




September Meeting, 1993


also provide improved educational opportunities for students and faculty, and
would permit improved efficiency and economy of scale.
Vice President Womack explained that the terms of the proposal provide for
purchasing one 37.5-acre parcel of the Ann Arbor Technology Park and a 97.18
acre parcel from Comshare now, with a one-year option to acquire a second,
51.5-acre parcel, and a one-year right of first refusal to acquire the remaining
204.1 acres of the Ann Arbor Technology Park, according to the terms described
in the Regents Communication. Regent Baker stated that because he had served
as a receiver for the property one and one-half years ago, he would therefore neither comment on nor vote on this proposal.
Regent Brown moved that the University purchase parcel R of the Ann Arbor Technology Park (AATP) and the Comshare property as described in the Regents Communication, and further, that the University enter into an option
agreement for parcel S and a right of first refusal for the remaining AATP parcels. If it is determined that the additional acreage is needed, the University will
proceed with the acquisition of the properties at the terms outlined in the Regents Communication. Regent Waters seconded the motion. Following some discussion about why this particular site location, as opposed to property already
owned by the University, was deemed most appropriate for the Medical Center's
needs, the vote was taken and the motion was approved, with Regents Brown,
Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Baker
abstaining.
Presidential Salary
Regent Brown noted that the Board usually sets the salary of the president
at its September meeting. He observed that because of the University of Michigan's ranking as among the best in the nation, its overall policy is to compensate
its president at a level commensurate with the top public universities in the
country. He also noted that recent financial constraints have led to the fact that
the president's compensation has fallen behind that of other peer institutions.
The Regents intend to provide President Duderstadt with a merit salary increase as well as a program of equity adjustment that would bring his compensation in line with the University's compensation policy. The equity adjustment
program would be phased in over a three-year period, and would be fimded from
the Auxiliary Activities Fund, rather than from the General Fund. The Regents
would continue to review annually both the president's performance in office and
the extent to which the equity adjustment program has caught up with compensation with peer institutions.
Regent Brown moved that the president receive a 5 percent merit salary increase of $9,019 on his current base salary of $180,385, and an equity adjustment
of $16,666, bringing his total compensation to $206,070 for the 1994 fiscal year.
In addition, he proposed that the president receive an appropriate term life
insurance policy, which would be in effect so long as he serves as president.


83




September Meeting, 1993


Presidential Retirement Security Program
In accordance with retirement security provisions that have been made
available for past presidents after they end their service as president, Regent
Brown moved adoption of the following program for President Duderstadt:
Terms: This program takes effect upon retirement as president
or upon taking a leave of absence from the University, pursuant to
the regular rules in effect for faculty for that purpose, but not upon
resignation to take a position at another institution or if terminated
for malfeasance. The program ends at the age of 70, at which point
the ordinary faculty retirement program becomes effective.
Title: University professor of science and engineering (with
tenure) and president emeritus.
Duties: Teach and conduct research in any school or college
(following discussions with the provost and appropriate deans).
Reporting Line: To the provost.
Salary: A twelve-month appointment at a salary equal to the
average of the three top faculty salaries in the College of
Engineering at the time the program begins, and adjusted thereafter
on a yearly basis.
Support:  Similar to that of an endowed chair; e.g., office,
secretary, personal computer, travel funds, and supplies.
Transition:  A one-year sabbatical leave at the presidential
compensation rate at the end of his career as president, and prior to
resuming his role as a faculty member.
Regent Waters seconded the motion. Regent Baker stated that he would
vote against the motion based on the structure of the package, and that this vote
should not be interpreted as a lack of support for the president's tenure in office.
Regent Brown pointed out that the Regents had provided President Shapiro with
a similar package.
Regent Power pointed out that the equity adjustment portion of the package
would be funded through the Auxiliary Activities Fund, so that money would not
be taken away from the General Fund to bring the president's salary in line with
that of peer institutions. Regents Varner and McFee emphasized that the
Regents are committed to bringing about equity in the president's salary in the
face of widespread funding constraints in higher education, which is why the equity portion must be phased in.
The vote was then taken, and the motion carried, with Regents Brown,
Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Baker
opposed.


84




September Meeting, 1993


There being no further discussion, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on October 21 and 22, 1993. Regents' expenses for the
months of July and August, 1993, totalled $366.18 and 371.27, respectively.
Richard L.   nedSecrry


85




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1993


APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF HOSPITAL REVENUE
BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE BONDS, AND
PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and desirable to acquire, construct,
furnish and equip the Cancer and Geriatrics Centers Project and to undertake site preparation
and adjacent facility renovations related to the future North Entrance Parking Structure (collectively the "Projects"), all for use by the University of Michigan Hospitals (the "Hospital") and the
Medical School of the University (the "School"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a master indenture, as supplemented (the "Master Indenture") dated as of May 1, 1986 with Comerica Bank as Master Trustee (the "Master Trustee"), pursuant to which revenue obligations for the benefit of the Hospital have been and will be
issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued under the Master Indenture its $65,115,000
Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990, dated as of December 15, 1990 (the "Prior Hospital
Bonds") and, by Resolution adopted May 7, 1993 (the "May 7 Resolution"), has determined it
may be appropriate and in the best interest of the Issuer to refund all or a portion of the Prior
Hospital Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer (hereinafter defined) (the portion of the
Prior Hospital Bonds to be refunded being herein called the "Hospital Refunded Bonds") and has
authorized the issuance of hospital revenue bonds under the Master Indenture for the purposes
of refunding the Hospital Refunded Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued its $53,542,444.75 Medical Service Plan
Revenue Bonds, Series 1991, dated as of November 15, 1991 and December 10, 1991 (the "Prior
MSP Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously established its Medical Service Plan (the "Medical
Service Plan") as the mechanism for the managing of, and billing and collecting charges for, the
clinical practice activities of the faculty of the clinical departments of the School; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it may be appropriate and in the best interest of
the Issuer to refund all or a portion of the Prior MSP Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer (hereinafter defined) (the portion of the Prior MSP Bonds to be refunded being herein called
the "MSP Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control
and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of revenue obligations (the "Bonds"), comprised of hospital revenue bonds (the "Hospital Bonds") or Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds (the "MSP Bonds") or
a combination thereof, in the aggregate original principal amount (exclusive of the principal
amount of hospital revenue bonds authorized by the May 7 Resolution) of not to exceed One
Hundred Sixty Five Million Dollars ($165,000,000) to provide funds which, together with other
available funds, may be used for one or more of the following purposes: to pay all or a portion of
the costs of the Projects; to refund the MSP Refunded Bonds; and to pay certain costs incurred in
connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding of the MSP Refunded
Bonds, including capitalized interest; and


87




September Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


WHEREAS, the Hospital Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture (the "Series
Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee (the "Series Trustee") to
be selected by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or Associate Vice President for
Finance of the University (each an "Authorized Officer") as a series of revenue obligations under
the Master Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the MSP Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture (the "MSP Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee (the "Trustee") to be selected by an Authorized Officer as a series of revenue obligations; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer shall retain Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated as the senior underwriter for the Bonds, and any other underwriters to be designated by an Authorized Officer
(collectively called the "Underwriter"), as underwriter to undertake market analysis with respect
to the sale of the Bonds and to submit an offer or offers to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a
Bond Purchase Agreement or Agreements (collectively the "Bond Purchase Agreement") to be
negotiated with the Underwriter and executed and delivered on behalf of the Issuer by an
Authorized Officer; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery under the Master Indenture of hospital revenue bonds of the Issuer (herein called the "Hospital Bonds") in one or
more series to be designated as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer (but which designation shall include the words "HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS" or if appropriate, "HOSPITAL
REVENUE AND REFUNDING BONDS") with appropriate series designations, in the aggregate
original principal amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but not to exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of $65,000,000 (but the total aggregate principal
amount of the Hospital Bonds and the MSP Bonds shall not exceed $165,000,000), to be dated as
of the date or dates established by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of providing funds
which, together with other available funds, may be used to pay all or a portion of the costs of the
Projects and to pay costs incidental to the issuance of the Hospital Bonds, including capitalized
interest for such period, if any, as an Authorized Officer may deem appropriate. The Hospital
Bonds shall be serial bonds, or term bonds, which may be subject to redemption requirements, or
both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the first maturity shall be not earlier
than December 1, 1993 and the last maturity shall be no later than December 1, 2027. The Hospital Bonds may bear no interest or may bear interest at stated fixed rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest fixed rate of
interest for any maturity shall not exceed 7% per annum, and the Bonds may be issued in whole
or in part as capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or any part thereof bear no interest
but appreciate in principal amount over time at compounded rate (not in excess of 7% per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer. Alternatively, all or part of the Hospital Bonds
may bear interest at a variable rate of interest for all or a portion of their term, and the variable
rate of interest shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted by law. In addition, all or part of
the Bonds may be issued in related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one
of which bears interest at a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the
fixed rate paid by the Issuer, but the combined rate on such Hospital Bonds, taking the two related series together, which shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not exceed 7%
per annum The Hospital Bonds may be subject to redemption or call for purchase prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as shall be established by an Authorized Officer.
The maximum annual principal and interest requirements on the Hospital Bonds, taking into account any swap or other arrangements described below, and assuming the variable rate on any
Hospital Bonds not also subject to a swap or other arrangement, and not issued as part of related
series as described above, is equal to 7% per annum, shall not exceed $10,000,000. Interest on the
Hospital Bonds shall be payable at the times as shall be specified by an Authorized Officer. The
Hospital Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations, shall be payable as to
principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Series Indenture. The Hospital Bonds
shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue
discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest, if any,
from the dated date of the Hospital Bonds to the date of delivery thereof. In connection with the
issuance of the Hospital Bonds, either of the Authorized Officers may, on behalf of and as the act


88




September Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate swap, cap or similar agreement or agreements (collectively, the "Hospital Swap Agreement") with a counter-party or counter-parties to be selected by
the Authorized Officer. Such Hospital Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the
Issuer and the counter-party related to interest on the Hospital Bonds or indexed or market established rates. The effective interest rates on the Hospital Bonds, taking into account the effect
of the Hospital Swap Agreement, shall be within the limitations set forth herein.
The Hospital Bonds may be issued as part of a single issue or series with the hospital revenue bonds authorized by the May 7 Resolution, in which event the designation of those bonds
may be as provided herein for the Hospital Bonds. The limitations as to the Hospital Bonds, and
the bonds authorized by the May 7 Resolution, contained herein and the May 7 Resolution, respectively, shall be applied separately to the Hospital Bonds and the bonds authorized by the
May 7 Resolution, even if all such bonds are issued as part of a single series.
2. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of medical service
plan revenue bonds of the Issuer (herein called the 'MSP Bonds") in one or more series to be
designated as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer (but which designation shall include
the words "MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE BONDS", or, if appropriate, "MEDICAL
SERVICE PLAN REVENUE AND REFUNDING BONDS"), with appropriate series designations, in the aggregate original principal amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but
not to exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of $125,000,000 (but the total
aggregate principal amount of the MSP Bonds and the Hospital Bonds shall not exceed
$165,000,000) to be dated as of the date or dates established by an Authorized Officer, for the
purpose of providing funds which, together with other available funds, may be used for one or
more of the following purposes: to pay all or part of the costs of the Projects; to refund the MSP
Refunded Bonds; and to pay costs incidental to the refunding and to the issuance of the MSP
Bonds, including capitalized interest for such period if any, as an Authorized Officer may deem
appropriate. The MSP Bonds shall be serial bonds, or term bonds, which may be subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the first
maturity shall be not earlier than December 1, 1993 and the last maturity shall be no later than
December 1, 2027. The MSP Bonds may bear no interest or may bear interest at stated fixed
rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but
the highest fixed rate of interest for any maturity shall not exceed 7% per annum, and the MSP
Bonds may be issued in whole or in part as capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or
any part thereof bear no interest but appreciate in principal amount over time at compounded
rate (not in excess of 7% per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer. Alternatively,
all or part of the MSP Bonds may bear interest at a variable rate of interest for all or a portion of
their term, and the variable rate of interest shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted by law.
In addition, all or part of the MSP Bonds may be issued in related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one of which bears interest at a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the fixed rate paid by the Issuer, but the combined rate on such
MSP Bonds, taking the two related series together, which shall be determined by an Authorized
Officer, shall not exceed 7% per annum. The MSP Bonds may be subject to redemption or call for
purchase prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as shall be established by
an Authorized Officer. The maximum annual principal and interest requirements on the MSP
Bonds, taking into account any swap or other arrangements described below, and assuming the
variable rate on any MSP Bonds not also subject to a swap or other arrangement, and not issued
as part of related series as described above, is equal to 7% per annum, shall not exceed
$9,000,000. Interest on the MSP Bonds shall be payable at the times as shall be specified by an
Authorized Officer. The MSP Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations,
shall be payable as to principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the MSP Indenture.
The MSP Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for
a price to be established by an Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of
original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the MSP Bonds to the date of delivery thereof. In connection
with the issuance of the MSP Bonds, either of the Authorized Officers may, on behalf of and as
the act of the Issuer enter into an interest rate swap, cap or similar agreement or agreements
(collectively, the '"M~P Swap Agreement") with a counter-party or counter-parties to be selected
by the Authorized Officer. Such MSP Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the
Issuer and the counter-party related to interest on the MSP Bonds or indexed or market established rates. The effective interest rates on the MSP Bonds, taking into account the effect of the
MSP Swap Agreement, shall be within the limitations set forth herein.


89




September Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


3. The Hospital Bonds, and the obligations of the Issuer under the Hospital Swap Agreement, shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from Hospital Gross
Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture) and equally and ratably secured with all other
Revenue Obligations (as defined in the Master Indenture) by an irrevocable pledge of the Pledged
Hospital Gross Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture) and the funds from time to time
on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the Master Indenture and shall be additionally secured by the funds from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the Series Indenture.
Except as provided in the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture, no recourse shall be
had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Hospital Bonds or
any obligation of the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture or the Hospital
Swap Agreement, or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Hospital Bonds or
any obligation of the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the Hospital
Swap Agreement become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the
State of Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds established by the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture.
Notwithstanding anything herein or in the May 7 Resolution, any obligations of the Issuer
under the Hospital Swap Agreement or the swap agreement authorized by the May 7 Resolution
may be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the Hospital Bonds and other Revenue
Obligations.
4. The MSP Bonds, and any obligations of the Issuer under the MSP Swap Agreement,
shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from and equally and ratably
secured by an irrevocable pledge of the Medical Service Plan Revenues (as defined in the MSP Indenture) on a parity basis with the Prior MSP Bonds and shall be additionally secured by the
funds from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the MSP
Indenture.
Except as provided in the MSP Indenture, no recourse shall be had for the payment of the
principal amount of or interest or premium on the MSP Bonds or any obligation of the Issuer
under the MSP Indenture or the MSP Swap Agreement, or any claim based thereon against the
State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any officer of agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the MSP Bonds or any obligation of the Issuer under the MSP Indenture, or
the MSP Swap Agreement become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or
mixed of the State of Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than the Medical Service
Plan Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds established
by the MSP Indenture.
Notwithstanding anything herein, any obligation of the Issuer under the MSP Swap Agreement may be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the MSP Bonds and the Prior MSP
Bonds.
5. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Hospital Gross Revenues or Medical Service Plan Revenues, respectively, or secured on a parity
basis with the Hospital Bonds or the MSP Bonds from the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues or
the Medical Service Plan Revenues, respectively, upon compliance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the Master Indenture or the MSP Indenture.
6. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf
of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to retain a financial advisor, if deemed necessary
by the Authorized Officer, to designate any underwriters in addition to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, to negotiate, execute and deliver the Series Indenture, the MSP Indenture, the Bond
Purchase Agreement or Agreements, the Hospital Swap Agreement and the MSP Swap Agreement, in each case subject to the terms hereof. Any of said documents may, in the discretion of an
Authorized Officer, also be executed by the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University.
7. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Hospital Bonds and
the MSP Bonds by placing his manual or facsimile signature thereon, and to deliver the separate


90




September Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


issues of the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange for the purchase price thereof, as shall be
provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement or Agreements.
8. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared the
Preliminary Official Statement or Statements with respect to the Bonds and to prepare or arrange to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Official Statement or
Statements with respect to the Bonds and such supplements or amendments to the Official Statement or Statements as may be required pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement or Agreements. The Underwriter is hereby authorized to circulate and use the Preliminary Official
Statement or Statements and the Official Statement or Statements, as the same may be so supplemented or amended, in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, sale and remarketing
of the Bonds.
9. Each of the Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the Treasurer and Investment Officer,
the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are hereby authorized
to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for an on
behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this resolution, the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, the MSP Indenture the Hospital Swap Agreement, the MSP Swap Agreement or
the Bond Purchase Agreement or Agreements, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection
with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds or any issue or series thereof, and the ongoing
operation of the financing programs represented by the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby.
10. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate,
execute and deliver an escrow agreement relating to the MSP Refunded Bonds and the MSP
Bond proceeds therefor, in such form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of legal counsel, subject to the terms hereof, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced
by the execution of such escrow agreement.
11. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


91




OCTOBER MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 21, 1993
The Regents assembled at 10:00 am. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan,
Power, and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy,
and Vice President Harrison were also present. Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, and Neal, and Chancellors Jones
and Renick were absent. Regent Varner arrived shortly after the start of the
meeting.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Deitch, who made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Sections 8(a), 8(e), and 8(h) of the Open Meetings
Act, as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents
meet in closed session on October 21, 1993, for the following
purposes: 1) to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of a person
who has requested confidentiality [Sec. 8(a)]; 2) to consult with our
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation [Sec. 8(e)]; and 3) to consider material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously,
after which the Regents immediately met in closed session.
A Thoughtful Discussion of Political Correctness and Academic Values
The Regents reconvened at 1:00 p.m. in the East Conference Room of the
Horace H. Rackham Building and participated in a panel discussion about political correctness and academic values. Panelists included Professors Elizabeth Anderson, Lee Bollinger, James Jackson, Rebecca Scott, and James Turner. Audio
and video tapes of the discussion are on file in the Office of the Secretary of the
University.
Friday, October 22, 1993
The Regents met at 9:20 am. in the Harding Mott University Center on the
campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Present were President Duderstadt


93




October Meeting, 1993


and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and
Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy was also present, as were Provost
Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, and Chancellors Jones and Renick
Ernst & Young Management Report and Responses
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, and called on Executive
Vice President Womack to introduce the external auditor's report. Executive Vice
President Womack introduced Messrs. Robert Emde and Harold Miller, of Ernst
& Young, and George Johnson, a certified public accountant who assisted in the
audit.
Mr. Emde noted that Ernst & Young's opinion on the financial statements,
submitted in September, had been a "clean, unqualified opinion," which present
fairly the financial position of the University, as well as each of its constituent organizations (the Hospitals, Dental Faculty Associates, M-Care, Veritas) and
closely aligned organizations (the Alumni Association, the University Musical Society, and the William Davidson Institute).
Regarding the report on procedures and controls, Mr. Emde stated that
these were found to be working very efficiently, with no material weaknesses. He
noted that the University concurs with each of the recommendations in the management letter and has taken steps to implement them.
Mr. Emde observed that his firm continues to receive excellent cooperation
in performing its audit. He then responded to questions from the Regents and
noted that Ernst & Young would not hesitate to bring to the attention of the Regents any matters that would be of concern.
1994-95 State Budget Request
Ann Arbor Campus. President Duderstadt called on Provost Whitaker to
present the budget request for the Ann Arbor campus. Provost Whitaker observed that there had been no increase in the state appropriation for the past two
years, which had led to an increasing reliance on tuition to make up the General
Fund budget. The state appropriation currently comprises 37 percent of this
budget, while tuition makes up 52 percent. Provost Whitaker pointed out that as
tuition increases, the cost of maintaining access also rises; therefore, increased
state support is essential to the University's ability to maintain access.
Given the state's financial situation, only a modest increase in state appropriation is proposed, consisting of $10.1 million as an inflation component (3.7
percent), $1.7 million for operating costs of facilities openings for FY95; and $3.5
million for maintenance improvement, for a total requested increase of $15.3
million.
UM-Flint Campus, Chancellor Jones observed that the UM-Flint budget
was derived from two revenue streams: state appropriation and tuition and fees.
The continuing decline in state support has led to increased reliance on tuition
and fees, and the difficulty this creates for students is of great concern.


94




October Meeting, 1993


Enrollment growth has stabilized because of lack of funds for hiring more filltime faculty to teach more class sections.
The incremental budget request of 6.7 percent ($2,250,000) over the 1993-94
appropriation includes, in order of priority, $500,000 for facilities openings; a 3.7
percent inflationary increase for both salaries and operating expenses
($1,250,000); and $500,000 for various program initiatives.
UM-Dearbon. Following some discussion, President Duderstadt called on
Chancellor Renick to present the 1994-95 UM-Dearbor budget request. Chancellor Renick stated that the funding situation at UM-Dearborn is similar to that
of the other two campuses. The 1994-95 incremental budget request of
$1,684,000 reflects two priorities: an inflation component of 3.7 percent for
maintenance of quality educational programming, and $1,000,000 for the Center
for Environmental Education.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1994-95 state budget requests for all three campuses.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Consideration of the minutes of the September 1993 meeting was
deferred until the following month.
Reports. The following reports were submitted to the Regents: reports of
investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, noncompetitive purchases over $2,000 from single sources, projects established, and summaries of a selection of current research.
Executive Vice President Womack observed that treasury bond interest
rates are currently at record-low levels and described the implications of that on
the economy and the University's investment portfolio. He also reported that the
University's equity managers have exceeded performance guidelines for one-year
and three-year periods. He commented on the University's strategy for diversification of investments and the effects of the strategy on performance and
volatility.
Executive Vice President Womack also announced that in the near future he
would be presenting the Regents with a proposal designed to enhance investment
returns of the investment pool through longer term investments of the core portion of the pool.
Investments in South Africa. Following some discussion of the investment report, Regent Power observed that negotiations toward racial power sharing now taking place in South Africa had led to a request by Mr. Nelson Mandela
for an end to the economic boycott of South Africa, and that President Clinton
had recently issued an executive order changing American policy. Regent Power
stated that it may be time for the University of Michigan, prudently and deliberately, to consider its options with regard to its current investment policy of avoiding investing in corporations which do business in South Africa. He moved that
the administration report back to the Board of Regents its recommendations as


95




October Meeting, 1993


to this policy and other policies directed toward investments in corporations conducting business activities in South Africa. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Regent Baker observed that there was a state law prohibiting the University from   changing its current investment policy in South Africa. Regent Power
reported that legislation recently had been proposed in the state legislature to
change the state's position on investing in South Africa and also pointed out that
this was an autonomy issue that should be considered independent of the state's
position on the issue.
Regent Baker commented that the University had prevailed in the Court of
Appeals on the autonomy issue, and that although he thought the motion tended
toward grandstanding, he was in favor of it.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda, continued
Investment Report. Regent Baker asked for a report on the endowment
which would disclose gifts and transfers as well as appreciation. The Regents
complimented Executive Vice President Womack and his staff on their competent management of the University's endowment find.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich presented the report of voluntary support.
ARCO Exploration & Production Technology, Piano, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege  of  E ngineering..............................................................................................................  16,500
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...........................25,925
Allied Signal Foundation, Morristown, New York
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Business
Administration, the College of Engineering, and the Biophysics Research Division............... 26,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, the College of Pharmacy, the Institute of Gerontology, and the Biophysics
R esearch   D ivision..................173,488........................................................................................................................................................ 173,4 88
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research   in   the  M edical School...............................................................................................................................  19,517
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy.......................................................................42,250
American Paralysis Association, Short Hills, New Jersey
for research  in  the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................... 18,150
Anonymous Donor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics........................................................... 40,000
Aplastic Anemia Foundation of America, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research   in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 6,250
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted  support of the  University  of M ichigan....................................................................................... 9,006
Atlantic Richfield Company, Dallas, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.............................................. 10,000
Terry Barr Sales Agency, Inc., Southfield
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,360
Dorothy Gondos Beers, Fairfax, Virginia
357 shares of Health/Rehab Property Trust common stock for the Victor
Gondos Jr. Archives Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.............................. 5043
David A. Brandon Foundation, Northville
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,360


96




October Meeting, 1993


Gerald Bright, Franklin
for the John Steven Rosowski Memorial in the College of Engineering, for student
aid in the Schools of Law and Natural Resources and Environment, for
opera support in the School of Music, and for the University Library.................................................61,563
Michael C. Carey, Winnetka, Illinois
300 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock for the Carey Travel Awards in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................................................... 16,350
Constance E. Carmody Estate
for unrestricted support of the School of Public Health.................................................................................. 15,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School
and for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.....................................................25,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee matching gifts16,725for employee matching gifts................................................................................................................................................... 16,725
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................................................ 6,500
Lucille Beebe Coles, Niles
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................6,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
200 shares of Schlumberger, 400 shares of Cooper Industries, and 1,150 shares of
Southeastern Michigan Gas common stocks for endowment in the School of Business
Administration and for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship in the Alumni Association........61,538
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering.........................................8,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School...................................................................................................................................24,980
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for the Delta Dental Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry.............................................................8,000
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for the Detroit Free Press Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the High School Journalism Workshop for
M in orities   P rogram........................................................................................................................................................................25,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering.....................................21,000
Gerald F. Dewhirst Trust
for the Robert G. Rodkey Fellowship and Scholarship in the School of Business
A d m inistratio n.................................................................................................................................................................................. 2 5,0 0 0
Thomas I. and Barbara S. Dolan, Kalamazoo
2,000 shares of A. 0. Smith Class B common stock for the Thomas I. and Barbara
S. Dolan Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the University
of   M ich ig an.........................................................................................................................................................................................  10 8,6 2 5
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for polymer research in the College of Engineering............................................................................................ 11,000
E. E. Symposium, Takoma Park, Maryland
for the William B. Stapp Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources and
E n vironm  en t...................................................................................................................................................................................5,763
Oscar H. and Barbara Feldman Trust, Detroit
for the William    Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration..................21,000
Henry Ford Health System, Detroit
for the Program     in Hospital Administration in the School of Public Health.................................. 11,025
Bruce Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
for the Bruce, Stanley, and Stuart Frankel Endowment in the School of Business
Administration and for the Tutorial Fund in the Department of Athletics.....................................21,000
Benjamin Franklin Properties, Inc., North Miami Beach, Florida
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,360
GE Lighting Europe, Ltd, London, England
for the Global Business Partnership Faculty Development Fund in the School of
B u siness   A dm in istration...............................................................................................................................................................6,000
Carolyn A. Gatward Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,360
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for research in the Horace H. Rackham          School of Graduate Studies................................................ 110,000
Geoffrey L. Gifford, Chicago, Illinois
for  unrestricted  support of the    Law    School............................................................................................................... 10,000
George Green Estate
for  special acquisitions   in  the  M useum    of Art....................................................................................................... 190,000


97




October Meeting, 1993


Dennis and Laris Stalker Gross, Park Ridge, Illinois
for the E. A. Stalker Aerospace Research Fellowship in the College of Engineering............ 100,000
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William     and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School........................................................... 10,000
Raymond Harkrider Estate
for scholarships in the Law School................................................................................  0,000
John A. Harris, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the tennis facility in the
D epartm   ent  of A  thletics                                                                                       744.............................................................................................................................................................11,744
Barnett & Shirley Helzberg Fund of the Greater Kansas Community Foundation,
Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett C. Helzberg Doctoral Fellowship, School of Business Administration...........20,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School.......................................................................................................45,000
Honeywell, Inc., Farmington Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit................................................ 10,000
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...........................................................................25,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the IBM Fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering and the
School of Natural Resources and Environment..................................................................................................... 54,292
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Hanover, New Hampshire
for the Class of 1931 Scholarship in the College of Engineering...............................................................30,000
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Group, Plymouth
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering................................................................................... 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health........................................................................ 101,929
Catherine P. Jones Estate
for  the  C atherine   P. Jones  Fund......................................................................................................................................... 2,817
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Junior Year in Freiburg Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts....................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 0,0 0 0
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Juan Tienda Scholarship in the Law School............................................................................................ 10,000
Effie Karlinski Estate
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Education.................................................................. 74,248
W. K Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for community-based health services education in the School of Public Health.......................635,689
Carl A. and Joan C. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
for the Brad Kreager and the Michelle Kreager Donor Pooled Income Funds for
the ultimate benefit of the Division of Kinesiology..............................................................................................43,216
Louise S. Lake, Hinsdale, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 15,000
Jack Lapides Revocable Trust, Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Medicine and Nursing, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
Undergraduate Merit Scholarships, the President's Fund, the University Musical
S ociety,  an d   W U O M..........................................................................................................................................................................95 00
Lynn A. Leedy, New Canaan, Connecticut
for the R. Timothy Leedy Endowed Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm  in istration.................................................................................................................................................................................. 10,000
Leeman Labs, Inc., Lowell, Massachusetts
for laser spectrometry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................9,880
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the School of Music..................................................................................................................................................................  7,500
Life and Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for  research     in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 12,500
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................8,750
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts..........................................................................................................................................................................................2 2,5 0 0
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Dillard, Georgia
for  the  Ruth   Lobdell Endow      ed  Scholarship...................................................................................................................7,000


98




October Meeting, 1993


Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Benard Maas Scholarships/Fellowships in the School of Business
Administration, Medical School, and College of Engineering, for the Raoul
Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School..................44,360
Thomas S. Maentz, Inc., Birmingham
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,360
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................13,750
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 15,750
Eula Dewey Marcks Estate
for the Carlton-McCarron Forest Fund in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for the Michigan Historical Collections.............................................................................15,000
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for employee matching gifts..15585................................................................................................................................................. 15,585
Dorothy B. Maxwell, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Class of 1939 Scholarship in the College of Engineering, in memory of
G regory     W.  M axw ell......................................................................................................................................................................15,000
McInerney Leasing, Southfield
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.................... 8,720
Normal F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the John R. G. Gosling Lectureship in the Medical School....................................................................8,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,360
Evelyn M. Murray, Washington, D.C.
for the Evelyn M. Murray Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the   U niversity   of  M ichigan..........................................................................................................................................................8,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts....................................................................................................................................................................................................22 2 75
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 22,000
George J. Nichols, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the George J. Nichols Jr. Student Internship in the School of Business
A dm  in istration................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
Nippon Life Insurance Company, Tokyo, Japan
for the Nippon Life Professorship in the Law School......................................................................................200,000
Oakwood Hospital Corporation, Dearborn
for the Program      in Hospital Administration in the School of Public Health..................................11,025
Gardner I and Mary Anna Parsons, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
17,485 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Gardner I. and
Mary Anna Parsons Charitable Remainder Unitrust......................................................................................561,442
Ralph M. Parsons Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for civil and environmental support in the College of Engineering........................................................50,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for fellowships and research in the Medical School.............................................................................................. 12,000
Bernice M. Regunberg, Poughkeepsie, New York
for the Bernice M. Regunberg Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the J. Jonathan Regunberg Scholarship in the Law School.................................................25,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School...............................................................................................50,000
Irvin J. Sattinger, Ann Arbor
260 shares of Kimberly-Clark Corporation common stock for the College of
Engineering, School of Information and Library Studies, Medical School,
Cam   paign  for  M ichigan, and    W  U OM............................................................................................................................... 12,155
Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Waco, Texas
150 shares of Dominion Resources common stock for the Adrian W. Schmidhauser
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan...................7,294
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for research and other support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Scien  ce, an d   th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................30,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Donald R. Shepherd Chair, and the Elbel Club, and Marching Band
Funds in the School of Music and for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for
Cancer    Research    in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................................... 259,360


99




October Meeting, 1993


Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School................9,018
Harold E. Stieg, Bloomfield Hills
for the Elmer C. and Louise A. Steig Memorial Scholarship........................................................................50,000
Elizabeth Lamb Stranahan, Ann Arbor
490 shares of Merck & Company common stock for the School of Music and the
C lem ents  L ibrary................................................................................................................................................................... 12 665
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for the S. M. Wu Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................... 25,804
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for seating accommodation research in the Transportation Research Institute..........................25,000
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Detroit
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit Football Scholarship in
the   D epartm ent  of  A thletics...................................................................................................................................................12,000
University of Michigan Club of Grand Rapids
for the Grand Rapids University of Michigan Club Scholarship, the Ralph G.
Conger Scholarship, and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................19,316
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C.
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington D.C. Scholarship Fund in the
A lum ni  A ssociation................................................................................................................................................................ 12,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts....................................................20,298
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School
and for natural sciences development at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...........................5,360
Celia 0. and Everett T. Weart Estate
for the  Celia  Olney  W eart and  M arie  D. Olney  Fund......................................................................................... 72,454
J. Patrick White, Iron River
260 shares of IBM Corporation common stock for the J. Patrick White Donor
Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan................................ 11,473
James B. & Jane S. Wolf Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Community Federation,
Cleveland, Ohio
for student aid  in  the  School of Business Administration.............................................................................. 10000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Frank B. Womer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
th e   S ch ool  of   E du cation............................................................................................................................................................  10,0 00
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Aries Technology, Inc., Birmingham
solids modeling and finite element software for Sun workstations with 24-seat network license,
training, and one year of technical support for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Engineering Computing Labs
Irene Miles, Dearborn
a 26 inch tall brass parrot cage, original to the Henry Ford Estate, and an original round oak
table on wheels for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Additional gifts ranging from        $1 to $999 in value were received from          the following donors:
Keith Arbour, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania       Michael A. MaCary, Waterbury, Connecticut
John Berger, Inkster                           Jay Medical, Ltd., Boulder, Colorado
Ward Bissell, Ann Arbor                        Frank J. Massey III, Dearborn
Vivian Braden, East Leroy                      Larry S. Matthews, Ann Arbor
Celeste A. Brusati, Ann Arbor                  Patricia P. McFadden, Ann Arbor
Kirsten P. Buick, Chicago, Illinois            David R. Merryfield, Ypsilanti
Irene McDonnell Cahill, Northville             Winifred 0. Moore, Ann Arbor
Elisabeth Cushman, Dearborn                    Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
William B. Darnton, Ann Arbor                  James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
George Detrick, Ypsilanti                      Dawn Rosser, Milford
Eugene N. Feingold, Ann Arbor                  Anne Russman, New York, New York
Winnifred E. Goeboro, Dearborn                 A. Bruce Shimberg, Chicago, Illinois
Goethe Institute, Ann Arbor                    Arlene P. Shy, Ann Arbor
Robert 0. Harrington, Flint                    Kathy Smith, Redford


100




October Meeting, 1993


Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1994
Lawrence R. Kuhns, M.D., Professor of Radiology
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1993
John W. Dobbs, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education, UM-Flint, three year term
Thomas L. Schwenk, M.D., from Associate Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health
Professions Education, without tenure, Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Family Practice, to Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health
Professions Education, without tenure, Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Family Practice
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Marvin Brandwin, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, August 1, 1993
E. Lawrence McMahon, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, reappointed to active status, one-year term
Thomas M. Sawyer, Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, reappointed to active
status, one-year term
Gerda M. Seligson, Professor Emeritus of Classical Studies, reappointed to active status,
nine-month term
Alfred W. Storey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech, reappointed to active status, fall term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
David W. Cohen, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, without
tenure, also appointed Director, International Institute, five-year term, October 22, 1993
Jay L. Robinson, Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
also appointed Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, five-year term,
September 1, 1993
Mary Trepanier-Street, Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Acting Associate
Dean, School of Education, one-year term, January 1, 1994
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR
Effective November 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Wolfgang Albrecht, Max Kade Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, fall
term, September 1, 1993


101




October Meeting, 1993


Paul Danos, from Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, with tenure, and Associate Dean,
School of Business Administration, to Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, with
tenure, and Senior Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, three-year term
Melvin Hochster, from Raymond L. Wilder Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor
of Mathematics, with tenure, and Robert W. and Lynn Browne Professor in Science,
five-year term
Judith A. Nowack, Assistant Vice President for Research
Marvin G. Parnes, Assistant Vice President for Research
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Chris Veber, student representative, retroactive two year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Lynn
Chia, term expired
Molly Shaffer, student representative, retroactive one year term ending June 30, 1994, vice
Colleen Lenon, term expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Geraldine B. Ford, four-year term ending September 30, 1997, new appointment
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Elaine Clark, three-month term ending January 31, 1994, substitute for Kathleen Wider during
promotion and tenure deliberations
Roger Loeb, three-month term ending January 31, 1994, substitute for Robert Hymes during
promotion and tenure deliberations
Julia Tai, three-month term ending January 31, 1994, substitute for Linda Fisher during
promotion and tenure deliberations
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Richard Moyer, three-year term ending August 31, 1996, vice Daniel Sayles, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Huei Peng, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Marc S. Abbuhl, MA, Lecturer I in German Literature
Marion A. Aitches, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Jennifer S. Balay, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Elizabeth S. Brater, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Lorenzo Z. Buj, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Robert K. Carr, M.S., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Christopher M. Cernich, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Sungdai Cho, MA, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Yeong Choi, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Thomas W. Collier, M.S., Lecturer II in History
Susan Contratto, Ed.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Margo W. Czinski, AM., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Deborah R. Davies, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Margarita De La Vega-Hurtado, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Maria Dorantes, MA, Lecturer I in Spanish
Shoko Emori, MA, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Karl-Georg Federhofer, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature


102




October Meeting, 1993


Niedja C. Fedrigo, MA, Lecturer I in Portugese
Michael C. Gamer, Ph.D.., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Daniella Harpaz, B.G.S., Lecturer II in Yiddish
Gina Hausknecht, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Joshua H. Henkin, M.FA, Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies
Emily A Hughes, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Lamia N. Karim, BA, Lecturer I in Communication
Elizabeth L. Kieschnick, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Walter R. Langlois, BA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures
Ruth J. Lawrence, D.Phil., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Timothy J. Martin, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Phyllisis M. Ngin, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Marcia W. Plunkett, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Ian P. Rumfitt, D.Phil., Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Richard Saavedra, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Pashaura Singh, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sikh Studies
Carla M. Sinopoli, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Carolyn Stone, M.FA, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Beverly I. Strassmann, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, July 1, 1993
Ramachandran Subrayan, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Seyed H. Tehranisa, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Keith A Trujillo, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Zhenghan Wang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Eben Y. Wood, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Brook A Ziporyn, MA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures
Medical School
Tamara L. Gay, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, September 15, 1993
Rae R. Hanson, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Mary R. Jacobs, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, September 7, 1993
Irene S. Kazmers, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine
Anthony A Killeen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology
Monica Liebert, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1993
Kevin T. McDonagh, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
James A Peliska, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry
Vijendra K. Singh, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, August 15, 1993
Linda C. Stone, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Lisa V. Bardwell, Ph.D., Lecturer in Resource Policy and Behavior
School of Nursing
Kathleen E. Kyndely, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Margaret A Pigott, B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Martin C. Milani, Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, September 7, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Kent S. Murray, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geology
UMDearborn School of Education
Robert A Pena, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education and Public Administration
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Ali K. Kamrani, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering
Eric B. Ratts, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering


103




October Meeting, 1993


CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Judy V. Rosenthal, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology (previously reported as Lecturer)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Kannan Sethuraman, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Operations Management
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sherry L. Hatcher, from Lecturer to Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychology
V. Blair Hobbs, from Lecturer I in English Language and Literature to Adjunct Lecturer in
English
Susan L. Johnson, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of History and Women's Studies
School of Dentistry
Michael E. Vetowich, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Medical School
Kathleen A. Cooney, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Lorraine M. Fig, from Lecturer to Clinical Professor II of Internal Medicine, August 1, 1993
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Victor K Ng, Assistant Professor of Finance, leave without salary, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
James E. Wheeler, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
School of Dentistry
Charles J. Kowalski, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -February 28, 1994
College of Engineering
Theodore G. Birdsall, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1996
Kuei Chuang, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, extended
sick leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994, and retirement furlough, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1995
Janice M. Jenkins, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
E. Lawrence McMahon, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1993
Robert L. Smith, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Law School
Thomas A. Green, John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1994


104




October Meeting, 1993


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ratindranath Akhoury, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1994
James W. Allen, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1994
Leonard Barkan, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
History of Art, without tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1994
Marvin B. Becker, Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31,1994
David D. Bien, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Miriam E. Bodian, Assistant Professor of Judiac Studies, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Jane R. Burbank, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Director, Center for Russian
and East European Studies, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1994
Chun-Shu Chang, Professor of History, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
E. Valentine Daniel, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 22 -December 31, 1993
Robert L. Danly, Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31,1994
Kenneth J. Dewoskin, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1993, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Elizabeth R. Dunn, Lecturer II in History of Art, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Albert Feuerwerker, AM. and H. P. Bentley Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus,
Januaryl-May 31, 1994
Nancy K. Florida, Assistant Professor of Indonesian Language and Literature, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Richard I. Ford, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, Chair,
Department of Anthropology, and Professor of Botany, without tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
James J. Gindin, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Luis 0. Gomez, Charles 0. Hucker Professor of Buddhist Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
Robert L. Griess, Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Nancy Guerra, Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
John W. Hagen, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1994
Lois W. Hoffman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1994
John E. Jackson, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-June 30, 1994
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 15, 1994
Miles S. Kimball, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Pekka J. Koskela, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Trevor LeGassick, Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Shenglin Lu, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1994
Marion T. Marzolf, Professor of Communication, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Donald I. Meyer, Professor Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Piotr A. Michalowski, George G. Cameron Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Civilization and
Languages, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1993, and sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1994


105




October Meeting, 1993


Allen Moy, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1994
Gayl D. Ness, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Population Planning and International Health, without tenure, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1993
James R. O'Neil, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994
E. Ramirez-Christensen, Associate Professor of Japanese Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1993
Frank A. Raymond, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1"
December 31, 1993, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1994
William G. Rosenberg, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
J. Graham Smith, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31,1994
Nicholas H. Steneck, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
John M. Swales, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Director, English Language Institute,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1994
Thomas N. Tentler, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Raymond H. Van Dam, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Gabriel Weinreich, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Hermann F. Weiss, Professor of German, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Susan P. Wright, Lecturer III in History of Science, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
York-Peng E. Yao, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Jens C. Zorn, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Medical School
Jack L. Kostyo, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1994
Rowena G. Matthews, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-August 31, 1994
Robert Zand, Professor of Biological Chemistry and Macromolecular Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Terry L. Root, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and Associate Professor of Biology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1994
School of Public Health
Jean T. Shope, Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, duty off campus, August 1 -December 31, 1993
Ruth S. Simmons, Associate Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Barbara J. Mace, Assistant Professor of Business Economics, September 18, 1993
School of Dentistry
Michelle L. Elford, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1993
Adam T. Parsons, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1993
Martin J. Tuck, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1993
Donald A. Wennersten, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1993


106




October Meeting, 1993


College of Engineering
E. Lawrence McMahon, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, May 31, 1993
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Byron A. Doneen, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, September 15, 1993
Ilene T. Olken, Professor of Italian, with tenure, December 31, 1993
Seyed H. Tehranisa, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, September 17, 1993
Bernard Van't Hul, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
October 31, 1993
Medical School
Leslie G. Biesecker, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, September 1, 1993
Matthew J. Kluger, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, September 30, 1993
Janice LaRouere, Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, September 3, 1993
Paul S. Meltzer, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Assistant
Professor of Radiation Oncology, September 1, 1993
James C. Sackellares, Professor of Neurology, with tenure, September 30, 1993
Dennis R. Schaberg, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate
Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, September 1, 1993
UM Dearborn School of Engineering
Abdallah K Cherri, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
August 31, 1993
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted the following retirement memoirs:
Jesse E. Gordon, professor of social work in the School of Social Work and
professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after 34 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Gordon obtained his B.S. degree from New York University in
1950, his M.A degree from New York University in 1951, and his Ph.D. degree in
psychology from Pennsylvania State University in 1956. After applying his psychology education in a variety of arenas, he joined the faculty of the Department
of Psychology in 1959 as an assistant professor. In 1964, he was appointed associate professor of social work and associate professor of psychology; he was promoted to professor of social work and professor of psychology in 1966.
One of the school's leading instructors in the area of research, Professor
Gordon played a major role in the integration of research and clinical practice.
His expertise was shared with the U.S. Department of Labor for many years, first
in establishing selection, assessment, and training procedures for the Youth
Opportunity Program, and then as head of a social service organization in which
social science knowledge was to be applied to the development of training materials for employment agency personnel. While at the University and School of Social Work, Professor Gordon served on numerous committees to which he was
elected by his colleagues. His knowledge of funding sources and grantmanship
led to securing research grants and contracts for the University community.
Included in Professor Gordon's extensive publication record is the college-level
text Personality and Behavior. His retirement marks the departure of an
outstanding member of the faculty of the School of Social Work and leader of the
University community.


107




October Meeting, 1993


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jesse E. Gordon
professor emeritus of social work and professor emeritus of psychology.
E. Lawrence McMahon, associate professor of electrical engineering and
computer science, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after 34
years of service.
Professor McMahon earned his B.S. degree (electrical engineering) from
Fournier Institute in Lamont, Illinois, in 1952, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from the University of Illinois in 1953 and 1955, respectively. After graduation,
Professor McMahon served as a research engineer at Hughes Aircraft Corporation from 1955-56 and as an assistant professor at Michigan State University
from 1956-59. He joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in
the Department of Electrical Engineering in 1959 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1963.
From the time he joined the University of Michigan faculty, Professor
McMahon was highly dedicated to students. From 1965-69, he administered the
department's graduate fellowship program. He then assisted in the coordination
of the graduate admissions program. Professor McMahon has made many contributions to the department's instructional programs, both in teaching and in new
course development. These contributions were recognized in 1982 when he received the Eta Kappa Nu Faculty Award for outstanding performance in teaching and student-faculty relations. Professor McMahon has served on both
departmental and College of Engineering curriculum committees. He has also
been active in advising both graduate and undergraduate students and has provided invaluable service as a counselor for undergraduate electrical engineering
students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his many years of service
by naming E. Lawrence McMahon associate professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
Bernard Van't Hul, associate professor of English language and literature, will retire from active faculty status on October 31, 1993, following 23 years
of service.
A native of Rock Valley, Iowa, Professor Van't Hul attended Calvin College
in Grand Rapids from which he received his B.A degree in 1959. Dutch was the
language of his home, and his military service in Europe honed his fluency in
German. As an undergraduate, he deepened his knowledge of languages, particularly those bearing on medieval Europe. He continued his studies at Northwestern University where he received his M.A degree in 1961 and his Ph.D. degree in
1971. While completing his doctoral work, he held a faculty position at Calvin
College and, in 1969, he joined the University of Michigan faculty with a joint appointment in the Department of English and the Middle English Dictionary. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1972.
Lexicography requires the exacting attention to detail which has been a hallmark of Professor Van't Hul's teaching and scholarship, and his contributions to
the Middle English Dictionary added to the excellence of this monumental work.
At the same time, he was drawn to public service through a concern for the
teaching of English in Michigan schools. One of the founding activists in the


108




October Meeting, 1993


creation of the English Composition Board, he led workshops and in-service programs for teachers in more than 300 Michigan schools. With his colleague, Jay L.
Robinson, he created a set of middle school textbooks designed to introduce students to the study of the English language. In recent years, his undergraduate
teaching has pioneered the use of computer conferencing to engage each student
in the minute study of literary texts.
Professor Van't Hul has been recognized for excellence throughout his academic career. At the beginning of his graduate studies, he was a Woodrow Wilson
Fellow; at Calvin College, he was named to a Danforth Fellowship; and, in 1981,
he received the Faculty Recognition Award at the University of Michigan.
The Regents now honor this faculty member by naming Bernard Van't Hul
associate professor emeritus of English language and literature.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the remainder of the consent agenda as listed above.
University of Michigan Financial Report and Audited Financial Statements for the Alumni Association for the Year Ended June 30, 1993
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the University of Michigan Financial Report and Audited Financial Statements for the Alumni Association for
the Year Ended June 30, 1993.
Easement at 1327 Geddes
Executive Vice President Womack noted that the Regents Communication
responds to the Regents' previous question about the use the property owner
intended to make of the property. Regent Baker commented that if the owner of
the property, Mr. Stegeman, ever abandons the idea of building a house on the
property, it would be in the University's interest to obtain the property. He also
noted that the site is currently used as a storage area for trash and is rather
unsightly.
Regent Power moved authorization for the execution of an agreement with
John C. Stegeman and Lois U. Stegeman stating that the University will vacate
the common driveway easement at 1327 Geddes, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent McGowan said that she would abstain from voting on
this item due to a conflict of interest. The vote was then taken, and the motion
was approved, with Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, Power, Varner, and
Waters in favor, and Regent McGowan abstaining.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Global Rivers
Environmental Education Network (GREEN)
Regent Waters moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, an agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Global Rivers Environmental Education Network (GREEN), a non-profit


109




October Meeting, 1993


corporation. Because two members of the board of directors of GREEN, William
Stapp and Orin Gelderloos, are also University employees, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Global Rivers Environmental Education Network (GREEN).
2.   At the request of General Motors, the University will transfer $110,000 to
GREEN from its General Motors Foundation grant. The University expects to
issue subcontracts to GREEN under two federally-funded projects: National
Consortium for Environmental Education and Training, about $25,000 for one
year, and National Science Foundation, about $440,000 over two years. Terms
of these agreements will be consistent with University policy and with the requirements of the prime funding agencies.
3.   Neither Dr. Stapp nor Dr. Gelderloos have a proprietary interest in GREEN.
Dr. Stapp will receive nominal compensation of up to $5,000 from GREEN for
his role as honorary director. Dr. Gelderloos will receive no compensation from
GREEN.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
a Partnership owned in part by University Employees (Koren, Levine,
and Bell)
Regent Waters moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the University's entering into a license agreement with a partnership owned in part by University employees Yoram Koren, Simon Levine,
and David Bell. These employees, along with Lon Bell, a person not employed at
the University, have developed a technology known as "Human Disturbance
Modeling for Adaptive Control of Human-Machine Systems" (the "Technology"),
and have also formed a partnership with the goal of developing products and
services which use the Technology. Because Messrs. Koren, Levine, and David
Bell are University employees and also have ownership interest in the partnership, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and a partnership,
owned in part by Messrs. Koren, Levine, and David Bell.
2.   Terms of the contract include: a duration of the term of the last to expire of
any patents, and consideration to the University consisting of the payment of
royalties, including modest minimum annual requirements, on products covered by patents on the Technology; a share of sublicensing revenues received by
the partnership; and reimbursement of future University patent filing and
prosecution costs for the Technology, if applicable. The partnership will pay the
University royalties at a rate of 2.0 percent for products sold. The partnership
will also pay the University 15.0 percent of any sublicensing revenues the partnership receives. Minimum royalties shall commence in 1994 at $500 for the
first year, $1,000 for the second year, $3,000 for the third year, and $6,000 for
each year thereafter. The University retains ownership of all Technology. The
University retains the right to use the Technology for research, teaching and
other educationally-related purposes. The partnership shall diligently pursue
the commercial development and exploitation of the Technology covered by the
proposed license agreement. There is no use of facilities or services of the University included in the contract and no assignment of University employees for
fulfillment of the contract.


110




October Meeting, 1993


3.   The pecuniary interest of David Bell and Professors Koren and Levine in the
contract arises from their ownership of interests in the partnership. This equity
interest (as well as the equity interest of Lon Bell) will be in lieu of participation
in the sharing of royalties received by the University, in accordance with standard University policy.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Vice President Hartford submitted the second quarterly report of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 13.04 (University of Michigan
Alumni Association)
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents' Bylaw Section 13.04, regarding the
University of Michigan Alumni Association. The following is the text of the revised bylaw:
Sec. 13.04. University of Michigan Alumni Association
The Alumni Association of the University of Michigan shall be an independent
and self-governing body governed by a board of directors to be selected in accordance
with the bylaws of the association. Between meetings of the board of directors, the affairs of the association shall be in the charge of an executive committee which shall
consist of the president of the association and at least four other members of the board
of directors, to be elected annually by the board of directors. The executive committee
shall exercise the powers of the board of directors while the board is not in session, and
shall exercise such other powers as are herein conferred upon it, or may from time to
time be delegated by the board of directors.
The Business and Financial Affairs Committee shall consist of the president of
the Alumni Association, ex officio; the treasurer of the association, ex officio; the president of the University, ex officio; the vice president for development and communication, ex officio; the vice president and chief financial officer, ex officio; two directors of
the association; one member of the administrative staff of the University and two members of the faculty of the University, these last three of whom shall be alumni, to be
elected by the board of directors annually, subject to confirmation of the Regents. The
Business and Financial Affairs Committee shall approve the budget of the association
and thereby authorize expenditures and shall secure an audit of the books and the accounts of the association.
The treasurer of the association shall be elected by the board of directors for a
term of two years and shall be an alumnus of the University. The treasurer shall supervise the accounts of the association and control its monies or funds held in trust by it
and shall make such reports showing the financial condition of the association as may
be required by the board of directors or the Business and Financial Affairs Committee.
The treasurer shall exercise the usual powers of the office of treasurer, shall furnish
adequate bond, and shall perform such other duties as may be delegated to the treasurer by the Business and Financial Affairs Committee.
Academic Calendar Revision for University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision of the academic calendar for UM-Flint for the
winter 1994 term.


111




October Meeting, 1993


Horace H. Rackham Memorial Building in Detroit
Executive Vice President Womack called on Professor Harold Johnson to describe the actions requested with respect to the Horace H. Rackham Memorial
Building. Professor Johnson reported that a committee of active members of the
community had been formed to guide the University as to how the building related to the University's mission in Detroit. The consensus was that because the
building was not suited to the University's activities and people were not making
use of it, it should not be considered as a factor in shaping future University activities in the community. The committee recommended that whatever actions
were taken be done in cooperation with the Engineering Society of Detroit, and
that whatever was done ought to enhance the cultural area.
As described in the Regents Communication, the building needs to be
brought into compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, which will cost
between $1-2 million, and to be made functional, at a cost of $5-6 million. Professor Johnson stated that Wayne State University is extremely interested in the facility and has the resources to make the improvements that would be necessary
to utilize it. The University has invited the Engineering Society to convey its
share of the building to the University, which would in turn lease the entire facility to Wayne State. At the end of the proposed 25-year lease period, the University would retain control over the entire facility if it decided to use it for some
other purpose.
Regent Varner expressed the hope that if the proposed arrangement is consummated, some priority be given on the use of the funds for the University's
programmatic initiatives in Detroit. She also recommended that the University
increase its public relations efforts to inform people in that community of the
University's activities. Professor Johnson responded that a report of University
activities in the Detroit area was scheduled to be issued in the near future.
Regent Deitch stated that he supports the arrangement, but that this support is predicated on the University's retaining control of the property at the end
of the 25-year period.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Professor Johnson stated that
the parcel of land that may be conveyed or leased to the Engineering Society, as
described in the Regents Communication, would probably be in the Ann Arbor
area. He also responded to a question from Regent Baker about the Engineering
Society trust fund; Regent Baker pointed out that the Engineering Society has an
ongoing obligation with respect to the trust fund.
Vice President Harrison reiterated that he and Professor Johnson had been
charged with developing a direction in which to proceed for the use of this building, and that once that has been approved, Executive Vice President Womack's
staff would be in charge of working out the details.
In response to a comment from Regent Power, Chancellor Renick stated
that this action will have no effect at all on the Dearborn campus's programming
in Detroit. He recommended that UM-Dearborn's role in the region be considered as the University makes plans for increasing its presence in Detroit.


112




October Meeting, 1993


Following further discussion, Regent Waters moved authorization to negotiate a lease of the Horace H. Rackham Educational Memorial Building and the
parking structure to Wayne State University in consideration of Wayne State
University's assumption of both the responsibilities concerning the educational
activities taking place and the renovation costs necessary to meet the deferred
maintenance requirements and the Americans with Disabilities Act and other required code upgrades within the leased space, with such lease to occur after
Michigan attorney general and judicial approval are obtained. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
There followed a 30-minute break, from 10:30 to 11:00 am.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Marcia Federbush, citizen, on the men's
gymnastics program, and Tim Retzloff, UM-Flint staff member and student, in
support of the recent amendment to Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06. They also
heard comments from the following individuals in praise of Chancellor Jones'
service at UM-Flint: Allen D. Arnold, president of Mott Community College;
Sixto C. Olivo, member of the UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee; Roberto
Quiroz, director of bilingual education for the Flint Public Schools and board
member of the Spanish Speaking Information Center; Bobbie Ewing, president
of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Flint Alumnae Chapter; Representative Floyd
Clack; James B. Franklin III, president of the Black Panhellenic Council of Flint;
Olive R. Beasley, citizen; and David Ready, Flint city administrator, on behalf of
the mayor of Flint.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:40 a.m.
The next meeting will be held on November 18 and 19, 1993. Regents' expenses
for the month of September 1993 totalled $169.20.
Ricard L.   nned   Secrary


113




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 18, 1993
The Regents assembled at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch,
McFee, McGowan, and Power. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy was also
present, as were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal. Regents Varner and Waters
and Chancellors Jones and Renick were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Brown, who made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on November 18, 1993, in the Regents' Room, immediately
following Public Comments, for the purpose of consulting with our
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics
indicated: Mike Milidonis, assistant coach of the men's gymnastic team, Robert
K. Darden II, head coach, Richard Dopp and Seth Rubin, team members, and
Robert MacDonald, parent of team member, all on the decision to drop the men's
gymnastics program; Scott Greenwood, political science student, on the decision
not to grant tenure to Jill Crystal; John Humphrey, faculty member, on administrative salary increases; Benjamin Bolger, student, on quality and accessibility of
undergraduate education; and Loretta Lee, student, on the Campus Sexual
Assault Victim's Bill of Rights.
Following Public Comments, at 4:55 p.m., the Regents met in closed session
in the Regents' Room.
Friday, November 19, 1993
The Regents met at 9:20 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Whitaker,


115




November Meeting, 1993


Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, and
Neal were also present, as was Chancellor Renick Vice President Hartford and
Chancellor Jones were absent; Provost Wong attended in the place of Chancellor
Jones.
Consent Agenda
September 1993 minutes. President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September 1993 meeting. Regent Power moved approval of the minutes of the original draft of the
minutes of the meeting of September 23-24, 1993, and Regent Waters seconded
the motion. Regent Power noted that the original version of the minutes was an
accurate summary of the discussion that occurred at that meeting. Regent Baker
disagreed, suggesting that not including a more complete version of his comments reflected inappropriate judgments with regard to freedom of speech and
freedom of discussion. Regent Brown pointed out that the Regents' policy is to
include sunmaries of people's statements, and that Regents' verbatim statements are included in a permanent file in the secretary's office. Following further
discussion, the vote was taken and the original version of the minutes of the
September 1993 meeting was approved, with Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Baker opposed.
October 1993 minutes. Regent Brown moved approval of the minutes of
the meeting of October 21-22, 1993. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Regent Baker requested that his negative vote at the September meeting on
the recommendation of M. Joseph Roberson as athletic director be changed to an
affirmative vote. Following some discussion, it was determined that a vote cannot
be changed once it has been made and recorded.
Report of Senate      Advisory   Committee    on  University   Affairs
(SACUA)
President Duderstadt introduced Professor Henry Griffin, chair of SACUA,
to present the report. Professor Griffin reported that SACUA's three major
concerns for the current year are grievance procedures, considerations of faculty
governance (a self-examination), and the diversity of faculty contributions to the
University's teaching and research functions. He described how faculty governance is structured, and then called on Jayne Thorson, executive assistant to
SACUA, who described the structure, function, and activities of the faculty senate office.
Professor Griffin then reported on SACUA's progress with respect to the
evaluation of the offices of the executive officers and deans, and in providing a
means for informal dispute resolution for faculty members. He also noted that
SACUA intends to undertake a study of the effectiveness of faculty governance.


116




November Meeting, 1993


Compliance with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA)
Judith Nowack, assistant vice president for research, and John O'Shea, professor of anthropology and director of the Museum of Anthropology, presented a
report describing the University's efforts to comply with the Native American
Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). NAGPRA is a law requiring
universities and museums that receive federal funds to first summarize or inventory, then return to Native American groups, upon request, human remains and
certain cultural objects shown to be affiliated with each Native American group.
Professor O'Shea reported that 324 objects in the Museum of Anthropology
came under the purview of NAGPRA, and that each tribe associated with each
object has been notified of its existence. At this time, no objects have been repatriated; nor have any claims been received. The action requested gives the University the freedom to negotiate with Native American groups, on an individual
basis, about possible long-term curation or other disposition of their materials.
The goal is to maintain the future accessibility of these materials for study.
Regent McGowan moved to authorize University officials to pursue negotiations with relevant Native American groups and ultimately to repatriate any of
those items and human remains which are both shown by its inquiries to be
"affiliated" and, at the end of the negotiation, requested by the Native American
group with which the affiliation exists. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
There followed some comments by the Regents, after which they returned
to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda, continued
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted the following consent agenda items to the Regents: reports of investments, plant extension,
litigation, and personnel-labor relations. Vice President Neal submitted reports
of projects established and summaries of a selection of current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of voluntary support.
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for program support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  A rts........................................................................................................................................ 30,000
AT&T Information Systems, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Global Business Partnership Program in the School of Business Administration......6,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for  research  in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 20,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the Biophysics Research Division, and the Institute of Gerontology................170,573
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research  in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy................................................................5,375
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research   in   the  M edical School........................................................................................................................................ 8,800
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for  research   in  the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................32,973


117




November Meeting, 1993


Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for  em ployee   m atching     gifts................................................................................................................................................. 98,641
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Hospitals Office of Social Work............................................................... 11,350
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........8,167
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for research in the Medical School....................... O.........................................................10,000
Esther Barnard Estate
for  the  School  of M usic..........................................................................................................................................20,530
Wilma Becknell Trust
for  the   School  of  Public  H ealth........................................................................................................................................120,000
Margaret E. Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Horace H.
Rackham     School of Graduate Studies...................................................................................................6,000
William Blair & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the William    R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School...........4............................4,973
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School................................................. 10,000
Doris C. Boyer Estate
for support in the Schools of Law and Music......................................................................... 15,000
Mildred N. Brant Estate
for  can cer  research..........................................................................................................................................................................22 4 18
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................20,000
Michael J. Callahan, Benton Harbor
1,000 shares of Fisher Price common stock for International Business Faculty
support in the School of Business Administration and for the Economics Campaign
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................................................35,188
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the Chelsea Milling Company Scholarship in the School of Nursing............................................20,000
Chi Group, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................6,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in  the  M edical School.................................................................................................................................... 15,000
James K. Clark Trust
for the James K. Clark Memorial in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering..........50,000
Jim Colosimo, Inc., Naples, Florida
for the Sterns Collection in the School of Music in honor of Virginia Patton Moss.................. 10,000
Hal Cooper, Beverly Hills, California
for the Hal Cooper Theatre Scholarship in the School of Music...............................................................20,000
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for  em ployee    m atching    gifts....................................................................................................................................................21,025
Delta Theta Phi Michigan Foundation, Troy
for the A. D. Ruesegger/Delta Theta Phi Scholarship in the Law School.............................................6,703
Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski, Bloomfield, Connecticut
800 shares of CMS Energy common stock for the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Colleges of Engineering
and    Literature,  Science, and     the  A rts.............................................................................................................................21,100
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical School....................................................................................................................................... 6,250
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for the Dow Chemical Company-Britton Fellowship in Chemistry, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for employee matching gifts...................................................... 25,967
Thomas C. Evans, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Paramount Communications common stock for the School of Music,
Museum of Art, University Musical Society, University of Michigan Hospitals, and
W  U O M /W    G R.................................................................VG R                 5,697..............................................................................................
Exxon Corporation, Irving, Texas
for the Exxon Education Foundation Grants in the College of Engineering, the
K. K. Landes Geology Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School of Business
A d m in istratio n...................................................................................................................................................................................2 7,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the School of Business Administration.....................................................................................25,000


118




November Meeting, 1993


Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for scholarships and other support in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering...........................................................................................................................................33,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the GTE Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.......................... 15,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library Development Fund................................................. 40,000
Roland T. Gerhart, Milford
for research in the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute...........................25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of Behavioral
Sciences....................................................................................................................................................................................................00
Sylvia Henning Trust
for the Albert A. Henning, Sylvia Henning, and Joan E. Henning Scholarship in the
College   of  E ngineering.............................................................................................................................................................5,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................30000
Jack E. Hill, Jackson
200 shares of Comerica Corporation common stock for the Medical School......................................5,438
Jesse Hill, Jr., Atlanta, Georgia
for the Jesse Hill Endowment in the School of Business Administration......................................... 10,000
Jeannette E. Holz Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Emil and Jeannette Holz Scholarship in the School of Music...................................................... 6,906
Honigman, Miller, Schwartz and Cohn, Detroit
for the Charles H. Tobias Library Fund in the Law                  School.............................................................................5,000
Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer & Weiss, P.C., Detroit
for the Ellen Joyce Alter Library Fund in the Law                 School........................................................................... 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health........................................................................................................... 185,545
Clair C. Johnston Estate
for civil engineering scholarships in the College of Engineering.................................................................. 7,019
Lester F. Johns Revocable Living Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Alvin Johnson Stewart, M.D., Fellowship in the Medical School............................................20,000
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts..............................................................................................125     00
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for the William      A. Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration....... 12,603
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Foundation Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and for research in the Biophysics Research Division.......................................................................... 59,050
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Ann Arbor
for the R. J. Johnson Fund in the Medical School................................................................................................. 20,000
Carl A. and Joan C. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics................................................................................25,000
L. Bates Lea, Glenview, Illinois
4,100 shares of various corporate common stocks for the L. Bates Lea Visiting
P rofessorship      in   the  Law   School...................................................................................................................................... 105,975
Leukemia Society of America, New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 19,170
Lilly Endowment, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the Bentley Historical Library......................................................................................................... 20,000
Katherine Ling Estate
for  the  K atherine    Ling   Scholarship................................................................................................................................340,000
Little Family Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowships in the School of Business
A d m in istratio n...................................................................................................................................................................................10,0 0 0
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for the McDonnell Douglas Scholarship and other support in the College of
E n gin eerin  g...........................................................................................................................................................................................20,0 00
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the PICAS: Mellon Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................250,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Fellows in Pharmaceutics Fund in the College of Pharmacy....................................60,000
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for neurology basic sciences research in the Medical School....................................................................... 16,500


119




November Meeting, 1993


Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for  em ployee   m  atching    ifts.................................................................................................................................... 1 830
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute...........................................220,500
Motorola, Inc., Semiconductor Products Sector, Phoenix, Arizona
for microelectronics research in the College of Engineering....................................................................... 10,000
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, Colorado
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering................................................6,300
Northern Telecom Europe, Ltd., Maidenhead, United Kingdom
for the Global Partnership Program            in the School of Business Administration.............................6,000
Robert M. Parke Estate
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering....................49........................49,191
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for arthritis research in the Medical School.............................................................................................. 50,000
Bernard E. and Marilyn Pincus Foundation, Southfield
for the Jacob Pincus Fund in the Medical School..................................................................................... 10,000
Duncan 0. Poth, San Antonio, Texas
for the Udo J. Wile-Duncan 0. Poth Endowment in the Medical School....................................... 50000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................30,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy...............................................10,000
Millard H. Pryor, Jr., Hartford, Connecticut
for international studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................25,000
Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Gatorade Senior Athletic Trainer Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.........80,000
Research Fund of the American Ontological Society, Davis, California
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 5,004
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................32,900
Richard H. Rogel, Southfield
for  the  U niversity    M usical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Royal Design and Manufacturing, Madison Heights
for research in the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering....................................6,000
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship and other support in the
C ollege   of  E ngineering...............................................................................................................................................................21,000
Anna Frances Schwinck Estate
for the Joseph Schwinck Student Aid Fund...............................................................................................................98,108
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Charles Ward Seabury Research Fellowship in the College of Architecture and
U rban     P lan n in g...............................................................................................................................................................................10,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Athletic Bands Fund in the School of Music............................................................................................25,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
6,100 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Herbert E. Sloan
Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the
Museum      of Art and the University Musical Society.........................................................................................300,588
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................99,754
Robert A. Straub, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Boeing Corporation common stock for scholarships in the Department
o f  A th letics........................................................................................................................................................................................... 19,3 7 5
Elizabeth 0. Sweet, Ann Arbor
for classical studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in
m em  ory    of  W aldo   E.  Sw eet...................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
TSG Ventures, Inc., New York, New York
for the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship and other support in the School of
B usiness   A dm  inistration..........................................................................................................................................................10,000
Obert C. and Grace A. Tanner Foundation, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecture in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................................................................................. 19,5 0 0
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for  research   in  the  School of Public    H  ealth..................................................................................................................5,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity   M usical Society..................................................................................................................................... 11,000


120




November Meeting, 1993


David Ulrich, Ann Arbor
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration...................................... 10,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for research in the Medical School..................................................................... 7,200
Harold & Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Education......................................................... 50,000
Varian Associates, Palo Alto, California
for research  in the Medical School.....................................................................................20,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School.............................................50,000
A. Marriott Walker, Birmingham
170 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock for the A. Marriott Walker
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering....................9,988
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert Distinguished Lectureship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for graduate student recruitment in the College of
Pharm acy.........................................................................................................  17,500
Ralph D. Yenner Estate
for the Undergraduate Student Aid Fund.....................................................50,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Applied Intelligent Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
an AIS 3500EX vision computer for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Center of Engineer~
ing Education and Practice
Laird U. Park, Jr., Villanova, Pennsylvania
a collection of early American newspapers dating from 1758 to 1805 for the Clements Library
Jay C. Willson, Santa Fe, New Mexico
a gold pocket watch inscribed: "J. C. Willson, December 25th 1886" for the University of
Michigan-Flint Library
Additional gifts ranging from    $1 to $999 in value were received from       the
following donors:
Bench Manufacturing Company, Concord, Massachusetts
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
David Bosse, Ann Arbor
Charles H. Buswell, Northville
Robert F. Haugh, Ann Arbor
Robert A Johnson, Grosse Pointe Park
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Sandra L. Kortesoja, Ann Arbor
Frank J. Massey III, Dearborn
Bradford Perkins, Ypsilanti
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective December 1, 1993
Jos6 E. Alvarez, J.D., Professor of Law


121




November Meeting, 1993


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Dennis R. Capozza, Professor of Finance, with tenure, and Stephen M. Ross Professor of Real
Estate, appointment extended as Stephen M. Ross Professor of Real Estate, five-year term
Brooks B. Hull, from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Acting Chair,
Department of Social Sciences, UM-to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn, two and one-half-year term
Beverly A. Jones, from Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs, School of Nursing, to Associate Dean
for Clinical Affairs, School of Nursing, one-year term, December 1, 1993
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
A Lorris Betz, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of
Neurology, without tenure, and Professor of Surgery, without tenure, also appointed
Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, Medical School, December 1, 1993
Elliot Soloway, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
School of Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Education, without tenure,
School of Education, five-year term, September 1, 1993
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Gordon L. Amidon, Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, also appointed the Charles R.
Walgreen, Jr., Professor of Pharmacy, six and one-half-year term, January 1, 1994
Elaine K Didier, Associate Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, five-year
term, December 1, 1993
Michael Giacalone, Jr., Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs-External Relations, Medical School,
November 18, 1993
Billie Melman, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor of Humanities, October 17 -November 20, 1993
Edward J. Frey Professorship in Banking and Finance. The Regents
approved changing the name of the Edward J. Frey Professorship in Banking to
the Edward J. Frey Professorship in Banking and Finance, effective December 1,
1993.
Waldo    0. Hildebrand      Professorship    in  Risk   Management and
Insurance. The      Regents approved      the  establishment of the     Waldo   0.
Hildebrand Professorship in Risk Management and Insurance, effective December 1, 1993.
The following committee appointments were submitted for aproval:
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
Reverend J. B. Bettendorf, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
Benjamin Davis, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
LaDonna Gamble, retroactive appointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996, fill vacant
position


122




November Meeting, 1993


Jack Hamady, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
Marianne Kugler, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
Anthony Mansour, retroactive appointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996, fill vacant
position
Ronald E. Silverman, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
Jennifer Smith, retroactive appointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996, fill vacant position
Don Spillman, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
Rita Stanley, retroactive appointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996, fill vacant position
Mary Turcke, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
Thomas Wrobel, retroactive reappointment from June 1, 1993, to May 30, 1996
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Richard Fortner, three-month term ending January 28, 1994, substitute for Duncan Kretovich,
during promotion and tenure deliberations
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Thomas 0. Dershem, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Bettina G. Fabos, MA, Lecturer I in Communication
Inigo Granzow-de la Cerda, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, January 1, 1994
V. Blair Hobbs, MA, Lecturer II in English, October 10, 1993
Nora Kalliel, MA, Lecturer II in Arabic Language
Michael C. King, MA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures
Andrew S. McNaught, BA, Lecturer II in Biology, January 1, 1994
Marilyn A Yaquinto, MA, Lecturer I in Communication
Medical School
Leslie J. Crofford, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, October 1, 1993
Karley Y. Little, M.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
Christine Persson, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, October 15, 1993
Michelle B. Riba, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, September 27, 1993
School of Nursing
Anne M. Teitelman, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
School of Public Health
Martha L. Herlocher, Ph.D., Lecturer in Epidemiology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective November 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Stephen W. Chensue, Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, September 1, 1993
Jeffrey P. Crabbe, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Douglas N. Henry, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, September 1, 1993
Todd E. Wilson, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology


123




November Meeting, 1993


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Joel B. Slemrod, Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy, with tenure, Jack D.
Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Karl E. Weick, Professor of Organizational Behavior, with tenure, Rensis Likert Collegiate
Professor of Organizational Behavior and Psychology, School of Business Administration,
and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Walter H. Clark, Jr., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1-December 31, 1993
Russell A. Fraser, Austin Warren Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1993, and retirement furlough,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Marcel N. Muller, Professor of French, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1993
Hitomi Tonomura, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1- December 31, 1993
Medical School
Allan C. Brown, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure, and Associate Professor
of Anesthesiology, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, extended sick
leave, October 9-November 5, 1993
Almyra 0. Fuller, Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, extended sick leave,
October 18-December 12, 1993
Cheryl S. Graham, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, August 9-27, 1993
John T. Headington, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Professor of Dermatology, without
tenure, retirement furlough, August 1-September 30, 1993
Patricia S. Klarr, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, July 24-August 17, 1993
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
Costas Kravaris, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1994)
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Victor H. Miesel, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1 -December 31, 1993 (previously reported as September 1, 1993-December 31, 1994)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Yasuko Aizawa, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, August 31, 1993
Marie N. Ashley, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, June 30, 1993
Jonathan R. Besancon, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, August 31, 1993
Luis A. Betancourt, Lecturer in Sociology, April 30, 1993
Birgit E. Brueckner, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Mary L. Butcher, Lecturer II in Communication, December 31, 1992


124




November Meeting, 1993


Walter H. Clark, Jr., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Daniel M. Goldenberg, Lecturer I in Philosophy, December 31, 1992
Michael C. Gurnis, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure
James D. Herbsleb, Lecturer II in Psychology, April 30, 1993
Kirsten F. Herold, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, June 30, 1993
Mayumi Ishida, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, August 31, 1993
Nancy A. Kotzian, Lecturer I in Communication, December 31, 1992
Elisa Lichtenbaum, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Katharine M. McGovern, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Noga Morag-Levine, Lecturer II in Political Science, December 31, 1992
Carol L. Munn, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Yasuhiro Omoto, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, August 31, 1993
Megan L. Orr, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Suzanne L. Parker, Lecturer I in Communication, December 31, 1992
Tricia A Perkins, Lecturer II in Mathematics, April 30, 1993
Jefferson M. Peters, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, June 30, 1993
David S. Reynolds, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Douglas W. Rideout, Lecturer II in Communication, April 30, 1993
John Rietz, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, June 30, 1993
Tamao Shimoyama, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, August 31, 1993
Alison M. Swan, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Leah Waks, Lecturer II in Communication, April 30, 1993
Sister Mary L. Warner, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, June 30, 1993
Pamela Webster, Lecturer in Sociology, April 30, 1993
Eileen Zerba, Lecturer I in Biology, April 30, 1993
Medical School
Harry L. Anderson III, Lecturer in Surgery, June 30, 1993
Inese Z. Beitins, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 15, 1993
James R. Chenoweth, Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 31, 1993
School of Nursing
Sylvia S. Hacker, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and Associate
Professor of Population Planning and International Health, without tenure, School of
Public Health
Ofice of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
Colleen Dolan-Greene, Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs-Personnel,
October 26, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Dorothy A Lee, Professor of Comparative Literature and English, with tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Theophilus S. Lynch, Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature, with tenure,
May 31, 1993
CORRECTIONS TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Medical School
Joseph A Walton, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, retired (previously reported as
resigned)
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted the following retirement memoirs:
Mara Julius, assistant research scientist in the Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1993,
after 23 years of service.


125




November Meeting, 1993


Dr. Julius earned her B.A degree in 1953, her M.S. degree in 1977, and her
Sc.D. degree in 1979, all from the University of Zagreb in Yugoslavia She first
came to the University of Michigan in 1960 as a visiting scholar at the Institute
for Social Research. From 1964-68, she was a teaching fellow and research assistant in the Department of Psychology. She joined the Department of Epidemiology in the School of Public Health in 1970 and held positions as research
associate, lecturer, and research investigator until 1986, when she was promoted
to the position of assistant research scientist.
In the Department of Epidemiology, Dr. Julius was responsible for the
psychosocial program for the Tecumseh Community Health Study, lectures in
the field of social epidemiology, research in areas of gender and ethnic differences
in health, and the impact of social support on the physical health in the elderly.
Her publications reflect a deep and continuing interest in the psychosocial risk
factors that influence the health of the elderly and their health behavior, the
family environment, and temporality in late life. Recently, her research has
centered around life events, suppressed anger, blood pressure as predictors of
mortality, and blood gluthathione as an indication of health status. Dr. Julius
served on various departmental committees, participated fully in departmental
and school affairs, and belonged to at least six professional organizations whose
activities were integral to her research and service interests.
Dr. Julius' career has been characterized by dedication to the social causes
she espoused, by psychobiological research aimed at improving the health of the
elderly, and by exemplary adherence to the highest ethical standards. The products of her research always exceeded the expectations of whatever multidisciplinary groups she worked with. Throughout her career, she earned the respect and
affection of her colleagues and students.
The Regents now salute this scientist for her dedicated service by naming
Mara Julius assistant research scientist emerita.
Dorothy A. Lee, professor of English and comparative literature at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1993.
Professor Lee received her B.A and M.A degrees from Wayne State University in 1945 and 1947, respectively. She then pursued graduate studies at
Radcliffe College, where she received a second M.A degree in 1948. She received
her Ph.D. degree from Radcliffe College and Harvard University in 1955. After
teaching at Wayne State University and Henry Ford Community College, Professor Lee joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn as an assistant professor of
comparative literature in 1972. She was promoted to associate professor in 1974
and to professor in 1978.
A very active faculty member who has contributed to all aspects of university life, Professor Lee is held in very high esteem by her faculty colleagues. She
was instrumental in establishing the Dearborn campus' comparative literature
program and developed and taught a wide variety of courses ranging from
African-American literature to Western world literature. She is perhaps best
known, however, for her course on myth and motif in literature. Through the
years, the outstanding student evaluations for this course have attested to
Professor Lee's reputation as an excellent instructor.


126




November Meeting, 1993


In addition to her excellence as a teacher, Professor Lee has also established
herself as a scholar. She has given numerous presentations at conferences in her
field and has authored publications on figures and topics as varied as James
Baldwin, African-American drama, Miguel de Unamuno, Harriet Arnow, and
Toni Morrison. In recognition of her outstanding attributes as a faculty member,
Professor Lee was awarded the University of Michigan-Dearborn's Distinguished
Teaching Award and Women's Commission Susan B. Anthony Award in 1985,
and the Michigan Association of Governing Boards of Colleges and Universities'
Distinguished Faculty Award in 1987.
The Regents now salute this teacher-scholar for her dedicated service by
naming Dorothy A Lee professor emerita of English and comparative literature.
Theophilus S. Lynch, professor of Spanish and comparative literature at
the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1993, after a most productive career as a teacher, advisor, and department leader.
Professor Lynch received his B.A degree from Williams College in 1947,
following distinguished service in the Pacific theater of action during World War
II. He then went on to receive his M.A and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1951 and 1959, respectively. Professor Lynch taught at Rutgers
University and Ohio University prior to joining UM-Flint in 1966 as an associate
professor without tenure. He was awarded tenure in 1968 and was promoted to
fill professor in 1972.
A knowledgeable and caring teacher, Professor Lynch has had a following of
devoted students throughout his long career at the University. At the time of his
arrival on the Flint campus, the foreign language department had no faculty in
Spanish. Professor Lynch was responsible for founding the campus' program in
Spanish, which is currently the most popular language program at UM-Flint.
This popularity is in no small measure attributable to his wisdom, dedication,
and skill. After founding the Spanish program, Professor Lynch demonstrated an
astonishing versatility by offering classes in Portuguese and Latin. A respected
scholar in Spanish and Portuguese literature, Professor Lynch has always carried
his learning and his dedication into the classroom, along with a characteristic
touch of humor. He has been an inspiration to his students and a source of
strength to his colleagues in the college.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Theophilus S. Lynch professor emeritus of Spanish and
comparative literature.
Henryk Skolimowski, professor of humanities in the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1993.
Born in Poland, Professor Skolimowski attended the Warsaw College of
Music from 1948-52. He received his M.Sc. degree from the Warsaw Institute of
Technology in 1956, his M.A degree from the University of Warsaw in 1959, and
his Ph.D. degree from Oxford University in 1964. From 1964-70, Professor Skolimowski taught at the University of Southern California. He joined the University
of Michigan as a visiting associate professor in the College of Engineering's Department of Humanities in 1970. He was promoted to professor in 1972 and
achieved tenure in 1974.


127




November Meeting, 1993


Throughout his tenure at the University of Michigan, Professor Skolimowski has pursued his study of ecological humanism and eco-philosophy. He
has also held visiting professorships at Madras University in India; the California
Institute of Integral Studies in San Francisco; and the University of Warsaw in
Poland.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his many years of dedicated
service by naming Henry Skolimowski professor emeritus of humanities.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Whitaker also submitted the December 1993 Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies Doctoral Degree list; the May 1993 Law
School final degree list; the August 1993 final degree lists for various school, colleges, divisions, and branch campuses; and changes in previously approved degree lists. A copy of each degree list is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the
University.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the remainder of the consent agenda as listed above.
Executive officer salaries. Regent Baker commented that he disagreed
with the salary levels of some of the executive officers; he pointed out that these
salaries are not set by the Regents. Regent Deitch responded that he believes the
salary levels set for the executive officers are appropriate, and that it was injurious to the officers to state that he disagreed with some of the salaries for particular officers.
Henry Russel Lecturer
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
approved the appointment of Elizabeth M. Douvan, Catherine Neafie Kellogg
Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, as the Henry Russel Lecturer for
1994.
University of Michigan 1993 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
for Year Ended June 30, 1993
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the 1993 Financial Report
Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1993.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the Six Month Report on
University Audits for the period April 1, 1993, through September 30, 1993.
University Real Estate
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a proposed policy regarding
acceptance of gifts of real estate. The policy would require a phase I
environmental assessment. The acceptance of a gift of real estate would then be
subject to: the donor's indemnifying the University for any liability arising out of
violation or noncompliance with environmental law or the presence of


128




November Meeting, 1993


environmental contamination, and providing a confession of judgment stating
that if the donor breaches any of the warranties in the indemnification agreement the donor would have authorized the University to enter a judgment
against the donor to rescind the transfer so that the University is removed from
the chain of title. The Regents Communication also requests certain amendments to Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07.
Executive Vice President Womack described the recent history of properties
that have been donated to the University, noting that the average holding period
of properties that have been sold is nine years, with an average holding period for
all unsold properties of twelve years. The properties that have been sold have
totalled $1 million, with expenses for holding those properties being $350,000.
Sixty percent of the total amount of property sold was derived from four
properties.
Executive Vice President Womack stated that the University did not intend
to dissuade donors from giving valuable properties to the institution. However, it
is often the case that real estate donated to the University is not very valuable.
The proposed policy yields maximum protection to the University.
Vice President Cosovich said that the development office had helped develop
the proposed policy and was in support of it. He noted that the University does
not actively seek gifts of real estate, and such gifts do not constitute a large
component of development activity.
In the discussion that followed, the Regents expressed concern over the
attempt to protect the University from liability versus creating a disincentive for
people to donate real estate. Particular concern was directed toward the "confession of judgment" provision, with Regents Power, Deitch, and Brown noting that
this could be viewed as a "donor-unfriendly" requirement that would constitute a
disincentive to donate. Regent Deitch suggested as an alternative that a deed be
placed in escrow at the time a gift is made.
Executive Vice President Womack responded that this would not solve the
problem of removing the University from the chain of title. Regent McFee stated
that the intent of the proposal, to protect the University from liability, was of
critical importance. Regent Brown expressed support for Regent Deitch's suggestion of placing a deed in escrow back to the donor, but also expressed doubt that
either a confession of judgment or a deed in escrow would totally protect the
University from liability for environmental contamination.
In response to other comments, Executive Vice President Womack pointed
out that most of the real estate donated to the University consists of vacant lots
and some residences, and the University must expend resources to cary that
property until it is sold. He also noted that the proposed policy specifically
exempts property considered for academic and research programs of the
University.
President Duderstadt suggested that the Regents consider moving forward
with the phase I environmental assessment provisions, with the understanding


129




November Meeting, 1993


that University officials exercise judgment in enforcing the confession of judgment provision.
Regent Deitch stated that the discussion had convinced him that there is
nothing wrong with the University's saying that there are certain types of gifts
that it really doesn't want. The confession of judgment makes the indemnity
stronger and helps to discourage this type of giving. He moved that the policy be
adopted with the understanding that if, in a particular circumstance, it is felt
that there is good cause for a waiver, that can be recommended to the Board.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, but suggested that language of exception be written into the policy. Regent Deitch expressed agreement with that
suggestion; Executive Vice President Womack suggested the motion be voted on
with the understanding that such language would thereafter be drafted that
would accommodate the discussion.
In response to a question from Regent Baker about the tax consequences for
the donor when a gift is accepted conditionally, Executive Vice President
Womack stated that this issue would be considered in the additional language to
be drafted.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the following
motion was approved unanimously, with the understanding that the additional
language outlined in the discussion will be incorporated and brought back to the
Regents, and that the bylaw revision will be subject to the normal bylaw revision
procedures:
Modifications to Real Estate Policy
Prior to accepting a gift of real estate, the University will require the
donor to provide a Phase I environmental assessment;
*   If the property is environmentally acceptable, the donor will be
required to execute an Agreement to Indemnify and a Confession of
Judgment, except for residential properties, in which case the
University may, under appropriate circumstances, decide not to
require a Confession of Judgment;
The donor will agree to pay all expenses associated with the land
including taxes and assessments until the property is sold. (Property
in the state of Michigan will be removed from the tax rolls in the
year following the gift.)
Bylaw Sec. 3.07, subsections la. and lb., as revised (additions underlined)
a.  All sales of donated or bequeathed real estate located outside the Ann Arbor,
Dearborn, or Flint campus areas regardless of the sales price; real estate that
funds a Unitrust for any amount or location; and bequeathed or devised real
property requiring action by an estate executor, personal representative or trustee
may be approved and authorized by the executive vice president and chief financial officer.dllfThe resulting land contracts and deeds will be executed by both


130




November Meeting, 1993


the president and the executive vice president and chief financial officer. These
transactions will be reported to the Regents in an item for information.
b.   Any sale authorized by the executive vice president and chief financial officer
must equal or exceed the appraised value except for fractional interest estate
1Qproperties. For those properties held in an estate in which the University's interest is fractional, the University will cooperate with the estate's legally appointed representative regarding terms and appraisal requirements to
accomplish a sale.
Donor Pooled Income Fund
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following resolution, which authorizes changes
in the trusteeship and investment management of the Donor Pooled Income
Fund and appointment of a custodian of the Donor Pooled Income Fund's assets.
RESOLUTION TO CHANGE THE SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE AND
INVESTMENT MANAGER OF THE DONOR POOLED INCOME FUND
AND TO AMEND THE DECLARATION OF TRUST
OF THE DONOR POOLED INCOME FUND
WHEREAS, NBD Bank, NA was appointed by the Regents of the University of Michigan
as successor trustee of the Donor Pooled Income Fund upon its creation in 1975, and now wishes
to resign as successor trustee;
WHEREAS, under the Declaration of Trust of the Donor Pooled Income Fund, the
Regents of the University of Michigan have retained authority to remove and appoint a
replacement successor trustee;
WHEREAS, subject to confirmation by the Probate Court of the resignation of NBD
Bank, NA and the University's acceptance of the bank's resignation; and,
WHEREAS, subject to confirmation by the Probate Court of the Regents' exercise of their
reserved power to appoint a replacement successor trustee;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Regents of the University of Michigan hereby authorize, approve, and direct the following:
1.   Acceptance of the resignation of NBD Bank, NA, as successor trustee;
2.   Appointment of the Regents of the University of Michigan to be successor
trustee, in exercise of their authority reserved in Article 2.1 of the Declaration
of Trust of the Donor Pooled Income Fund;
3.   Appointment of NBD Bank, NA as investment manager of the Donor Pooled
Income Fund;
4.   All actions necessary by the appropriate University executive officers to make
and execute amendments of the Declaration of Trust to appoint a custodian of
the Donor Pooled Income Fund.
Estate of Helen F. Weber-Real Estate
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of the offer of St. John Real Estate Company
to purchase the NE 1/4 of the SW 1/4, the N 1/2 of the SE 1/4, and the SE 1/4 of


131




November Meeting, 1993


the SE 1/4, Section 34, T41N, R25W, Harris Township, Menominee County at a
price of $34,500, subject to the retention of the mineral rights by the University.
State Funded Capital Projects
This is a request for authorization to finance initial construction cash flow
requirements for two major projects to be financed by the State Building Authority (SBA)-the Integrated Technology Instruction Center (ITIC) and Central
Campus Renovations-through the issuance of bond anticipation notes secured
by a pledge of student fees.
Regent Brown moved the following: that the cash flow requirements, for up
to $12.0 million, be financed through the issuance of bond anticipation notes
which will mature no later than June 30, 1994. The bond anticipation notes will
ultimately be reimbursed from the SBA bond or note sale proceeds. The University believes that the SBA will be in a position to retire the University's bond
anticipation notes on a timely basis. In the unlikely event that the State/SBA are
not in a position to either retire the notes or provide for the balance of the
construction cash flow requirements, we will be obliged to return to the Regents
with an alternative financing plan which could include the issuance of renewed
notes or Student Fee Bonds which would be amortized over a period of up to
thirty years. As a final source of payment the University will covenant to use legally available funds to pay the principal and interest on the Notes. It is anticipated that the sale of the tax-exempt bond anticipation notes will be through a
public competitive bid process whereby the University will prepare and circulate
a preliminary official statement and a notice of sale requesting bids.
Regent Brown further moved adoption of a resolution (see Appendix A, page
137) that authorizes the executive vice president and chief financial officer to:
1. develop the terms and legal documentation for the Bond
Anticipation Notes, and to prepare, circulate and execute
preliminary and final official statements describing the Bond
Anticipation Notes, the University and its affairs; and
2.  apply for and obtain from   Moody's Investors Service and
Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the Bond
Anticipation Notes; and
3.  publish a notice of sale, receive bids, award the Bond
Anticipation Notes to the winning bidder, execute an order
establishing the terms of notes, and execute and deliver the
notes.
Regent Varner seconded the motion. Regent Baker expressed concern that
the state will be able to follow through on its commitment to finance the projects.
In response, Vice President Kennedy stated that the State Building Authority
has given all necessary approvals; this action will merely use the University's
funds, rather than state ftinds, as cash flow to finance the early part of construction. It is anticipated that these funimds will be reimbursed by the SBA within the


132




November Meeting, 1993


first six months of 1994. Regent Baker observed that there is a high risk that the
state will not be able to follow through on this commitment.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was
approved, with Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and
Waters in favor and Regent Baker opposed.
North Campus Bell Tower
Executive Vice President Womack reported that a potential donor has
expressed a strong interest in the construction of a bell tower to be sited
somewhere in the vicinity of the future North Campus diag.
In response to a comment from Regent Power, Executive Vice President
Womack stated that the Regents would have an opportunity to review the plans
for the structure before its construction. In response to a question from Regent
Deitch, Provost Whitaker reported that a bell tower was part of a much larger
gift and that the idea of a bell tower was very important to the donor.
Regent Baker asked for clarification as to whether the project was a carillon
or a bell tower. Provost Whitaker responded that it involves both the structure
(the bell tower) and the bells within the structure (the carillon). Regent Deitch
moved approval of initiating the design of a bell tower for North Campus and selecting Moore/Andersson Architects in conjunction with Hobbs + Black Associates, Inc., as the design architect. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Renovation/Construction Projects
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved replacement of the air handling unit at the University
Hospital Med Inn Building and construction of a Radrick Farms recreation
facility.
University of Michigan Hospitals Radiology Angiographic Equipment
Replacement and Renovations
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of three angiographic imaging systems and
completion of renovations for equipment installation in the Radiology
Department at University of Michigan Hospitals.
University of Michigan Hospitals Radiation Oncology Linear Accelerator Replacement
Regent Waters moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need to the Michigan Department of Public Health for $2,266,800 to replace one of the linear accelerator
treatment machines in the Radiation Oncology Department.


133




November Meeting, 1993


University of Michigan Hospitals Supplemental Certificate of Need for
Patient Care Information System
Regent Deitch moved approval for submission of a supplemental Certificate
of Need to the Michigan Department of Public Health for a patient care information system, increasing the budget limit from $7 million to $30 million. Regent
Waters seconded the motion, and following some discussion about the specific
features of the technology, it was approved unanimously.
Restriction on Equity Investments in Companies Operating in
South Africa
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLUTION REGARDING UNIVERSITY INVESTMENTS
IN ORGANIZATIONS OPERATING IN THE
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
WHEREAS the Regents have expressed repeatedly their conviction that the system of
apartheid and the oppressive practices of the government of the Republic of South Africa related
thereto are immoral and unconscionable; and
WHEREAS in March 1983 the Regents, acting in support of anti-apartheid efforts,
directed the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to take prudent action to divest equity
investments in any organizations operating in the Republic of South Africa and to make no
further equity investments in such companies; and
WHEREAS Nelson Mandela, the leader of the African National Congress, in an address to
the United Nations Special Committee Against Apartheid on September 4, 1993, called for an
end to economic sanctions, declaring, "To strengthen the forces of democratic change, and to
help create the necessary conditions for stability and social progress, we believe that the time has
come when the international community should lift all economic sanctions against South
Africa"; and
WHEREAS Mr. Mandela called for help in "halting the slide to a socioeconomic disaster in
South Africa," noting that millions of South Africans "have no food, no jobs, no homes"; and
WHEREAS Mr. Mandela made his statement the day after the Parliament of the Republic
of South Africa adopted a package of laws intended to provide Black citizens with a voice in the
government of their nation; and
WHEREAS President Clinton eliminated remaining U.S. trade sanctions and indicated
that his administration will encourage investment in South Africa, stating, "This call from this
courageous man who has been one of the principal victims of apartheid means that the leading
groups in South Africa now oppose the maintenance of economic sanctions on their country";
IT IS THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board removes the investment restrictions
placed in resolutions adopted in March 1983 as modified in September 1985 and October 1988,
and directs the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to take prudent action to
effect the change in investment policy.
Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (Michael L. Boninger, M.D.)
Regent Brown moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved a modified standard assignment agreement with Michael L.


134




November Meeting, 1993


Boninger, M.D., for the intellectual property "Fall Prevention Sock" (UM   File
No. 781). Because Dr. Boninger is both a party to the agreement and a University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Contract. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement(s) will be the University of Michigan and
Michael L. Boninger, M.D.
2.   Terms of the contract include: standard terms in accordance with those previously disclosed to and approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, with the
following exceptions:
The first sentence of Paragraph 2c requiring the inventor to use due diligence
in pursuing a patent has been deleted. The inventor hopes to pursue a patent
and commercialize the invention through the University of Pittsburgh (see below) but cannot insure it.
The first sentence of paragraph 2d requiring the inventor to submit annual
reports of patenting and commercialization activity has also been deleted.
Pursuant to section 12, approval has been given to the inventor to assign his
interests in the invention to the University of Pittsburgh where he is now
employed.
3.   The pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by the
Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this
action request.
Change in Name of Physics/Engineering Science Department at
UM-Flint
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved changing the name of the Physics/Engineering Science
Department at UM-Flint to the Physics and Engineering Science Department.
Revision of Regents' Bylaws Concerning Titles of Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer
Regent Deitch moved that all affected sections of the Regents' Bylaws in
which the titles "provost and vice president for academic affairs" and "vice president and chief financial officer" appear be amended to read "provost and executive vice president for academic affairs" and "executive vice president and chief
financial officer," respectively. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals executive
board Regent Brown moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.


135




November Meeting, 1993


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:15 a.m.
The next meeting will be held on December 16 and 17, 1993. Regents' expenses
for the month of October 1993 totalled $715.62.
Richard L.  nne   Secr7iry


136




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1993


APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BOND ANTICIPATION
NOTES IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $12,000,000
TO TEMPORARILY FINANCE PART OF THE COST OF ACQUISITION
CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION AND EQUIPPING OF CERTAIN PROJECTS
AND RELATED COSTS, AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF THE
NOTES AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
needs of students attending The University of Michigan (the "University"), the Regents of the
University of Michigan (the "Issuer") has authorized the acquisition, construction and equipping
of an Integrated Technology Instruction Center and an Engineering Center, and the renovation
of C.C. Little and Angell Hall, each on the Ann Arbor Campus of the University (collectively, the
"Project"); and
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority has stated its intention to provide permanent financing for a portion of the costs of the Project; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures
of the University's funds the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue its Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993 (hereinafter defined as the "Notes") in the principal amount of not to exceed Twelve Million Dollars ($12,000,000) for the purpose of temporarily financing part of the
cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating and equipping the Project, paying capitalized interest
on the Notes, and paying the expenses related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Notes;
and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project will serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, in order to market the Notes in the most economic manner it is necessary to
authorize the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or the Associate Vice President for Finance (each an "Authorized Officer") to make determinations as to the terms of the
Notes, within the limits set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has full power under
its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to acquire, construct, renovate and equip the Project, to pay
part of the cost thereof by issuance of the Notes;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following terms
shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Governmental Obligations" means any of the following which at the time of investment
are legal investments for the moneys proposed to be invested therein: direct general obligations
of, or obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, or other obligations, including defeased tax-exempt securities and maturing interests in a trusteed fund or funds composed entirely of any of the


137




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


foregoing instruments, the timely payment of which is fiully secured by the payment of principal
and interest on direct general obligations of, or obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received, earned
through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Note Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate
having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from
its funds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally used by the
Issuer to pay principal of and interest on the Notes, but shall not include any funds (a) currently
or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans, bonds or debt service on
other obligations, or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of which
would result in the Notes herein authorized being construed as a general obligation of the Issuer
or as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Note" or "Notes" means the Regents of the University of Michigan Bond Anticipation
Notes, Series 1993, to be issued under this Resolution in the aggregate principal amount of not to
exceed $12,000,000.
"Note Fund" means the University of Michigan Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993 Note
Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Noteholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Notes) means the registered owner
of any Note.
"Note Payment Date" means the maturity date of the Notes which shall be established by
an Authorized Officer.
"Outstanding" or "Notes outstanding" means, as of any date, all Notes delivered under the
Resolution, except (i) Notes theretofore acquired by the Issuer and cancelled and (ii) Notes for
which the Issuer shall have made provision for payment in accordance with the Resolution by depositing with the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent cash or cash and Government Obligations, the principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal of
and interest on said Notes as the same become due through maturity.
"Project" means the project referenced in the preambles hereto.
"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993
Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by an Authorized Officer or any
successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 301 or 308.
"University" means the University of Michigan.
ARTICLE II
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF NOTES
Section 201. Necessity for Issuance of the Notes. The Issuer, in the exercise of its
powers and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the
Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Notes for the purposes
set forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable the Issuer to temporarily finance the cost of the acquisition, construction and equipping of the Project.


138




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


ARTICLE mI
THE NOTES
Section 301. Authorization of the Issuance of the Notes For the purposes set forth
in Article II, there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Twelve Million Dollars
($12,000,000) as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, and in evidence thereof there
shall be issued the Notes of the Issuer which shall be designated "Bond Anticipation Notes, Series
1993", in like aggregate principal amount. The Notes shall be sold, at a discount not exceeding
1% of the principal amount of the Notes, at public sale following publication of a notice of sale in
the form to be approved by an Authorized Officer, and shall be awarded to the winning bidder as
shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. The Notes shall bear such rate of interest as shall
be set forth in the winning bid, but the net interest cost for the Notes, taking into account the
rate and any discount or premium, shall not exceed 4% per annum. An Authorized Officer may
place additional limitations on the bids in the Notice of Sale and may determine to award the
Notes on the basis of either true interest cost or net interest cost.
The Notes shall be dated as of a date to be selected by an Authorized Officer, shall be payable from the sources as hereinafter set forth, shall be issued in fully-registered form in the denomination of $100,000 or integral multiples thereof and shall be numbered consecutively from 1
upwards. The Notes shall mature on the date specified by an Authorized Officer, but not later
than June 30, 1994.
The Notes shall bear interest payable on the maturity date. The principal amount of and
interest on each Note shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America upon surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of a bank or trust company designated
by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (the "Transfer Agent") in such coin
or currency of the United States of America as may be, on the respective dates of payment
thereof, legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America.
Section 302. Limited Obligation~ The Notes shall be limited obligations of the Issuer
payable solely from the sources of funds specified in Article VI, and the Notes shall not be a debt
or liability of the State of Michigan or a general obligation of the Issuer.
Section 303. Execution, Authentication and Delivery. The Notes shall be signed in
the name of and on behalf of the Issuer by facsimile signature of its Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or its Associate Vice President for Finance printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. No Note shall be valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of
the Transfer Agent. The Notes, when executed and authenticated, shall be delivered by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance to
the purchaser thereof upon payment of the purchase price therefor determined pursuant to Section 1001 hereof. Executed blank Notes for registration of transfer shall be delivered to the
Transfer Agent for safekeeping concurrently with the delivery of the Notes, and from time to
time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Notes shall cease to
be such officer before the delivery of such Notes, either as part of the initial delivery of the Notes
or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The Transfer
Agent's certificate of authentication of any Note shall be deemed to have been executed by it if
signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be necessary that the
same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Notes issued hereunder.
Section 304. No Redemption of Notes. The Notes shall not be subject to redemption
prior to maturity.
Section 305. Form of Issuance and Transfer of the Notes. The Notes shall be issued
in the form of fully-registered notes without coupons. Any Note may be exchanged for Notes of
other authorized denominations or transferred upon the books required to be kept pursuant to
this section by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the Note to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent.
Whenever any Note or Notes shall be surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Executive Vice


139




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or cause to be executed, as specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall
authenticate and deliver a new Note or Notes, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like
interest rate and maturity. The Transfer Agent shall require the payment by the Noteholder requesting the transfer or exchange of any tax or other governmental charge required to be paid
with respect to the transfer or exchange.
The Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient books
for the registration and transfer or exchange of the Notes, which shall at all times be open to inspection at reasonable times by the Issuer and its auditors or their designees; and, upon presentation for such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under regulations as it may prescribe, transfer
or exchange or cause to be transferred or exchanged, on said books, Notes as hereinbefore
provided.
The form of the Notes shall be substantially as follows:
(Form of Note)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
BOND ANTICIPATION NOTE,
SERIES 1993
No.                     Maturity Date:________       Principal Amount_
Interest Rate:                               Date of Original Issue:
Registered Holder: _
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by
and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan (the "Issuer"), for value received, hereby promises to pay the Principal Amount shown above to the Registered Holder or
registered assigns, in lawful money of the United States of America on the Maturity Date shown
above, with interest thereon until maturity from the Date of Original Issue at the Interest Rate
shown above, payable on the Maturity Date. Principal of and interest on this note is payable at
the principal corporate trust office of_                in, Michigan
(the "Transfer Agent") or such other transfer agent as the Issuer may hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered owner not less than 10 days prior to the Maturity Date.
This note is one of an issue of bonds (the "Notes"), of like tenor, except as to denomination,
aggregating the principal amount of $, all issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by
the Issuer on, 1993 (the "Resolution"), for the purpose of paying part of the cost
of the acquisition, construction, renovation and equipping of certain capital projects on the Ann
Arbor Campus of the University of Michigan, paying capitalized interest on the Notes, and paying costs related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Notes, all in accordance with the
authority vested in the Issuer by law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Notes, including this note, are limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable
solely from the capitalized interest and the proceeds of debt issued by the Issuer or the Michigan
State Building Authority deposited in the Note Fund established pursuant to the Resolution, and
from Legally Available Funds, as defined in the Resolution. Except as provided above, no recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest on this note or any
claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer or any officer or agent thereof or of
the University of Michigan, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor shall these obligations
become a lien on or be secured by any property, real personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan
or the Issuer. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, the
registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.


140




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Notes are issued, the funds from
which and the conditions under which this note is payable, the general covenants and provisions
pursuant to which this note is issued, the rights of the holders of Notes, and the terms and conditions under which this note and the series of Notes of which this is one, or any part thereof, shall
be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the above described Resolution. A
certified copy of the Resolution is on file at the Office of the Treasurer of the University.
The Notes shall not be subject to redemption prior to maturity.
Any Note may be exchanged for Notes of other authorized denominations or transferred by
the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the Note to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, together with a duly executed written
instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Note is surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the
Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or cause to be executed, and
the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Note or Notes, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rate and maturity. The Transfer Agent shall require the noteholder requesting the transfer or exchange to pay any tax or other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange.
This Note is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's Certificate
of Authentication on this Note has been duly executed by the authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIE          D AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Note,
have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this
Note to be signed for it and in its behalf by the facsimile signature of its Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer, all as of, 1993.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
By____                       ________
Its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Certificate of Authentication
This is to certify that the within Note is one of the Regents of the University of Michigan
Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993, described in the Resolution herein referred to.
Date of
Authentication:                               By__         __      _
Authorized Signatory


141




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


[FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto


the within Note of
the Regents of the University of Michigan
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
_________Attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the
within-named Corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:_
In the presence ofi


_______________________Signature(s) Guaranteed
Signatures must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution participating in a Securities
Transfer Association recognized signature guarantee program
Note: The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on
the face of this Note in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any
change whatever. When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or
administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity,
proof of his authority to act must accompany the Note.


142




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Section 306. Mutilated Notes. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1972, as amended ("Act 354"), if any Note shall become mutilated, the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, at the expense of the holder of the Note, shall without further action being required by the
Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified
above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Note of like tenor in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Note, upon surrender to the Transfer Agent of the mutilated Note and receipt by the Transfer Agent and the Issuer of indemnity satisfactory to them.
Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, if any Note issued under this Resolution shall be lost,
destroyed or stolen, evidence of the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer
Agent and, if this evidence is satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the Issuer and indemnity satisfactory to the Transfer Agent and the Issuer shall be given, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance, at the expense of
the owner, shall without further action being required by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall
thereupon authenticate and deliver, a new Note of like tenor and bearing the statement required
by Act 354, or any applicable Michigan law hereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution for
the Note so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Note shall have matured or shall be about to
mature, instead of issuing a substitute Note the Transfer Agent may pay the same without surrender thereof.
Section 307. Cancellation of Notes. All Notes, which have been retired by maturity, redemption or purchase shall be cancelled by the Transfer Agent and an appropriate certificate of
cancellation with respect thereto delivered to the Issuer. Unless otherwise required by applicable
law, regulation or rule as soon as practicable following the cancellation thereof, all cancelled
Notes shall be cremated and an appropriate certificate of cremation delivered to the Issuer by the
Transfer Agent.
Section 308. Resignation of Transfer Agent The Transfer Agent may resign by giving not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice to the Issuer, and the Issuer may remove
the Transfer Agent by giving not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice to the Transfer
Agent. The Issuer shall designate a successor Transfer Agent and shall mail notice of the appointment of the successor Transfer Agent to each registered owner of the Notes not less than
ten (10) days prior to the Note Payment Date. Upon the appointment of a successor Transfer
Agent, the predecessor Transfer Agent shall transfer all moneys and funds, the registration
books, and all other documents and instruments relating to the Notes held by it as Transfer
Agent to the successor Transfer Agent.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401. Establishment of Project Fund. There is hereby created and established
the Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account of the University designated by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the Project Fund (i) all proceeds from the sale of the Notes, except accrued and capitalized
interest to be deposited in the Note Fund pursuant to Section 501, and (ii) all investment earnings on investments of the Project Fund. All moneys in the Project Fund shall be used for the
purposes and disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 402. Establishment of Note Fund. There is hereby created and established
with the Transfer Agent the Note Fund. There shall be deposited in the Note Fund:
1.   Any accrued interest received at the time of delivery of the Notes, together with
the amount, if any, determined by an Authorized Officer to be appropriate as
capitalized interest on the Notes.
2.   The proceeds of indebtedness issued by the Michigan State Building Authority
paid to the Issuer and required to be deposited into the Note Fund pursuant to
Section 602.


143




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


3.   The proceeds of renewal notes or of bonds of the Issuer issued for the purpose of
refunding the Notes and required to be deposited in the Note Fund pursuant to
Section 602.
4.   All Legally Available Funds required to be paid into the Note Fund pursuant to
Section 603.
5.   All Investment Income.
6.   Any moneys from the Project Fund which are directed by the Issuer to be deposited therein.
All moneys in the Note Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article V.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501. Application of Note Proceeds Immediately upon the receipt thereof, the
proceeds of the sale of the Notes shall be apportioned among and deposited in the following funds
and accounts in the following manner:
1.   Any accrued interest received on sale of the Notes and any capitalized interest
shall be deposited in the Note Fund;
2.   The balance of the proceeds of the Notes shall be deposited in the
Project Fund.
Section 502. Use of and Disbursements from Project Fund. Moneys in the Project
Fund shall be used pursuant to the following purposes:
1.   Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing and other expenses
of the Issuer in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of
the Notes;
2.   Payments necessary to finance part of the cost of the acquisition, construction,
renovation, installation, furnishing and equipping of the Project or to reimburse the Issuer for general funds expended in connection with the foregoing.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall, as
directed by the Issuer, be promptly transferred to the Note Fund. In addition, upon maturity of
the Notes, or upon provision for payment of the Notes, the Issuer may direct the transfer of all or
a portion of the funds in the Project Fund to the Note Fund. The depository for the Project Fund
shall make disbursements from the Project Fund upon the order of the Issuer, and shall have no
duty or liability with respect to the manner or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the Issuer from the Project Fund or in fact are used or applied by the Issuer.
Section 503. Use of and Disbursements from Note Fund. On the Note Payment
Date, the Transfer Agent shall use moneys in the Note Fund to pay principal of and interest on
the Notes as the same are presented and surrendered. Any amount remaining in the Note Fund
after the Notes have been paid or provision made therefor under the Resolution shall be returned
to the Issuer.
Section 504. Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Note Fund, until required for
use, shall be invested by Transfer Agent in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal and
the interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of America; or obligations of Federal
Farm Credit Banks, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the
Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the Export-Import Bank of the United
States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Bank for Cooperatives, the Federal
Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association; or tax-exempt obligations rated A or better by Moody's Investors Service and Standard
and Poor's Corporation in the case of long term obligations, or in the highest category by each


144




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


such rating agency in the case of short-term obligations; or may be deposited in a bank or banks
(including the Transfer Agent) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances or in certificates of deposit; or may be invested in any fund or funds composed entirely
of any or all of the above described investment vehicles (provided that, with respect to tax-exempt
obligations in such funds, the obligations need not be rated A or better, but rather must be, or be
deemed to be by the Fund's sponsor or adviser, investment grade), all as shall be directed by the
Issuer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the funds in the Note Fund may be invested as directed
by the State Building Authority, or by the Issuer to the extent required to preserve the exclusion
from gross income of the interest on the Notes, or any bonds issued by the State Building
Authority or the Issuer.
Interest or profit earned on the above investments or deposits, when received shall be deposited in the Note Fund. Any loss on the above investments or deposits shall be charged to the
Note Fund.
Moneys held in the Project Fund may be invested in any investments legally available for
University funds. All earnings, gains or losses thereon shall be credited to the Project Fund.
Section 505. Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants that it shall take all actions
within its control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Notes from gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"), including but not limited to actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings, if required, and the
expenditure and investment of Note proceeds and moneys deemed to be Note proceeds.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT FOR THE NOTES
Section 601. Sources of Payment for the Notes. The Notes are not debts or general
obligations of the State of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Issuer, Jut are limited obligations of the Issuer payable only from the following:
1.   All moneys in the Note Fund, including Investment Income;
2.   The proceeds of indebtedness issued by the Michigan State Building Authority
paid to the Issuer and required to be deposited in the Note Fund pursuant to
Section 602;
3.   The proceeds of renewal notes or bonds issued by the Issuer for the purpose of
refunding the Notes and required to be deposited in the Note Fund pursuant to
Section 602;
4.   Legally Available Funds required to be deposited in the Note Fund pursuant to
Section 603; and
5.   All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
Section 602. Deposit of Proceeds of Debt. To the extent necessary to pay or provide
for the payment of principal and interest on the Notes as provided in Article VII, the Issuer shall
deposit into the Note Fund amounts paid to the Issuer by the Michigan State Building Authority
with respect to the Project and derived from the issuance of indebtedness of the State Building
Authority. In addition, the Issuer shall deposit into the Note Fund amounts necessary to pay or
so provide for the payment of the Notes derived from the issuance of renewal notes of the Issuer
or bonds issued by the Issuer for the purpose of refunding the Notes.
Section 603. Covenant to Use Legally Available Funds. To the extent that on the
Note Payment Date, the amounts on deposit in the Note Fund are insufficient to make the payment of all principal of and interest on the Notes, the Issuer covenants to transfer to the Transfer Agent from any Legally Available Funds the amount sufficient to make up such payment
deficiency and the Transfer Agent shall use the amount so transferred to make up such
deficiency.


145




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Section 604. Limitations of Obligations No recourse under any obligation, covenant,
stipulation or indenture contained in this Resolution or in any Note issued hereunder or caused
by the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had against the State of Michigan, or the Issuer or any member or officer of the Issuer or any officer of the University, nor
shall any such obligation ever be or become a charge against the State of Michigan, nor shall the
same become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Issuer, it being expressly understood and agreed that the Notes and the obligations
created hereunder are payable only from the sources of funds specified in Section 601, and that
no other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the State of Michigan, the Issuer,
or any member or officer of the Issuer or any officer of the University, or its successors; all other
liability, except as herein provided, being expressly waived.
ARTICLE VII
DEFEASANCE
If all the Notes shall have become due and payable in accordance with their terms or are to
be paid at their maturity or maturities and the whole amount of the principal and the interest so
due and payable upon all of the Notes then outstanding shall be paid or sufficient cash, or cash
and non-callable Government Obligations the principal of and the interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable, will provide sufficient moneys for such payment, shall be held
by the Transfer Agent in the Note Fund or by any other escrow agent in trust for the benefit of
the holders of the Notes, then and in that case the Resolution shall be defeased and terminated
and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void
and, on demand of the Issuer, any surplus in the Note Fund other than money held for the payment of the Notes shall be transferred to the Issuer; provided, that the applicable provisions of
this Resolution pertaining to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes, the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes, and the tax covenant contained in Section 505 shall be
continued in force until such have been fully paid.
Notes or portions of Notes for which cash or cash and Government Obligations (including
principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent in
trust for the holders of said Notes or portions of Notes sufficient to pay all principal and interest
through maturity shall no longer be outstanding hereunder, and the holders thereof shall have
no further rights hereunder or under the Notes except the right to receive payment from the cash
or cash and Government Obligations held in trust as specified above and the right to effect transfers or exchanges of Notes as described above.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent
as described above shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when due, of the Notes payable therewith.
ARTICLE VIII
FURTHER COVENANTS
The Issuer covenants and agrees with the holders of the Notes as follows:
(1)  The Issuer shall faithfully perform all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any Note executed and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of the Issuer
pertaining thereto.
(2)  The Issuer is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State
of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Notes, and to acquire
construct, renovate and equip the Project as contemplated by this Resolution; all action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and
the issuance, execution and delivery of any Notes has been or will be duly
and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Notes; and the Notes in
the hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited obligations of the Issuer according to their terms.


146




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


ARTICLE IX
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 901. Supplemental Resolutions Not ReGuiring Consent of Noteholders
The Issuer may without the consent of the Noteholders adopt resolutions supplemental to the
Resolution as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more
of the following purposes:
(a)   To add additional covenants and agreements of the Issuer for the
purpose of further securing the payment of the Notes;
(b)   To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the
Resolution;
(c)   To amend or subtract from or make substitutions for the Project.
Section 902. Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Noteholders. Exclusive of supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for which consent of Noteholders is
not required, the holders of not less than 51% in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes
outstanding shall have the right to consent to the adoption by the Issuer of such other supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the Issuer; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section shall permit, or be construed as
permitting, (i) an extension of the maturity of the principal of or the interest on any Note issued
hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount of any Note or the rate of interest thereon,
or (iii) a privilege or priority of any Note or Notes over any other Note or Notes, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes required for consent to such supplemental or
amendatory resolution.
If the Issuer shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the
Noteholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution to be
mailed to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the Issuer
kept by the Transfer Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on file at the Office of the
Treasurer of the University for inspection by all Noteholders. If within six months following the
publication of such notice, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the
Notes outstanding at the time of the mailing of such notice have consented in writing to the
adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in accordance therewith.
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1001. Authorization of Official Statement, Preliminary Official Statement, and Official Notice of Sale. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
or the Associate Vice President for Finance, or either of them are hereby authorized to cause to
be prepared and circulated a Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Notes, to cause
to be prepared and published an Official Notice of Sale, and to cause to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer an Official Statement substantially in the form of the previously prepared Preliminary Official Statement, relating to the Notes. The distribution and use
of the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws, in connection with the
sale of the Notes, is hereby ratified and confirmed, and the distribution and use of the Official
Statement in accordance with applicable laws by the successful bidder, in connection with the
marketing of the Notes, is hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1002. Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution
shall constitute a contract between the Issuer and Noteholders to the equal and ratable benefit
and protection of each Noteholder, and after delivery of the Notes, no change, variation, or alteration of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance with its terms.


147




November Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Section 1003. Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by the Resolution
shall be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the Noteholder(s) under the law.
Section 1004. Other Documentation, The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University, the Secretary of the University, the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University, and any other
appropriate officers or representatives of the Issuer or the University, and each of them, are
authorized to perform all acts and deeds and execute and deliver all instruments and documents
for and on behalf of the Issuer required by this Resolution, or necessary, expedient and proper in
connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes, and the acquisition, construction,
renovation and equipping of the Project all as contemplated hereby.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Notes, all actions permitted or required by the Issuer
may be made or undertaken by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance, or any other duly authorized officer of the Issuer or the University. All determination of Note terms required to be made by the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance shall be made by him within the
ranges or other limitations set forth herein.
Section 1005. Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the
Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for
any reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1006. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and
shall not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or
effect.
Section 1007. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the
Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1008. Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption.


148




DECEMBER MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 16, 1993
The Regents met at 1:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room and heard a presentation by Mr. Theodore Spencer, director of undergraduate admissions, on activities of the undergraduate admissions office. Present were President Duderstadt
and Regents Brown, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Waters. Vice President and
Secretary Kennedy was also present, as were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice
President Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, and
Chancellor Renick. Regents Baker, Deitch, and Varner and Chancellor Jones
were absent; Provost Wong attended in place of Chancellor Jones.
The presentation concluded at 3:15 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents assembled at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Brown, McFee,
McGowan, and Power. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Whitaker,
Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison,
Hartford, and Neal were also present. Regents Baker, Deitch, Varner, and
Waters and Chancellors Jones and Renick were absent.
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated: Christopher Martin, student, on the tenure status of Professor Richard
Campbell; and Brian Winkler, member, and Robert Darden, head coach, men's
gymnastics team, on the decision to drop the men's gymnastics team.
Friday, December 17, 1993
The Regents met at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and
Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Whitaker, Executive
Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and
Neal were also present, as was Chancellor Renick. Chancellor Jones was absent;
Provost Wong attended in his place.
Resolution in Honor of 1994 Rhodes Scholar
President Duderstadt called on Regent Varner, who read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Leah N.
Niederstadt on her selection as a 1994 Rhodes Scholar.


149




December Meeting, 1993


One of 32 students nationwide chosen to receive a Rhodes scholarship, Leah is the first woman from the University of Michigan and
the first UM student since 1980 to be selected for this most prestigious honor.
Leah Niederstadt has taken full advantage of the wealth of opportunities available at the University, and the University in turn
has been enriched by her presence. With a dual major in political
science and Afroamerican and African studies, she has not only received numerous academic honors, but has been captain of the
women's rugby team, held leadership positions in her sorority, and
served as a volunteer for student, Greek, and community groups, all
while completely financing her education through employment in
various positions both within the University and elsewhere. Described by her professors as "a student of extraordinary talent and
ability," Leah plans to use her Rhodes scholarship to pursue a
master's degree in social anthropology at Oxford University.
It is with great pride that the Regents commend this outstanding young woman of Michigan for her remarkable achievement in
being named a 1994 Rhodes Scholar.
Ms. Niederstadt came forward to receive her resolution. There followed a
round of applause, and the motion was adopted by acclamation. Ms. Niederstadt
expressed her gratitude at the educational opportunities that the University had
provided her.
Resolution in Honor of 1994 British Marshall Scholar
President Duderstadt called on Regent Power, a former Marshall Scholar
from the University of Michigan, who read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Michael K.
Weiss on his selection as a 1994 British Marshall Scholar.
A native of West Bloomfield, Michigan, Michael is an honors
student with a triple major in math, physics, and English and a
nearly perfect grade point average. He is the University's first
Marshall Scholar since 1987.
Described by one of his professors as "one of the most brilliant
students I have ever encountered in my 27-year career at Michigan,"
Michael Weiss is a multifaceted young man who also excels in creative writing and participates in community theater. He plans to use
his British Marshall scholarship to study mathematics at Cambridge
University in England.
The Regents take great pride in adding Michael K. Weiss to the
roster of the University of Michigan's "leaders and best."
The motion was approved by acclamation; Ms. Niederstadt accepted the
resolution on behalf of Mr. Weiss, who was not present.


150




December Meeting, 1993


CESF Report, Ann Arbor Campus
President Duderstadt called on Professor John Tropman, chair of the
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty, to present the CESF Report.
Professor Tropman expressed appreciation for the 1993 salary program and
urged that consideration be given to expanding and enhancing it. He noted that
SACUA had asked CESF to transmit its request for a 10 percent salary program
in 1994-95, but pointed out that CESF was not recommending a specific percentage increase. Professor Tropman observed that among faculty, there is a perception that there is a greater difference between academic and administrative
compensation than is actually the case.
Professor Tropman also noted that CESF is working with the administration to explore innovative compensation practices. CESF is also evaluating the
experimental program of one-time salary increases that are not added to base
pay. In addition, CESF has also been involved in the process of developing a flexible benefits program.
President Duderstadt stated that the advice and counsel of CESF has been
very important in the development of a flexible benefits program. He then gave a
presentation on the current faculty and executive officer compensation strategy,
the details of which are on file in the Office of the Secretary of the University.
Professor Tropman commented on various aspects of the compensation policy and gave suggestions as to how compensation issues might be further
explored.
Regents Power and Deitch commented about the usefulness of such discussions about compensation policy and about the importance of having a policy in
place and publicly articulated.
Campus Safety
Regent McGowan observed that a woman had been raped in a University
parking lot outside of a residence hall at the end of November. She noted that the
president had written a letter to the community and had asked Vice Presidents
Hartford and Womack to report on what could be done to minimize the chances
of this occurring again.
President Duderstadt stated that he was horrified by the incident and called
on Vice President Hartford to comment on the current situation. Vice President
Hartford reported on the activities of staff from the Department of Public Safety,
the Dean of Students' Office, the Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Center (SAPAC), the University Planner's Office, and other areas with regard to
dealing with this situation. She reported that three action steps were being taken
immediately: an assessment of lighting, both on campus and in nearby areas;
education about safety for both men and women to be provided by a variety of
methods, including self-defense classes; and an assessment of safety issues associated with the medical campus. The Department of Public Safety was also going
to increase the number of staff on the streets and in the parking structures.


151




December Meeting, 1993


Following further discussion, the president noted that he is personally
involved in studying these issues, and that they would receive fill attention at
the highest levels of the administration.
Annual Report on Research for 1993
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Neal to present the annual
report on research. Vice President Neal stated that the four goals of the Office of
the Vice President for Research (OVPR) are to 1) promote research, scholarship,
and creative activities; 2) help set national research priorities; 3) assure that
conduct of research is consistent with the University's mission and principles;
and 4) facilitate the transfer of knowledge. He then reviewed progress towards
those goals by reporting that the University ranks number one in total research
and development expenditures among the top twenty public universities and
colleges and number two in expenditures among all universities and colleges,
with total research expenditures of $373.7 million in FY 1993. Federal research
expenditures have increased over the past ten years, while non-federal and
university expenditures have remained flat.
Vice President Neal then reviewed the factors influencing both the national
and local environments for research support and the challenges these factors
pose for the future of the U.S. research university. The OVPR is currently focusing its efforts on developing policies and an agenda regarding research integrity
issues; assessing internal research funding needs; advancing new research initiatives; developing a long-range research plan for the campus; influencing the
national research agenda; developing the local campus infrastructure; and promoting economic development.
Vice President Neal concluded by reviewing several specific initiatives being
undertaken by his office in the area of academic integrity and internal funding
issues. Following some discussion, the Regents turned to consideration of the
regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved the minutes for the November 1993 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations and Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection
of current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of voluntary support.
Charles M. Allmand, Ann Arbor
216 shares of LG&E Energy Corporation common stock for unrestricted support of
the School of Business Administration, for health services management and policy in
the School of Public Health, and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics......................8,586


152




December Meeting, 1993


American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Biophysics Research Division, the Institute of Gerontology, the
Medical School, and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts........166,407
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.............................................................................................................................37490
American Tinnitus Association, Portland, Oregon
for  research     in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................9,860
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the AMOCO Foundation Chemistry Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and    the   A rts...............................................................................................................................................................  14 000
Herbert & Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Fund in the Medical School.................................................. 10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........8,167
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for the computer-aided engineering network in the College of Engineering...................................40,000
Atlanta Eye Surgery Center, P.C., Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hays Scholarship in the Medical School........................................................................ 25,000
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
2,850 shares of various corporate common stocks and cash gift of $3,046 for the
Ann E. Avery Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the
Charles W. Edmunds Fund for graduate fellowships in pharmacology............................................199,996
Association Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, Geneva, Switzerland
for the College of Engineering............................................................................................................................................125,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship..........................................................................................35,442
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for burn    research and education in the Medical School....................................................................................20,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering....................................................................6,400
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
500 shares of Paramount Communications common stock for the Dr. George H.
Boyce Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School....................40,219
John D. Boyles, Grand Rapids
500 shares of John Nuveen Company common stock and cash gift of $2,000 for
the John Duvall Boyles Endowment in the Law School and for the Sports Service
B uilding   in   the  D epartm  ent   of  A thletics.......................................................................................................................16,625
Mary N. Bradbury, Wilmette, Illinois
for the School of Business Administration................................................................................................................. 16,000
David H. Brandon Foundation, Plymouth
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics............................................................... 20,000
Bristol-Myers/Zimmer Orthopaedic Grant Program, Warsaw, Indiana
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................50,000
Paul B. Campbell, Cleveland, Ohio
100 shares of AMOCO Corporation common stock for unrestricted support of the
Schools of Business Administration and Law..............................................................................................................5,738
Campbell Soup Foundation, Camden, New Jersey
for the 1994 Summer Engineering Academy in the College of Engineering...................................50,000
Eleanor M. Carlson Estate
for  the  C ollege  of  E ngineering...............................................................................................................................................29,267
Chemical Bank, New York, New York
for  em  ployee    m atching     gifts.......................................................................................................................................................6,396
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Francisco, California
for Chevron scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering.......................................... 17,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering.............................................................. 15,500
Consulate of Italy, Detroit
for  the  U niversity     M usical  Society....................................................................................................................................... 7,937
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts................000.................................................................................................................................................................. 10,000
Anatole S. and Pamela D. Dekaben, Coupeville, Washington
for the Anatole S. and Pamela D. Dekaben Endowment in the College
of  E n g in eerin g................................................................................................................................................................................14 0,00 0


153




December Meeting, 1993


Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for fellowships in the Medical School.....................                                                  6.............6,250
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Center for Engineering Education and
Practice and for employee matching gifts................................................................................................................ 19,685
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Funds in the Schools of Business Administration and Law........... 10,000
Dobson-McOmber Agency, Inc., Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity    M usical  Society................................................................................................................................. 0,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering and the Macromolecular Research Center............11,000
Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for  research   in  the  M edical School......................................................................................................................  15,000
First of America Bank, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity    M usical Society........................................................................................................................... 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................................................................................... 5,000
Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for  research    in  the  M edical School.......................................................................................................4 0......................   40,500
Ralph W. Garlick, Grand Rapids
500 shares of Walt Disney Company common stock for unrestricted support of the
School of Business Administration and for the School of Social Work Building.......................... 19,938
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the General Dynamics Fellowship in the College of Engineering....................................................0,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts.....58,410
for   em ployee    m atc   l.   s  e................................................................................................................................................... 8 4 10
Carl A. Gerstacker, Midland
1,600 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock for the Rollin M. Gerstacker
Faculty Development Fund in the College of Engineering............................................................................92,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for program     support in the College of Engineering........................................................................................... 10,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering and for employee
m atch  in g   g ift s.....................................................................................................................................................................................29,2 10
Margo Halsted, Ann Arbor
for the Armbruster Fund in the School of Music.................................................................................................. 10,000
Lloyd A. and Marie H. Heneveld, Grand Rapids
3,904 shares of Herman Miller common stock for the Lloyd A. and Marie H.
Heneveld Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the
Department of Athletics and the College of Engineering.............................................................................115,900
Jack E. Hill, Jackson
400 shares of Comerica Corporation common stock for the Medical School.............................5,438
David Alan Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for thoracic surgery fellowships in the Medical School.................................................................................... 10,000
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research   in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................................................................................. 25,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health..........................382,655
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for research in the School of Business Administration.....................................................................................25,000
Suzanne R. Lehmann, New York, New York
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan....................................................................... 10,000
Judith C. Leondar Trust, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Ralph Bennett Endowment in the University Herbarium, College of
L iterature,  Science, and      the  A rts...........................................................................................................................................7,000
Julie H. Levy, Bloomfield Hills
for the Julie Levy Bridge Program           in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........7,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial in the Medical School........................................................................ 22,500
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  the   R obert  H. Lurie  F und.............................................................................................................................................. 500,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 13,750


154




December Meeting, 1993


Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham
1,750 shares of Wisconsin Public Service Coporation common stock; for the
Donald and Lucille Malloure Fund in the College of Engineering...........................................................62,125
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literataure, Science,
an d    the   A rts......................................................................................................................................................................27,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School.......................................................................................................................... 28,250
May Department Stores Company Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration and for the Class
of 1938 Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........20,000
James V. McConnell Estate
for the James V. McConnell Memorial Fund in Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....................................................................................................................................................................5,327
James A. McDivitt, Potomac, Maryland
for the Campaign for Michigan in the College of Engineering....................................................................10,000
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity   M  usical  Society....................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for research in the Reproductive Sciences Program............................................................................................30,000
Vincent J. Miller, Whiting, New Jersey
for the Vincent J. Miller Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Architecture and Urban Planning...................................................................................................25,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School................................................................ 20,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for student aid funds in the College of Engineering............................................................................................27,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.....................................................................................................25,600
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the Law             School................................................................................................................10,000
Ann Newman, Bloomfield Hills
1,400 shares of Arbor Drugs common stock for the William Davidson Professorship
in the School of Business Administration....................................................................................................................25,375
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................25,000
Pincus Family Fund, New York, New York
for thoracic surgery support in the Medical School in memory of Jacob Pincus......................... 10,000
Pryor Foundation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Pryor Foundation Fund in the School of Business Administration.........................................7,600
William Putich, Brecksville, Ohio
1,250 shares of Echo Bay Mines, Ltd. common stock for golf course restoration
and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..............................................................15,938
Mildred C. Rauner Trust, Orinda, California
for  the   A lu m ni  A ssociation.......................................................................................................................................................52,60 0
Ralph E. Reins, Bloomfield Hills
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering................................... 10,000
Gail Richardson, La Mesa, California
13,478 shares of the Franklin California Tax-Free Income Fund for the Sterns
C ollection    in   the   School  of  M usic.................................................................................................................................... 101,220
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for entrepreneurial dynamics research in the Institute for Social Research............................50,000
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
90 shares of CSX Corporation common stock for unrestricted support of the
School of    B usiness   A dm   inistration.......................................................................................................................................6,958
San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan....................................................................... 10,000
Nate S. and Ruth B. Shapero Foundation, Detroit
for special acquisitions in the Museum             of Art......................................................................................................... 14,500
Eloise H. Sheldon Estate
for the Eloise H. Sheldon Scholarship in the School of Nursing............................................................220,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Marching Band Uniform              Fund in the School of Music....................................................................20,000
Irene R. Shreve Estate
for gerontology support in the Medical School.........................................................................................................41,031
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work.................................................................................................................304,000


155




December Meeting, 1993


Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School............. 11,289
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D. Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art.....................................................0...........10,000
Goff Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
11,183 shares of various corporate common stock and cash gift of $115,188
for the Goff Smith Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of
the Goff Smith Fund in the College of Engineering, the Harriet S. Smith Fund
for Hill Auditorium Restoration, and student fellowships in the School of
Business Adm    inistration.............................................................................................................................  501,506
Southeastern Michigan Health Association, Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health..................9.........................9,324
Christopher J. Steffen, Greenwich, Connecticut
450 shares of Eastman Kodak common stock for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  A rts...............................................................................................................28,406
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School.........................................................8,581
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for academic  support in  the  College  of Engineering..........................................................................................25,804
Toray Industries, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering...................................................................  13,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics............................................................................... 12,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration......................................... 10,000
Vical, San Diego, California
for cardiovascular research in the Medical School................................................  50,000
Bob Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the Robert J. Vizas Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and    the   A rt s.....................................................................................................................................................................20,000
Robert J. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
12,270 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock for the Campaign for
M ichigan    in   the   College   of Engineering...................................................................................................................... 500,003
John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Helen S. and John Wagner Fund in English Language and Literature,
College of Literataure, Science, and the Arts and for the University Musical Society...............7,300
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Medical School and in the Division
of   K in esiology.....................................................................................................................................................................................78,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Fellowships and Student Aid Funds in
the Medical School, College of Pharmacy, and the Horace H. Rackham School
of  G radu ate   S tu dies....................................................................................................................................................................500,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education and in the
College  of Literature, Science, and  the  A rts.................................................................................................................6,730
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature,
S cience,  an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................6,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration......................................... 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
John W. Blackwell, Marco Island, Florida
a Victorian high back walnut side chair for the Crapo Room in the University of Michigan-Flint
library
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
120 volumes of slides and photographs including: William Hunt aerial photographs, Ajanta and
West Indian cave temples, Borobudur, Java, for the Department of History of Art


156




December Meeting, 1993


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Peggy Beach, Detroit
Edie Halstead, Lapeer
Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Sharon Newton, Southgate
Dory Sandon, Lake Park, Florida
Graham Smith, Ann Arbor
Mary Tamsen, Allen Park
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1994
Paul F. Hollenberg, Ph.D., Professor of Pharmacology, and Chair, Department of Pharmacology
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective December 17, 1993
Lawrence J. Marentette, M.D., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Kiumi Akingbehin, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, and
Acting Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn,
reappointed Acting ChairDepartment of Computer and Information Science,
UM-Dearborn, eight-month term
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Richard Edwards, Professor Emeritus of Far Eastern Art, reappointed to active status, winter
term
Samuel J. Eldersveld, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status,
winter term
Edie N. Goldenberg, Professor of Political and Public Policy, with tenure, and Dean, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Dean, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1994-June 30, 1999
Don P. Haefner, Professor Emeritus of Health Behavior and Health Education, reappointed to
active status, winter term
James A. McLean, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Jane A. Romatowski, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Education,
UM-Dearborn, three-year term, February 1, 1994


157




December Meeting, 1993


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Loretta J. Dauwe, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting
Chair, Department of Physics/Engineering, UM-Flint, six month term
Steven A Goldstein, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Assistant Dean for Research and
Graduate Studies, Medical School, also appointed Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, without tenure, College of Engineering, September 1, 1993
Richard Gull, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting
Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint six-month term
Philip J. Held, Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health, one-year term
Michael J. Imperiale, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, also
appointed Acting Chair, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, six-month term
Lawrence D. Kugler, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Interim
Chancellor, UM-Flint
Samuel J. Meisels, Professor of Education with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Education,
also appointed Interim Dean, School of Education, four-month term, February 1, 1994
LEAVE OF ABSENCE EXTENSION
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Martin K. Whyte, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, intergovernmental leave extended,
January 1-June 30, 1994
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective January 1, 1994
Anton A Reznicek, Acting Director of the Herbarium, six-month term
Mary Jo S. Sekelsky, Interim Dean of Student Services, UM-Flint
Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professorship in Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy. The Regents approved the establishment of the Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professorship in Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, effective December 17,
1993.
Donald Rt    Shepherd Chair in Conducting. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting, effective January
1, 1994.
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorship in Medicine. The Regents approved the establishment of two Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorships in Medicine, both effective January 1, 1994.
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival. Inc.. Board of Trustees
Lisa Baker, University representative, three-year term ending October 31, 1996, vice Erik
Fredricksen, term expired


158




December Meeting, 1993


Elsa K. Cole, reappointment, three-year term ending October 31, 1996
Jeffrey J. Colton, reappointment, three-year term ending October 31, 1996
Lester P. Monts, University representative, three-year term ending October 31, 1996, vice Phyllis
Wright, term expired
Ruth T. Whitaker, reappointment, three-year term ending October 31, 1996
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Jack E. Dixon, three-year term ending December 31,1996, vice Minor J. Coon, term expired
Albert I. Hermalin, reappointment, three-year term ending December 31,1996
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Education
Beverly A. Bancroft, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education and Public Administration,
January 1, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michael R. Hogan, MA, Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies
Gretchen E. Lopez, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Women's Studies
Terence J. McGinn, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Kathleen A Moore, BA, Lecturer II in Music, January 1, 1994
Haw-Yaw Shy, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Stephanie D. Teasley, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, January 1, 1994
Katarzyna A. Zechenter, MA, Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures
Medical School
Michael J. Giacalone, Jr., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Assistant Dean for Clinical
Affairs-External Relations, Medical School, November 8,1993
Lill M. Petruzzelli, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, December 1,1993
College of Pharmacy
Kiela M. Samuels, Pharmu.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, November 1, 1993
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
James M. Rowan, MA, Lecturer II in Psychology (reported as effective September 1,1993)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Barbara A Blodi, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, September 15,1993
Robert A Werner, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
also appointed Assistant Professor of Occupational Medicine, Department of
Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, September 1,1993


159




December Meeting, 1993


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Priscilla S. Rogers, Associate Professor of Business Communication, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Cindy A Schipani, Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
School of Education
Anne R. Gere, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of
English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
Cecil G. Miskel, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Dean, School of Education,
administrative leave, February 1-May 31, 1994
College of Engineering
Erdogan Gulari, Professor of Chemical Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Timothy L. Killeen, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
School of Information and Library Studies
Maurita Holland, Lecturer in Information and Library Studies, extended sick leave, November 8 -December 31, 1993
Law School
T. Alexander Aleinikoff, Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -December 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Andre M. Cooper, Assistant Professor of Linguistics, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31,
1994
Raymond Grew, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1994
Jane R. Heirich, Lecturer III in Music, Residential College, leave without salary, January 1-May
31, 1994
Michael J. Longo, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
1993
Robert R. Sharp, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1993
Medical School
Josephine P. Briggs, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology,
without tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1993
Trygve O. Gabrielsen, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1-31, 1993
Marie M. Lozon, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, leave without salary,
September 1-30, 1993
Jurgen B. Schnermann, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1993
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor of Planetary
Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1994
(previously reported as December 1, 1993-April 31, 1994)


160




December Meeting, 1993


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
E. Richard McPhee, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Ronald C. Stewart, Lecturer in Dentistry, August 31, 1993
College of Engineering
Ben F. Barton, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
College of Literature. Science. and the Arts
Lawrence S. Bartell, Philip J. Elving Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Kenneth G. Binmore, Professor of Economics, with tenure
Sarah Messer, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, April 30, 1993
Medical School
Mark B. Hazuka, Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, November 12, 1993
Theodore L. Roumell, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, October 25, 1993
Jeffrey M. Trent, Emanuel N. Maisel Professor of Oncology, Professor of Radiation Oncology,
with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, November 1, 1993
Joseph C. Yaroch, Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, September 21, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bernard W. Klein, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, and Professor of Public Administration, without tenure, School of Education
UM-Flint School of Management
Clark E. Chastain, Professor of Accounting, with tenure
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Nursing
Elisabeth A Pennington, Assistant Professor of Nursing, and Associate Dean for Graduate
Studies, School of Nursing, November 19, 1993 (previously reported as November 30, 199
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted the following retir
ment memoirs:
Lawrence S. Bartell, the Philip J. Elving Professor of Chemistry, w
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1993.
A native of Ann Arbor, Professor Bartell received his B.S. degree in 194
his M.S. degree in 1947, and his Ph.D. degree in 1952, all from the University
Michigan. He was a faculty member at Iowa State University from 1953-6
when he came to the University of Michigan as a professor of chemistry. He w<
named the Philip J. Elving Professor in 1987.
Among Professor Bartell's many honors are the University of MichigDistinguished Faculty Achievement Award (1981), the Michigan Association
Governing Boards Distinguished Faculty Award (1982), the National Scien,
Foundation Creativity Award (1982), and Michigan Scientist of the Year (198(
He has served as chair of the Division of Chemical Physics of the AmericE
Physical Society (1977-78) and on the editorial boards of the Journal of Chemic
Physics (1963-66), the Journal of Computational Chemistry (1979-90), ar
Chemical Physics Letters (1981-84).


161




December Meeting, 1993


Professor Bartell's research involves the use of electron diffraction to examine the structure of molecules in the gas and, more recently, the structure of matter in the condensed phases. He has published over 261 journal articles and 10
textbook chapters. His pioneering efforts have extended the precision of the electron diffraction technique and revealed many new areas in which to apply it. The
first photographs of single atoms and molecules were produced by Professor Bartell's ingenious holographic method, based on the combination of electron
diffraction and laser illumination. He has also made significant contributions
towards understanding the basic quantum mechanical paradoxes raised by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen.
Professor Bartell has been a leader in the field of molecular mechanics to
describe molecular structure and conformational changes. He has consistently
upheld the highest standards of scholarly performance and teaching excellence,
and has contributed broadly in many areas of both the Department of Chemistry
and the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physical chemist by naming
Lawrence S. Bartell the Philip J. Elving Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
Ben F. Barton, professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on December 31,
1993, after a career of 36 years on the faculty of the University of Michigan.
Professor Barton earned his B.S. degree in 1947, his M.S. degree in 1952,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1957, all in electrical engineering, and all from the University of Michigan.
From 1947-48, Professor Barton was employed as an engineer at the General Motors Proving Ground. He then worked for three years at MC Manufacturing Company, where he was involved in the research and development of
extremely high performance compressors for the United States Army Air Force.
Professor Barton joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering
as an assistant professor in 1957; he was promoted to associate professor in 1958
and professor in 1964. He served as the director of Cooley Laboratory from
1961-65.
In the Department of Electrical Engineering, Professor Barton was responsible for introducing several courses in circuits and electronics, with strong
design and laboratory components. In recent years, his research interest has
turned to the field of technical communications, where he and his wife,
Marthalee Barton, who is a lecturer in the college's technical communications
program, have been widely recognized for their joint work They have received
several awards, including an Outstanding Paper award from the Society for
Technical Communications in 1985 and Best Paper award from the National
Council of Teachers of English in 1988 and again in 1992.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished service by
naming Ben F. Barton professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.
Clark E. Chastain, professor of accounting in the School of Management
at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1993, after a most productive career as teacher and researcher.


162




December Meeting, 1993


A native of Arkansas, Professor Chastain received his B.S. degree in 1953
and his M.B.A degree in 1955, both from the University of Arkansas. He received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1958.
Professor Chastain served as an accountant at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission from 1958-59 and then as an operations analyst at The
John Hopkins Office of Research Administration in 1960. He was a research
associate and lecturer at the University of Michigan Ann Arbor campus from
1961-64 and then served as an assistant professor at UM-Dearborn from 1964-68.
Professor Chastain moved to the University of Michigan-Flint in 1968; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1973 and to professor in 1977.
On the Flint campus, Professor Chastain quickly became an important and
active member of the School of Management accounting faculty. He has received
two faculty awards for scholarly achievement (1981 and 1983), a manuscript
award from the National Association of Accountants (1984 and 1987), and was
named an Outstanding Educator of America in 1975. In addition to his teaching,
research, and honors, he has been involved with the student accounting fraternity, Beta Alpha Psi. Professor Chastain has been an avid researcher through the
years and continues to write and publish in many leading journals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service
by naming Clark E. Chastain professor emeritus of accounting.
Walter HL Clark, Jr., associate professor of English language and literature, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1993, after a productive career as a writer and teacher.
A native of Massachusetts, Professor Clark received his B.A degree from
Swarthmore College (1954) and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard University
(1965). He came to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1965
and was promoted to associate professor in 1970. Professor Clark received the
University's Distinguished Faculty Service Award in 1970 and the Amoco Outstanding Teaching Award in 1987. He served as director of freshman composition from 1973-76 and has been director of the Residential College freshman
seminar program since 1981. He has served on the Commission on Literature of
the National Council of Teachers of English and on various editorial boards and
was a Fulbright lecturer at the University of Graz in Australia in 1971-72.
Professor Clark has published numerous articles on education and on such
writers as Robert Frost and J. F. Powers and, more recently, on teaching environmental literature. His poetry has appeared widely in Harvard Magazine, The
New York Times, The Iowa Review, and The Michigan Quarterly Review, among
other places. A book of his poetry, View From Mount Paugus (1976), was nominated for the Lamont Award.
In the course of an outstanding teaching career at Michigan, Professor
Clark has taught courses ranging from introductory composition to problems in
critical theory. He has been particularly active in preparing students for teaching
English at the secondary level. In 1975, Professor Clark, with the help of a colleague, founded the New England Literature Program offered in New Hampshire during the spring half-term and devoted to reading New England authors
in the setting in which they wrote. The program continues in vigorous health
today and is regarded by many students who have participated in it as the


163




December Meeting, 1993


highlight of their undergraduate experiencee The New England Literature Program is recognized nationally as a model of environmentally based education
largely due to Professor Clark's dedicated and imaginative commitment to
nurturing and publicizing this innovative educational experiment.
The Regents now salute this distinguished writer and teacher by naming
Walter H. Clark, Jr., associate professor emeritus of English language and
literature.
Sylvia S. Hacker, associate professor of community health nursing in the
School of Nursing and associate professor of population planning and international health in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status
on December 31, 1993.
A native of New York City, Professor Hacker completed her B.A degree in
1946 at Brooklyn College, her M.S. degree in 1966 at the State University of New
York at Cortland, and her Ph.D. degree in 1977 at the University of Michigan.
Since joining the University of Michigan faculty in 1975, Professor Hacker
has become widely known within the University, the state, and the nation for her
expertise in the area of human sexuality and her skill in communicating this
expertise to others. She has published extensively, both in professional journals
and lay magazines, and her new book, What Teenagers REALLY Want to Know
About Sex, co-authored with her daughter, has just been published. She was
certified as a sex educator in 1988 by the American Association of Sex Educators,
Counselors, and Therapists.
Professor Hacker is well known and respected for her forthrightness and
ability to stimulate and manage constructive dialogue in the often controversial
area of human sexuality in secondary schools, colleges and universities, and
community organizations. She engages and challenges her audience, with humor,
to identify and examine their values and positions on sensitive social and political
issues and to continuously pursue credible evidence in forming their positions.
Professor Hacker has shown remarkable personal and professional courage in
the face of provocation and conflict and has made effective use of the mass media
in doing so. She hosts a community access call-in television program, "Sexy
Minutes;" has been interviewed on numerous radio and television shows, including "The Phil Donahue Show"; and has been cited in many national publications.
She also serves as a consultant to the teen magazine, Sassy.
Professor Hacker has received awards from the Michigan Department of
Public Health, Mensa, and lesbian and gay male civil rights groups. At the University, she received the Mae Edna Doyle Teacher of the Year Award from the
School of Nursing in May 1993. Evaluations of her teaching skills indicate that
she challenges people's values, stimulates their thinking, and helps them develop,
articulate, and defend their positions in the area of human sexuality.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Sylvia S. Hacker
associate professor emerita of community health nursing and associate professor
emerita of population planning and international health.
Regent Deitch noted the retirement of Professor Bernard Klein, and
observed that "he is a man of uncommon good sense, good humor, grace, and a
distinguished Michigan citizen".


164




December Meeting, 1993


Bernard W. Klein, professor of political science in the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters and professor of public administration in the School of
Education at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1993.
A native of New York City, Professor Klein earned his AB. degree in 1950
from Brooklyn College, his AM. degree in 1954 from the University of Missouri,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1965 from Michigan State University. He served as
assistant director of workmen's compensation in the state of Michigan from
1956-61, and from 1961-67 was supervisor of the Lansing office of the University
of Michigan's Institute of Public Administration. Professor Klein served as
controller of the city of Detroit from 1967-70. In 1970, he was appointed visiting
professor in the University of Michigan's School of Social Work. He then went to
Wayne County Community College, serving as vice president for administration
from 1970-71. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in
1971 as professor of political science. During this time, Professor Klein also
served as president of the Detroit Charter Revision Commission from 1970-73.
He was appointed acting chancellor of the Dearborn campus from 1979-80 and
then took a leave of absence in 1980-81 to serve as vice president for labor, urban
and metropolitan studies, and then interim provost at Wayne State University.
He returned to the UM-Dearborn to resume his professorship in 1981; he
received the additional appointment of professor of public administration in 1992
and led the campus again as interim chancellor of the Dearborn campus in
1992-93.
As a teacher-scholar, Professor Klein introduced into the curriculum such
new areas of study as urban politics, public administration, and public sector
labor relations. Professor Klein resisted becoming a full-time administrator in order to return to his first love, teaching. He received the UM-Dearborn's Distinguished Teaching Award, tenured category, in 1990 and the Distinguished
Faculty Award- from the Michigan Association of Governing Boards of State
Universities in 1991. Professor Klein authored and co-authored a number of
articles in the area of public administration and state and local government and
acted as confident and advisor to governors, mayors, and legislators of both
political parties. He is currently in Romania serving as a Fulbright Lecturer in
political science at the Technical University of Iassi.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and administrator for his
dedicated service by naming Bernard W. Klein professor emeritus of political
science and professor emeritus of public administration.
E. Richard McPhee, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1993.
A native of Detroit, Dr. McPhee studied electrical engineering at the Chrysler Institute of Engineering and attended the University of Detroit from 1959-64.
He earned his D.D.S. degree in 1966 and his M.S. degree in restorative dentistry
in 1969, both at the University of Michigan. Dr. McPhee joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor of dentistry in 1969; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1974 and professor in 1978. He held joint
appointments in the Departments of Prosthodontics and Biomaterials.


165




December Meeting, 1993


Dr. McPhee is a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon and Phi Kappa Phi
honor societies and received the Kingery Prosthodontics Honor Award and a
Quest for Technology Award. He has served on a number of school and University committees and has also been a member of some 20 graduate student thesis
committees. Dr. McPhee's professional affiliations include membership and
offices in the American Dental Association, the American Academy of Crown and
Bridge Prosthodontics, the American and the International Associations for
Dental Research, and the Inter-Society Color Council. He has been on the
executive council of the American Association of Dental Schools and served on
the executive committee and as president of the Francis B. Vedder Society of
Crown and Bridge.
Known for his dedication to teaching, Dr. McPhee was chosen by secondyear dental students as Instructor of the Year in both 1984 and 1985. His
research has focused on porcelain, ceramo-metal, and ceramic restorations and
techniques, and the results of his studies have been published as journal articles,
manuals, and chapters in texts. Dr. McPhee has also developed nearly 20 television teaching tapes, primarily in restorative materials and procedures.
In support of his promotion to professor, Dr. McPhee was repeatedly characterized as a "devoted worker" and a "dedicated teacher," who endeavored to
"improve teaching and advance his profession through research." Another of his
colleagues pointed out that his background in engineering added a new dimension in "helping solve departmental problems, research, and dentistry in
general."
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming E. Richard McPhee professor emeritus of dentistry.
Ilene T. Olken, professor of Italian, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1993, following 33 years as a teacher and scholar of Italian,
French, and comparative literature in the Department of Romance Languages
and Literatures.
Professor Olken completed four degrees at the University of Michigan,
including an AB. degree in 1950, an AM. degree in English and education in
1952, a second AM. degree in French in 1955, and a Ph.D. degree in French and
Italian in 1959. She joined the faculty in 1960 as an instructor in French; she was
promoted to assistant professor of French and Italian in 1962, associate professor
of Italian in 1966, and professor of Italian in 1986.
Professor Olken served on many departmental and University committees,
including the Rackham Executive Board, and was the associate director of the
Program in Comparative Literature from 1972-78. Her publications include the
book, With Pleated Eye and Garnet Wing: Symmetries of Italo Calvino (1984),
two textbooks, several editions of Italian works for use in the classroom, and a
number of articles on French and Italian literature.
She will be remembered by her many former students for her affectionate
concern for their welfare, her insistence that they measure themselves against
the highest intellectual standards, and above all for the passion with which she
defended the idea of a humanistically conceived, rather than a technically or
theoretically oriented mode of criticism.


166




December Meeting, 1993


The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar and recognize her many years of devoted service to the University by naming Ilene T.
Olken professor emerita of Italian.
Memorials. Provost Whitaker submitted the following memorial
statement:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the
death on November 26, 1993, of Marshall H. Becker, professor of health
behavior and health education in the School of Public Health and professor of
health behavior, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, in the
Medical School.
Professor Becker was born in New York City in 1940. He received his B.S.
degree from City University of New York in 1962. He received his M.S. degree in
public health in 1964 and his Ph.D. degree in medical sociology in 1968, both
from the University of Michigan. He began his teaching and research career at
The John Hopkins University in 1969 and joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1977.
Professor Becker's research and writing about compliance with medical regimens and factors influencing preventive and disease management actions placed
him in the forefront of health behavior research. He authored or co-authored 120
articles on these subjects. He was editor of the Health Education Quarterly from
1979-86 and served on the editorial boards of six other scholarly journals. He
chaired the Department of Health Behavior and Health Education from 1983-87
and served as associate dean for academic affairs in the School of Public Health
from 1987-93. Professor Becker was a consummate teacher whose courses consistently attracted hundreds of registrants from throughout the campus. He was
frequently honored for his accomplishments: he received the Distinguished Fellow Award from the Society for Public Health Education in 1981, the Mayhew
Derryberry Award from the Public Health Education Section of the American
Public Health Association in 1982, and the Distinguished Faculty Achievement
Award from the University of Michigan in 1988. In 1987, he was elected to the
Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences.
Notwithstanding these achievements, Marshall Becker will be remembered
as well for his extraordinary wit and humanity. His sense of humor was brilliant,
his concern for students unmatched, and his pursuit of academic excellence relentless. In addition to these gifts, the astonishing courage and steadfastness he
showed in the face of intractable illness was an inspiration to all who knew him.
As we mourn his death, our condolences go to his wife Felicia, son David, and
daughter Ruth.
Regent Brown read the following memorial statement in honor of Regent
Emeritus Eugene Power:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with great sadness
the death of their friend and colleague, Eugene B. Power.
An ingenious businessman, "Gene" Power pioneered the application of
microfilm to the storage and reproduction of scholarly materials. The company


167




December Meeting, 1993


he founded, University Microfilms, became so successful it merged with the
Xerox Corporation, and both have since prospered.
Gene Power's contributions to education and the arts were legendary. He
was both a Regent of the University and president of the National Association of
College Governing Boards. He served on the board of the National Foundation
for the Arts and was the driving force behind the now firmly established Ann
Arbor Summer Festival. His philanthropies, too numerous to recount in their
entirety, included the enabling grant for the University's Power Center for the
Performing Arts and Power Exchange Scholarships, and the Power Island
Nature Conservancy in his old home town of Traverse City. He was also a man of
boundless energy, as all will attest who ventured into the water polo competition
that was a part of his weekly regimen.
Gene Power's legacy extends broadly and deeply:  to the industry he
founded, to the university he loved, to the community he served, and to the
family he shared. The Regents extend to that family, and especially to Gene's son
Philip, who so ably serves as a Regent himself, their heartfelt sympathy and condolences at this most difficult loss.
President Duderstadt called for a moment of silence in memory of Regent
Emeritus Power. He then noted the death of Charles Moore, the architect who
designed the North Campus Engineering Center.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regents Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the remainder of the consent agenda as indicated above.
Estate of Helen F. Weber-Real Estate
The Regents were informed of the sale of a parcel of land in Republic Township, Marquette County (the N /2 of the NE 1/4 and the SW 1/4 of the NE /4,
Section 18, T47N, R30W), at a price of $22,500.
International Equity Investments
Regent Deitch moved, Regent Power seconded, and all seven Regents
present unanimously approved an increase in the allowable range for
international equity investments from 0 - 15 percent to 0 25 percent of the University Endowment Fund and participation in The Common Fund International
Equity Fund and The Common Fund Global Equity Fund. Because Norman
Herbert, the university treasurer, is both a University employee and a trustee of
The Common Fund, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and The Common
Fund.
2.  The duration of the contract with The Common Fund will be open-ended. The
partnership will invest University Endowment Fund assets, and Norman
Herbert will attend meetings of the boards and related committees.


168




December Meeting, 1993


3.  Norman Herbert has no pecuniary interest in these contracts. The management fee for the International Equity Fund will be 1.00 percent of the first $5
million under management, 0.90 percent of the next $5 million, 0.85 percent of
the next $15 million, 0.80 percent of the next $25 million, and 0.75 percent of
the excess per annum. The management fee for the Global Equity Fund will be
0.85 percent of the first $5 million, 0.80 percent of the next $5 million, 0.70
percent of the next $15 million, 0.60 percent of the next $25 million, and 0.55
percent of the excess per annum.
Real Estate Investment
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment
Fund to Apartment Opportunity Fund II, pending the general counsel's review
of the partnership agreement for legal acceptability.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project, Phase II; UMDearborn Campus Support Services Facility
Chancellor Renick reported that state funding had been approved for Phase
II of the University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project.
The project will be divided into two components: the Center for Engineering
Education and Practice/Professional and Continuing Education component, and
the School of Management/Lecture Halls component. Mr. Fred Mayer, university
planner, described the proposed site and site plan, with the aid of maps and schematic drawings.
Mr. Mayer then described a proposed facility to house campus support services, to be finded from UM-Dearborn ftmds.
Following Mr. Mayer's presentation, Regent Waters moved approval of the
proposed sites for both the Center for Engineering Education Practice/Professional and Continuing Education segment and the School of Management/Lecture Halls segment of the UM-Dearborn's General Campus Renovation
Project Phase II. He also moved approval of the UM-Dearborn Campus Support
Services project and site and appointment of the firm of Ghafari Associates, Inc.,
as architect. Regent Power seconded the motions, and they were approved
unanimously.
Angell/Haven Hall Connector
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Douglas Hanna, university
architect, to describe the proposed design for this project. Mr. Hanna described
the proposed site plan and design, with the aid of maps, schematic drawings, and
an architectural model. Following his presentation, several Regents expressed a
number of concerns about various aspects of the proposed design, including issues of safety, concern that the "tunnel" portion of the space would attract graffiti, and the shape and footprint of the building.
Following extensive discussion, it was decided to have the design group reconsider the proposed design, taking into account the concerns brought forward
during the discussion. President Duderstadt suggested that the designers present


169




December Meeting, 1993


several other conceptual design options of how to use the space, with arguments
for and against each option.
University of Michigan Visitors Center Project and Student Activities
Building Improvements
Executive Vice President Womack described this proposal to construct an
addition to the Student Activities Building (SAB) to serve as a visitors center,
and to make certain renovations and improvements to the Student Activities
Building in conjunction with this project. The new facility will be used as a
central point of arrival for visitors to the campus. On a motion by Regent Brown,
seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents unanimously approved the Visitors
Center project and site, the SAB window replacement project, and the appointment of Fry Associates, Inc., as the architect.
Diag Renovation
Mr. Fred Mayer gave a presentation describing a plan for the renovation of
the Diag that has been prepared by the University's planning consultants, Johnson Johnson & Roy/inc. The project would be completed in phases as sites and
funding become available. Following some discussion, Regent Deitch moved
approval of the design concept for the renovation of the Central Diag and
authorization for its implementation on a phased basis as sites and funding
become available. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Medical Science II
Phases II-V remodeling for the Department of Microbiology and Immunology; 2)
North Ingalls Building courtyard infill for the Department of Surgery; 3) UMDearborn Student Services Center renovations; 4) Replacement of utility service
lines to the 300 North Ingalls Building; 5) Renovation of the domestic hot water
system at the UM Hospitals Taubman Center; and 6) Renovation of the UM
Hospitals Human Resources Employment Office.
Issuance of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds or Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds in        amount not to
exceed $170,000,000
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution, authorizing the executive vice
president and chief financial officer to increase the size of the Hospital Revenue
Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds or Medical Service Plan Refunding
Bonds from $165,000,000 to $170,000,000 and provide the option to use derivatives in the proposed financing.


170




December Meeting, 1993


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, on September 24, 1993, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Issuer") adopted its Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Hospital Revenue
Bonds and Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds, and Providing for Other Matters Relating
Thereto (the "Resolution"); and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable to amend the Resolution as provided herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The second "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to include within the
definition and description of the "Projects", the remodeling, renovation and equipping of space in
Medical Science II for the Department of Microbiology and Immunology and the acquisition,
construction, furnishing and equipping of an addition to the North Ingalls Building.
2. The eighth "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the
amount in the seventh line from "One Hundred Sixty Five Million Dollars ($165,000,000)" to
"One Hundred Seventy Million Dollars ($170,000,000)".
3. Section 1 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in the ninth line
of the first paragraph thereof from "$165,000,000" to "$170,000,000", and further, by adding at
the end thereof the following paragraph:
Any or all of the Hospital Bonds or the hospital revenue bonds authorized by
the May 7 Resolution may be made subject to tender for purchase at the option of the
holder thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase any such bonds made subject
to tender options may be made payable from available cash reserves of the University, subject to limitation to the amount of certain assets of the Hospital, or may be
made payable from a letter of credit, line of credit or other liquidity device ("the
Hospital Liquidity Device"), all as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer and
provided for in the Series Indenture. Any reimbursement obligation for draws under
the Hospital Liquidity Device shall be a limited and not general obligation of the
Issuer, payable from Hospital Gross Revenues and may be secured by a pledge of
Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues. Either Authorized Officer is authorized to execute
and deliver, for and on behalf of the Issuer, any agreements or instruments necessary
to obtain, and provide for repayments under, any Hospital Liquidity Device deemed
by such officer to be required for the purposes of this Resolution. Purchase obligations shall not be considered as "principal and interest requirements" hereunder or
under the May 7 Resolution.
4. Section 2 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amounts in the seventh,
ninth and thirty-fifth lines from "$125,000,000", "$165,000,000", and "$9,000,000", respectively,
to "$130,000,000", "$170,000,000", and "$9,500,000", respectively. Section 2 of the Resolution is
firther amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
Any or all of the MSP Bonds may be made subject to tender for purchase at the
option of the holder thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase any such MSP
Bonds made subject to tender options may be made payable from available cash
reserves of the University, subject to limitation to the amount of certain assets of the
Medical Service Plan or the Medical School, or may be made payable from a letter of
credit, line of credit or other liquidity device (the "MSP Liquidity Device"), all as shall
be determined by an Authorized Officer and provided for in the MSP Indenture. Any
reimbursement obligation for draws under the MSP Liquidity Device shall be a limited and not general obligation of the Issuer payable from Medical Service Plan
Revenues and may be secured by a pledge of Medical Service Plan Revenues. Either
Authorized Officer is authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of the
Issuer, any agreements or instruments necessary to obtain, and provide for


171




December Meeting, 1993


repayments under, any MSP Liquidity Device deemed by such officer to be required
for the purposes of this Resolution. Purchase obligations shall not be considered as
"principal and interest requirements" hereunder.
5. As amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed. All resolutions or
parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are
hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Medox ElectroOptics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
Medox Electro-Optics, Inc., involving a project to investigate better methods of
optical switching in laser systems. Because the project director, Gerard Mourou,
is both an employee of the University and a shareholder in Medox Electro-Optics,
Inc., this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The   following   information    is  provided   in  compliance    with   statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
2.   The agreement will provide support for one graduate student research assistant
for twelve months and indirect cost at 56 percent. Dr. Mourou will directly
advise and assist the graduate student but will receive no salary from this
contract. The agreement will be consistent with standard University research
policies.
3.   In addition to Dr. Mourou's stock ownership he receives compensation as a
consultant to the company, reimbursement for attendance at meetings and
participates in profit-sharing. He will not be compensated outside of his University salary for services related specifically to this project.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Science and Environmental Education - NORTH (SEE-NORTH)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
Science and Environmental Education - NORTH (SEE-NORTH) to conduct a
joint research project. Because the project director, Mary J. Whitmore, is both a
University of Michigan employee and executive director of SEE-NORTH, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Science and Environmental Education -NORTH (SEE-NORTH).
2.   The agreement will be a standard Michigan subcontract for one year in the
amount of $34,726. The prime award from the Michigan Department of Education is for one year in the amount of $60,259. The proposed subcontract will
detail the scope of work and the budget.
3.   Dr. Whitmore will not be compensated outside of her University salary for this
project. However, as executive director, she will receive compensation from
SEE-NORTH.


172




December Meeting, 1993


Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Skills, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan
and Skills, Inc. ("Skills"). Because Carl Rinne, the developer of the technology for
which Skills intends to develop products and services (the "Technology"), is both
a shareholder in Skills and a University employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Skills, a corporation owned in part by Professor Carl Rinne.
2.   Terms of the contract include: a non-exclusive license of unlimited duration;
consideration to the University consisting of the payment of royalties, including
modest minimum annual requirements, on products incorporating the Technology, and a share of sublicensing revenues received by Skills. Skills will pay the
University royalties at a rate of 8 percent for products sold during the first five
years and 4 percent for products sold during the second five years (considered
paid up at the end of ten years). Skills will also pay the University 25 percent of
any sublicensing revenues Skills receives. Minimum royalties shall be $100 in
1994, $200 in 1995, and $300 each year thereafter. The University retains ownership of all Technology. The University retains the right to use the Technology
for research, teaching, and other educationally-related purposes and may
license it to other parties (since this is a non-exclusive license to Sldlls). Skills
shall use reasonable efforts to effectively pursue the commercial development
and exploitation of the Technology covered by the proposed license agreement.
There is no use of facilities or services of the University included in the contract
and no assignment of University employees for fulfillment of the contract.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Professor Rinne in the contract arises from his
ownership of shares of Skdlls. This equity interest will be in lieu of participation
in the sharing of royalties received by the University, in accordance with
standard University policy.
Standard Assignment Agreement with Kemp B. Cease and Cortland J.
Lohff
This item was withdrawn from the table.
Resolution in Honor of Clinton B. Jones
In honor of the retirement of Chancellor Clinton B. Jones, Regent McFee
offered the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan are pleased to salute
and commend Clinton B. Jones as he concludes his term as chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint.
Clinton Jones came to Flint in 1984 following his service as vice
chancellor for academic affairs at the University of HoustonDowntown. He has been the fourth and longest-serving chief


173




December Meeting, 1993


executive officer of this thriving young campus, his term having extended for more than nine years. Those nine years have been marked
by unprecedented growth and development, not only in the campus'
physical facilities, but in its programs and enrollment as well. The
physical plant has more than doubled in size, and with the completion of the new library facility it will provide the Flint community
with a total campus environment of unmatched beauty and
functionality.
But most important of all has been Clinton Jones' ability to
build bridges to the community, so that the campus has become not
only a focal point of community pride, but a powerful resource for
individual growth and learning that has inspired and challenged
young and old alike to become all that they can be. Throughout his
tenure, Chancellor Jones has been cited repeatedly by community
organizations for his dedication to the city of Flint. Fortunately, that
dedicated effort will continue, as he will continue to serve in his
faculty capacity as professor of political science.
In recognition of his exemplary service, and with deep appreciation and warm best wishes, the Regents now name Clinton B. Jones
chancellor emeritus of the University of Michigan-Flint.
The motion was adopted by acclamation.
There being no firther business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on January 20 and 21, 1994. Regents' expenses for the
month of November 1993 totalled $1,659.71.
chard L tnned 4Secrry


174




JANUARY MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 20, 1994
The Regents met at 1:15 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union
for a panel discussion on the Michigan economy, the state budget, and the outlook for state support for higher education in the coming year. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Whitaker,
Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison,
Hartford, and Neal were also present, as were Interim         Chancellor Kugler and
Chancellor Renick. Regent Baker was absent. Participants in the discussion included Professors Ned Gramlich and Paul Courant; Mr. Gary Olson, director of
the Senate Fiscal Agency; and Senators John Schwarz and Lana Pollack.
The discussion concluded at 3:35 p.m., and after a short break, the Regents
reassembled for their regular business meeting.
Regular Business Meeting
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order at 3:45 p.m. and welcomed
Lawrence Kugler, interim chancellor of UM-Flint, to his first Regents' Meeting.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Consideration of the minutes for the December 1993 meeting was
delayed until the next meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and non-competitive
purchases over $2,000. Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of voluntary support.
ARCO Chemical Company, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering and
for the International Faculty Development Fund in the School of Business
A dm in istratio n.................................................................................................................................................25 000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources
and  E nvironm ent...........................................................................................................................50,000
Aetna Foundation Inc., Hartford, Connecticut
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts.........5                                  8.................................................................................................................................. 5,880
Aetna Life and Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A dm inistration.............................................................................................................................................................................. 15,000
Robert G. Aldrich, Ann Arbor
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry.............................................................20,813
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for unrestricted  support of the Department of Athletics............................................................................ 10,000


175




January Meeting, 1994


Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................................................................................... 24,858
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts College of Pharmacy, Institute of Gerontology, and the Biophysics
Research Division..........................184.. 1......68.,35
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School............................................................................................................................ 35,738
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the AMOCO Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering....................................... 21,000
Anjoy Research, Inc., Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration...................................................... 75,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...........................................................................................................   25,000
Anonymous Donor
for a Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School................................................................. 20,000
Anonymous Donor
for a Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School.........................................................................10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School......................................................................................................................12,250
Automobile Club of Michigan, Dearborn
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................10,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy and other support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for support in the Colleges of Architecture
and Urban Planning and En...eerg...                                                                        37,500
and  U rban   Planning   and  E ngineering............................................................................................................................37,500
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for  research    in   the  College  of  Pharm acy.........................................................................................................................6,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Robert N. and Marion E. Beebe Football Scholarship in the Department of
A th letics................................................................................................................................................................................................ 10 0,0 0 0
Bell Atlantic, Arlington, Virginia
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A dm  in istration.................................................................................................................................................................................. 5,00 0
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom        Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the Law School................. 25,000
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Gallery Campaign.............................................................25,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
108 shares of Phillip Morris and 109 shares of General Motors common stock for
support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School.....................................................................12,08
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for the Bruce P. Bickner Endowed Scholarship in the Law School......................................................... 40,000
Bixby Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................7,500
Jim Bradley Pontiac-Cadillac-GMC, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,250
Martin R. Browning, Delafield, Wisconsin
900 shares of Cadence Design System common stock for unrestricted support of
th e   L aw   S ch ool...............................................................................................................................................................................10,9 13
Milton F. Bryant, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Lectureship in Vascular Diseases in the Medical School............................................................... 75,000
Bugas Fund, Dearborn
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 20,000
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
for  the  H ill Auditorium    Restoration  Fund................................................................................................................38,709
California Technology International, Sunnyvale, California
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................10,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................. 7,325
Jean W. Campbell Trust, Ann Arbor
for  the  Center  for  the  Education  of W  om en................................................................................................................5,100
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000


176




January Meeting, 1994


Willard F. Chase Estate
for the Campaign for Michigan in the College of Engineering................................................................. 10,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for  the  U niversity   M usical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Management Education Campaign and for the Washington Intern Program
at  the  U niversity  of M ichigan-D  earborn....................................................................................................................... 17,000
Citizens Insurance Company of America, Howell
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration................. 20,000
Coca-Cola, U.S.A. Division of the Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Ergonomics Affiliates Program         in the College of Engineering.................................................20,000
Lucille Beebe Coles, South Bend, Indiana
3,319 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock for the George W.
Morley Professorship in the Medical School...................................................................................................... 102,474
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
three shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock for research in the Medical School.....51,525
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for  the  H ospital Youth  M  entoring   Program.............................................................................................................. 20,000
Edwin Comstock Charitable Trust, Holland
for  the  U ndergraduate    Student   Aid  Fund...................................................................................................................28,157
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for  a  U niversity  of M ichigan  Visitor's  Center..........................................................................................................30,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................20,900
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........20,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for  support  in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................................................................................... 15,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics....................................................................................... 6,000
Malcolm L. Denise, Grosse Pointe
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Denise Philosophy
Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................6,219
Walt Disney Company, Burbank, California
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women, the Clements Library, the Michigan
League, the Museum of Art, the University Musical Society, and the College of
Literature, Science, and       the  A rts........................................................................................................................................ 22,700
Robert J. Donia, Fort Worth, Texas
for Russian and East European Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.....................................................................................................................................................................................  19,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Dow Chemical Grant and for undergraduate scholarships in the College of
Engineering........................................................................................................00...............................,500
Dow Chemical U.S.A. Midland Division, Midland
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................................................................................. 27,000
Anne and Jim Duderstadt, Ann Arbor
for the James and Anne Duderstadt Endowment in the Campaign for Michigan...................... 10,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering....................................... 6,078
LeRoy A. Engelhardt, Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin
200 shares of Consolidated Papers, Inc., common stock and cash gift of $1,000 for the
School of Business Administration, the Department of Athletics, and the University
L ibrary..............................................................................................................................................................................................  10,125
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................8,800
Tyrone C. Fahner, Evanston, Illinois
for the Humanities Challenge Grant in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School...................................20,000
Sonja and Conrad Fischer Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for the F. Conrad Fischer Fund in the School of Business Administration........................................ 9,000


177




January Meeting, 1994


Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, Detroit
for the University of Michigan Hospital........................................................................25,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School..................................................6,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane-Power House, the University of MichiganDearborn..........................................................................20000
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane-Power House, the University of MichiganD earb o rn........................................................................................................................................................................  20 000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work, the Institute of Public Policy Studies,
and the Institute for Social Research................................................................... 359,357
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Human Resources Partnership Program              in the School of Business
Administration and for the solar car project and other research in the College of
E ngineering.................................................................................................................................................................................. 75,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Consortium     for Graduate Study in Management in the School of Business
Administration and for the Chancellor's Discretionary Fund at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn......................................................................................22,000
Joe C. Foster, Jr., Lansing
180 shares of Pacific Telesis Group common stock for unrestricted support of the
L aw   S ch ool............................10                                                              463.............................................................................................................................................................10,463
Samuel & Jean Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Program        in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............10,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for  research    in   the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................38,012
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Edward J. Frey Professorship of Banking and Finance in the School of
B u siness   A d m in istration.....................................................................................................................................................1,200,000
GHS Corporation, Battle Creek
for  support  in   the  School of M usic..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Carolyn A. Gatward Trust, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics........................................................................ 100,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the General Motors Corporation Fund in the College of Engineering.........................................32,696
General Motors Research Laboratories, Warren
for  research    in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................................................................................. 35,000
Byron & Dorothy Gerson Fund, Franklin
for the William    Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration..................20,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Campaign for Michigan in the College of Engineering............................................................. 1,500,000
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for  the  Cancer  Center   in  the  M edical School.............................................................................................................. 5,000
James B. Griffin, Bethesda, Maryland
for the James B. Griffin Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................................................................75,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Passagrille, Florida
for tennis   facilities  in  the  Departm ent  of Athletics................................................................................................5,640
Lucy E. W. Hamilton, Grosse Pointe
for the Medical School, Bentley Historical Library, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology,
Museum     of Art, and the University Musical Society............................................................................................ 5,039
Frances M. Harland Estate
for  the  U ndergraduate    Student   Aid  Fund......................................................................................................................5,714
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 94,30 1
James & Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School..........................................100,000
Emil A. Holz Trust
for the Emil and Jeannette Holz Scholarship in the School of Music................................................... 92,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit
for the Medical School, Services for Students with Disabilities, Shady Trails
Building Fund, and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship...................................................................50,399
Ralph M. Hulett, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School...........................................................................8,494


178




January Meeting, 1994


International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Leadership, Vision, and Change Project and for the Human Resources
Partnership Program            in the School of Business Administration..................................20,339
JSB Trusts, Santa Barbara, California
for the James S. Bower Endowed Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and     the   A rts..................................................................................................................................................000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry.................................. 10,000
Thomas H. Jeffs II, Grosse Pointe Farms
400 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration.............................................12,100
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health and the Institute for Social Research................ 175,073
K-I Chemical Research Institute Company, Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan
for QSAR research in the College of Pharmacy.........................................................................  15,000
Cliff Keen Athletics, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration and other support in the Department of Athletics..............................50,000
W. K Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
of G  raduate    Studies......................................................................................................................................99 667
George W. Keros, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering..........................................................................................................  12,763
Charles L. Kettler Estate
for the Charles L. Kettler Fellowship in the College of Engineering.................................................. 527,794
Charles C. Killin, Naples, Florida
200 shares of Wal-Mart Stores common stock for support in the Law School,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Department of Athletics...............................5,913
Oscar W. Kloha Estate
for  student   aid  in   the  M edical School........................................................................................................................... 230,700
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Knight Specialty Fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G radu  ate    S tu dies.......................................................................................................................................................................... 165,000
C. Douglas Kranwinkle, Los Angeles, California
for the William      W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship in the Law                 School.....................................15,528
Francis B. Kulp, Jr., Ann Arbor
80 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Law                          School................................................... 5,145
Edwin A. and Alma Lakin, Reading, Pennsylvania
3,100 shares of Berk-Tek, Inc., common stock for the Orthopedic Surgery
Research Laboratory in the Medical School...............................................................................................................99,014
Daisy Harder LaVictoire Trust
for    the   School  of   N ursing........................................................................................................................................................ 100,000
Judith C. Leondar Trust, Kingston, New Jersey
for the Ralph E. Bennett Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts............................................................................................................................................................................................7,0 0 0
Libralter Plastics, Inc., Walled Lake
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................20,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.......................................................................................................................................8,750
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m in istratio n...................................................................................................................................................................................15,0 00
Warren C. Lindeman, Coldwater
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................20,500
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and      the Arts................000...............................................................................................................................................   18000
Elizabeth Lucas Estate
40,699 shares of various corporate securities for the Elizabeth Lucas Fund in the
M  edical  C enter...............79                                                                                   937............................................................................................................................................................79 1,937
Dorothy S. Lundahl Trust, Moline, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................................................................................... 10,000
Fred W. Lyons, Jr., Mission Hills, Kansas
29,090 shares of Marion Merrell Dow common stock for the Fred W. Lyons, Jr.,
Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy....................................................................................................................... 607,254
MCI Communications Corporation, Washington, D.C.
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A dm   in istration........................15                                                                          000........................................................................................................................................................15 000


179




January Meeting, 1994


Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Hills
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................25,000
R. Gordon Mathews, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.............................................................30,000
Constance B. Mathias Estate
for the Thomas R. and Constance B. Mathias Memorial Fund in the College of
Engineering................................................................................................................................ 68
C. Blake McDowell, Akron, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law              School..............................................................................................................8,500
McGraw Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Max McGraw Professorship of Corporate Environmental Management in
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment..............300,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Parchment
for support in the Medical School............1........................1,010,941
Meister Family Trust, North Hampton, New Hampshire
for the Susan Blanch Meister Endowment in the School of Nursing.............................................. 20,000
Mellor Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
for the Mellor Family Endowment in the College of Engineering...........................................................40,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry.................................................... 10,000
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering and for employee
m  a tch in g   g ift s.....................................................................................................................................................................................5 8,19 4
Michigan Mutual Insurance Company, Detroit
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration....................7,500
Michigan Theater Foundation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................................................6,4 43
Mintz Family Foundation, Mansfield, Ohio
for the John A. Mintz Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business
A d m  in istration..................................................................................................................................................................................25,00 0
Jack Moore Irrevocable Trust
for the Marjorie W. and Jack Moore Scholarship in the Medical School.......................................... 200,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for  research      in   the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................46,828
National Organization for Hearing Research, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School............................................ 20,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research      in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
James E. Neely Estate
for  the    Jam es  E. N eely    F und..................................................................................................................................................44,500
Henry H. Newlin, Tecumseh
for the Henry and Nancy Newlin Women's Basketball Scholarship in the
D epartm    ent     of  A thletics.............................................................................................................................................................10,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m  in istration...................................................................................................................................................................................15,0 00
Order of AHEPA, Flint Chapter 141, Flint
for the Hippocratic Statue Project, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................7,500
William N. Osterman, Rancho Mirage, California
500 shares of Southern Company and 110 shares of Nipsco Company common
stocks for the C. and W. Osterman Common Room in the Humanities Institute,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................................................................25,409
Stuart B. Padnos, Holland
for the Medical Center Gifts Fund.................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of Business
A dm   in istration.................................84..................................................................................................................................................5,584
Henry B. Pearsall, Bellwood, Illinois
1,000 shares of Newell Company common stock for the Law                           School.................................................... 41,938
Marlin H. Pemberton, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..............................................................10,000
Donald E. & Jo Anne Petersen Foundation, Birmingham
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts............................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0


180




January Meeting, 1994


C. Eric Peterson, Orlando, Florida
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School........................................................................ 8,000
Michael & Eleanor Pinkert Foundation, McLean, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and the
Campaign for Michigan..............................................................................................................................................................10,00
M. Harry Piper, Flint
for the Wanda L. and M. Harry Piper Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint.........................................................................................................................5,031
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..........................................................                              7,500
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy.............................................................................45,000
Polish National Alliance, Chicago, Illinois
for a Polish Mini-Course and the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................................................,000
Potiker Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Center for the Education of Women..................................................................................... 10,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics............................................................. 10,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................................................................................ 10,000
Ward L. Quaal, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................20,000
John P. Quigley, Costa Mesa, California
for unrestricted support of the Law              School................................................................................................................ 10,000
Leonard Rand, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Educational Fund in the College of Literature,
S cience,   an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................7,500
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for the School of Social Work Building........................................................................................................................... 10,000
Barbara Richardson, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Barbara Trytten Richardson Graduate Student Aid Fund and the Barbara
and Dean Richardson Exhibition Fund in the School of Art........................................................................ 50,000
John 0. Robertson, Jr., Clayton, Georgia
for  the  R uth    Lobell  Scholarship...........................................................................................................................................30,000
Rockwell International Corporation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Aerospace Engineering Gift Fund and the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund
in the College of Engineering.............................................................................................................................................. 100,000
Peter J. Rosewig, Hobe Sound, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics........................................................................... 10,000
Jack Roth, Malibu, California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................................................... 48,000
Salwill Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................................................................................... 10,966
James F. and Betty H. Sams, Chevy Chase, Maryland
33,250 shares of DASI, Inc., common stock for the Campaign for Michigan in the
L a w    S ch ool.............................................................................................................................................................................................9 9,75 0
Sandoz Pharma AG, East Hanover, New Jersey
for the Sandoz Fund for Gerontological Research in the School of Dentistry...............................20,000
William W. Saulson, Southfield
for the William       Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
6,000 shares of various corporate common stocks and cash gift of $30,000 for the
Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting in the School of Music and for the Golf
Hole Endowment Fund and Tennis Facilities in the Department of Athletics.......................... 274,613
Thomas D. Sidwell Estate
for  the    C ollege  of  E ngineering...............................................................................................................................................10,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Friends of University Hospital Fund and for the University Musical Society................5,600
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the School of Business Administration.....................................................................................................................9,405
Rollin M. Smith Trust B
for  the    R ollin   M. Sm ith   F und................................................................................................................................................... 6,087
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Solovy Judaica Book Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........10,000


181




January Meeting, 1994


Star Lincoln-Mercury-Merkur, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................ 20,000
Daniel D. Stepnewski, Richland, Washington
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................................................................................................................ 31
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Humanities Institute Challenge Grant Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..................................................................................................4.... 400,000
Ralph P. Stevens, Coldwater
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................................................................................7,250
Joshua J. Stone, Bingham Farms
for the Communicative Disorders Clinic................,..................................................................................... 20,000
Stephen A. Stone, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
for the Humanities Institute Challenge Grant Fund, College of Literature, Science,
an d   the  A rts.....................................................................................................................................................  15 00 0
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
for the Victor L. Streeter Fellowship in the College of Engineering...............................................325
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A dm  in istratio  n.................................................................................................................................................15 000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School and for the Growth Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................................................................................................. 8,000
Tax Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Business Administration.....................................................................................40,000
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration....................................................... 10,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for the Physics Faculty and Alumni Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rt s.................................................................................................................................................................................................  25 0
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Margaret Towsley Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women,
the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
S ch ool  of  M u sic...............................................................................................................................................................................355 000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering....................................................................................................................8,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics...................................................................................5,500
Triplex Pharmaceutical Corporation, The Woodlands, Texas
for research in the School of Dentistry.............................................................................................................................5,515
Frances S. Turner, Hickory Corners
250 shares of Kellogg Company common stock for scholarships in the Department
o f   A thletics............................................................................................................................................................................................. 14,9 5 3
United States Steel Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for  em  ployee     m atching     gifts.......................................................................................................................................................7,800
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group
for Alumnae Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association and for student
financial aid in the Center for the Education of Women................................................................................. 21,700
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group
for Alumnae Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association.......................................................................6,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Upjohn Company Scholarship in the School of Public Health and for vascular
research      in   the   M edical  School..............................................................................................................................................22,500
Robert J. Utzinger Estate
for the School of Public Health Enrichment Fund...............................................................................................25,000
Kenneth E. Vance Estate
for support in the School of Information and Library Studies................................................................... 15,000
Lawrence Van Vlack, Ann Arbor
600 shares of FPL Group Corporation common stock for the Frances E. Van
Vlack Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the College
of Engineering..........................................................................................................................................................................23,025
David L. VerLee, Holland
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................................................................................ 10,007
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing........................................... 18,500


182




January Meeting, 1994


Bruce Jay Wasserstein, New York, New York
for the Morris Wasserstein Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts...........................................................................................................................000
Celia 0. and Everett T. Weart Estates
for the Celia Olney and Everett T. Weart Fund...................................................... 64,775
Kenneth Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
350 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for research in the
M edical School....................................................................................................................2 394
Gilbert and Ruth Whitaker, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert Whitaker Doctoral Fellowship and other support
in the School of Business Administration, the Schools of Art, Music, and
Graduate Studies, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the Friends of the Library, Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Museum
of Art, the Bentley Historical Library, Center for the Education of Women,
Humanities Institute, the University Musical Society, and the Hill Auditorium
Restoration  Fund........................................................................................................................  14,750
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Public Health.................................97,198
Alfred J. Wiederkehr, Zurich, Switzerland
for unrestricted  support of the  Law  School...................................................................................................... 10,000
Arthur L. Williams, Amelia, Florida
for the Lectureship in Vascular Diseases in the Medical School....................................... 30,000
James B. and Jane S. Wolf Philanthropic Fund of the
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland, Ohio, for the Student Financial
Aid Fund.....10000.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 10000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics........................................................... 30,000
Audrey L. Wright, Grand Rapids
300 shares of Paramount Communications common stock for the College of
L iterature,  Science, and   the  A rts....................................................................................................................................... 23,625
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for  the  S. K. Yee  Scholarship  in  the  Law   School.................................................................................................... 50,000
Zatkoff Seals & Packings, Farmington
for  scholarships  in  the  Departm ent of Athletics..................................................................................................... 20,000
Stanley Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for unrestricted  support of the  Law   School................................................................................................................ 50,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Anatole S. and Pamela D. Dekaban, Coupeville, Washington
real estate described as follows: 15.56 vacant acres, known as Biz Point Road, Anacortes,
Skagit County, Washington for the Dr. Anatole S. and Pamela D. Dekaben Fund in the College
of Engineering
Dataware Systems, Pontiac
surplus electronics components for the University of Michigan-Flint Department of Physics
and Engineering Science
Financial Insurance Services, Canton, Ohio
a used IBM Model 5150 computer system and printer for the Division of Kinesiology
Rodney J. Grambeau, Jr., Petoskey
a sixteen-foot Hobie Cat and trailer for Camp Michigania
Edmond van Hees, Ann Arbor
airphoto mosaic maps and geological compilation overlays of Michigan, Minnesota, and
Wisconsin for the Department of Geological Sciences
A. Joseph Hoski, Grosse Pointe Farms
a 1965 Pearson Ensign with sails and rigging for Camp Michigania
John K Maniha and Family, Reston, Virginia
120 individual volumes of books, serials, ore manuscripts given in memory of Ayer Brinser and
Joan Waldo Brinser for the Clements Library
Jim and Janet Partyka, Bloomfield
a Quickie wheelchair and Damaco power pack for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation/Physical Therapy
Jerry Sheaffer, Findlay, Ohio
a 1976 Seventeen Square Meter sailboat with wood cradle, sails, and rigging for Camp
Michigania
Richard A. Smith, Atlanta, Georgia
ten books on neurology and neurosurgery for the Department of Surgery


183




January Meeting, 1994


John Adams Thierry, Hill, New Hampshire
nineteen pieces of Southeast Asian sculpture for the Museum of Art and 659 books and 41 periodical titles pertaining to Southeast Asian Art for the University Library
Michael Zinman, Ardsley, New York
The American Bible: original leaves from 38 rare and historical bibles for the Clements
Library


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to
lowing donors:
Ace Hanses Hardware, Dearborn Heights
Robin Barlow, Ann Arbor
Theodore C. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
Charles C. Brown, Ann Arbor
Johannes Jude Buiteweg, Rochester Hills
John R. Chamberlin, Ann Arbor
Michael D. Cohen, Ann Arbor
Thomas F. Crandell, Chelsea
John C. Dann, Dexter
Alan V. Deardorff, Ann Arbor
Jap Doek, Ann Arbor
Michael G. Dworkin, Southfield
J. Scott Fleming, Ann Arbor
Richard L. Hall, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang Hoppe, Ann Arbor
Kay Houghton, Adrian
Miles Kimball, Ann Arbor
Jan Kmenta, Ann Arbor
Peter Kresak, Bratislava, Slovak Republic
Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason, Ann Arbor


$999 in value were received from the folScott F. Madden, Ann Arbor
Lawrence B. Mohr, Ann Arbor
Ilene T. Olken, Ann Arbor
Richard C. Porter, Ann Arbor
Roden Leather Company, Inc., Royal Oak
Marilyn M. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
Matthew D. Shapiro, Ann Arbor
Joel B. Slemrod, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
James D. Stuck, Grand Blanc
Leslie Woodcock Tentler, Ann Arbor
William J. Thomson, Ann Arbor
Hal R. Varian, Ann Arbor
Janet A. Weiss, Ann Arbor
Thomas E. Weisskopf, Ann Arbor
Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
Mrs. Edward G. Williams, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania
Clarence Wolf, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Sharon A. Wysocki, Ann Arbor


Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1994
Ada S. Hinshaw, Ph.D., Professor of Nursing, and Dean, School of Nursing, five-year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Leslie R. Bassett, Albert A. Stanley Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Music
(Composition), reappointed to active status, winter term
Eugene E. Dekker, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Ludwig Koenen, Herbert C. Youtie Professor of Papyrology, with tenure, and Chair, Department
of Classical Studies, reappointed Chair, Department of Classical Studies, six-month term,
July 1, 1994
Richard L. Malvin, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed to active status, one-year term


184




January Meeting, 1994


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Stanley Berent, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, Department of Neurology, Medical School, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, School of Public Health, three-year term,
February 1, 1994
Ctirad Uher, from Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Research and
Facilities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor of Physics, with tenure,
and Chair, Department of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year
term, September 1, 1994
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Valire C. Copeland, Assistant Professor of Social Work, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1994-May 1, 1995
Ramesh C. Jain, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, leave without salary
extended, January 1-December 31, 1994
Crispin J. Wright, James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, research leave
extended, January 1-May 31, 1994
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the date indicated
Jackie R. McClain, J.D., Executive Director of Human Resources and Affirmative Action,
three-year term, February 15, 1994
Jean and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in Reading and
Literacy. The Regents approved the establishment of the Jean and Charles R.
Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in Reading and Literacy, effective January 1, 1994.
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Paul E. Sweeney, Ph.D., Lecturer in Operations Management, July 1, 1993
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
David T. Burkam, BA, Lecturer II in Quantitative Reasoning
David S. Crystal, M.S.W., Lecturer II in Sociology
Ann C. Lin, MA, Assistant Professor of Political Science, September 1, 1994
Daniel J. Lyons, M.FA, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Pamela T. Motoike, A.B., Lecturer II in Psychology
Margaret A. Murphy, MA, Lecturer II in Sociology


185




January Meeting, 1994


Marcy P. Osgood, Ph.D., Lecturer III in Biology
Kathleen L. Quigley, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology
Terence M. Tompkins, M.S., Lecturer I in Biology
Margaret E. Weigers, BA, Lecturer II in Sociology
Lise M. Youngblade, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Medical School
Narayan Baliga, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, December 1, 1993
Margaret F. Everett, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
December 1, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Donald F. Rossin, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Operations Management
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993
Medical School
Scott J. Hollister, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of Engineering
Louis J. Soslowsky, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of Engineering
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Heidi C. Crow, Lecturer in Dentistry, leave without salary, October 4-24, 1993
Joseph D. Dennison, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1994
College of Engineering
Robert B. Keller, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement
furlough, January 1, 1994-December 31, 1995
Steven W. Shaw, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, leave without salary, January 1-December 31, 1994
Medini R. Singh, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, leave without
salary, January 1-December 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Max A Heirich, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, extended sick leave, October 11 -December 31, 1993
Medical School
Benedick A Fraass, Associate Professor of Radiation Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 10-July 9, 1994
Fred J. Karsch, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -February 28, 1994
School of Nursing
David L. Kahn, Assistant Professor of Nursing, leave without salary, January 1e
December 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Jane A Romatowski, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1994


186




January Meeting, 1994


UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
John G. Cherng, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1993
Paul K. Trojan, Professor of Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Management
K. H. Padmanabhan, Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-April 30,1994
UAMFlint
Clinton B. Jones, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Chancellor Emeritus,
administrative leave, January 1-December 31, 1994
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kenneth J. Dewoskin, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994 (previously reported as duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1993,
and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994)
Alien Moy, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1994 (previously reported as leave without salary)
Medical School
Roger G. Faix, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave March 1-August 31, 1994 (previously reported as sabbatical leave,
January 1-October 30, 1994)
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Neil 0. Leighton, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1995 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1994)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Robert E. Beyer, Professor of Biology, with tenure
Daniel M. Goldberg, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Victor V. Pambuccian, Lecturer II in Mathematics
Medical School
Eugene E. Dekker, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Michael E. Graney, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
December 17, 1993
Neigatha E. Graney, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
December 17, 1993
Christopher E. Griffiths, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, November 30, 1993
Catherine G. Jackson, Lecturer in Radiology
David G. Ostrow, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, November 30, 1993
Institute of Public Policy Studies
Douglas D. Ross, Lecturer in Public Policy, December 31, 1992
School of Social Work
Edwin J. Thomas, Fedele F. Fauri Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


187




January Meeting, 1994


UM-Dearborn School of Management
Sang-Ln Han, Assistant Professor of Marketing, August 11, 1993
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted the following retirement memoirs:
Jerome M. Clubb, professor of history in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, retired from active faculty status on January 15, 1994.
A native of Washington, Professor Clubb received his B.A, M.A, and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Washington in 1955, 1957, and 1963, respectively.
He was a faculty member at Bowling Green State University from 1961-66. He
joined the Center for Political Studies as a research associate in 1966 and was
promoted to program director in 1970 and research scientist in 1973. He was
named lecturer in history in 1968 and was promoted to associate professor in
1971 and professor in 1973. Professor Clubb also served as executive director of
the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) from
1975-91.
Professor Clubb was a pioneer in introducing quantitative techniques of
analysis to history. Through his extensive research and publications, he demonstrated that quantitative data adds precision to historical interpretations and often yields findings that are contrary to conventional wisdom. He showed that
partisan realignment followed rather than preceded critical elections in American
history, and that political elites played a crucial role in initiating realignments by
leading, rather than responding to, shifts in voter attitudes. His championing of
quantitative techniques of analysis has had an important impact on historical
studies.
As executive director of the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, Professor Clubb shaped the social sciences globally. He expanded
the disciplinary scope of ICPSR, adding history, sociology, and social work as full
partners with political science, the consortium's founding discipline. He greatly
expanded the services that ICPSR provides to support research. During his tenure as executive director, the consortium's membership greatly increased, and its
budget grew from $1.1 million to more than $3.6 million.
Professor Clubb served on numerous national and international social science advisory boards and was a founder and president of the Social Science History Association. In 1992, he was honored by being appointed to the University's
Senior Research Scientist Lectureship.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Jerome M. Clubb
professor emeritus of history and research scientist emeritus.
Eugene E. Dekker, professor of biological chemistry in the Medical
School, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1993, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Indiana, Professor Dekker received his AB. degree from Calvin
College in 1949 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 1951 and 1954, respectively,
from the University of Illinois. From 1954-56, he was an instructor in the
Department of Biological Chemistry at the University of Louisville Medical


188




January Meeting, 1994


School Professor Dekker came to the University of Michigan in 1956 as an
instructor of biological chemistry. He was promoted to assistant professor in
1958, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1970.
Over the years, Professor Dekker has been an invaluable faculty member in
the Department of Biological Chemistry. An excellent teacher, he served as
director of several departmental courses and in 1978 was awarded the Amoco
Good Teaching Award. From 1975-88, Professor Dekker served as assistant, then
associate chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry. He also provided valuable leadership as acting chair of the department in both 1978 and 1985.
Professor Dekker has had thirty-three consecutive years of research support
by the National Institutes of Health for mammalian and bacterial studies on the
chemistry, metabolism, and enzymology of amino acids, the characterization of
new   enzymes,   and   establishing  enzyme  structure/function/regulation
interrelations. He also received ten years of support from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture and five years from the National Science Foundation for studies on
nitrogen assimilation by, unusual amino acid metabolism in, and characterization of novel enzymes from plants. Professor Dekker was also awarded three
separate National Institutes of Health special research fellowships for sabbatical
leaves.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Eugene E. Dekker professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
Edwin J. Thomas, Fedele F. Fauri Professor of Social Work in the School
of Social Work and professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1993, after 40
years of service to the University of Michigan.
A native of Flint, Professor Thomas obtained his A.B. and M.S.W. degrees in
1951 and 1953, respectively, from Wayne University, and his Ph.D. degree in social psychology from the University of Michigan in 1956. After serving as a research assistant at the Research Center for Group Dynamics from 1953-56, he
joined the faculty in 1956 as assistant professor of social work in the School of
Social Work and assistant professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. Professor Thomas was promoted to associate professor in
both disciplines in 1959 and to professor in 1963 and was named the Fedele F.
Fauri Professor of Social Work in 1986.
Professor Thomas is recognized as a leading scholar in the areas of behavior
modification and intervention research, with particular emphasis on role theory
and group behavior. His recent research has focused on unilateral therapy with
the spouses and families of alcohol abusers. He has published an impressive body
of articles and books, many of which have been translated into foreign languages.
He has been a visiting professor at the University of Bradford in England and
LaTrobe University in Australia.
In the School of Social Work, Professor Thomas served as head of the doctoral program in social work and social science, chair of the supervising committee for the doctoral program, and for many years as head of the human behavior
and social environment area of the school's curriculum. He also was primarily responsible for the introduction and integration of social science knowledge into
the master's program in social work Professor Thomas' retirement marks the


189




January Meeting, 1994


departure of an esteemed member of the faculty of the School of Social Work who
was devoted to the development and refinement of intervention theories and
techniques, empirically based practice, and assessments.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edwin J. Thomas
the Fedele F. Fauri Professor Emeritus of Social Work and professor emeritus of
psychology.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the remainder of the consent agenda as listed above.
Finance-Property
Executive Vice President Womack presented proposals for investing portions of the University Endowment Fund in three specific funds specializing in
each of three different investment vehicles: alternative fixed income investments, real estate investments, and venture capital investments. Following some
discussion, the Regents took the following action with respect to investment of
the University Endowment Fund:
Alternative Fixed Income Investments
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15 million of the University Endowment
Fund to Summit Subordinated Debt Fund, L.P., pending the general counsel's
review of the partnership documents for legal acceptability.
Real Estate Investment
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment
Fund to Argo Partnership (plus an additional $1 million made available as a reserve amount), pending the general counsel's review of the partnership agreement for legal acceptability.
Venture Capital Investment
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5 million of the University Endowment
Fund to China Walden Venture Investments Ltd., pending the outcome of the
general counsel's review of the documents for legal acceptability.
Integrated Technology Instruction Center (ITIC)
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that Ellis-Don
Michigan, Inc., had submitted the lowest bid for construction of the Integrated
Technology Instruction Center and had therefore been awarded the construction
contract.


190




January Meeting, 1994


Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Dennis Denno, president of Students for
Dr. Jack Kevorkian, on a proposal for awarding an honorary degree to Dr. Kevorkian at the May 1994 commencement.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:05 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on February 17 and 18, 1994. Regents' expenses
for the month of December 1993 totalled $1,040.46.
Richard LKenney, Seetary


191




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 17, 1994
The Regents met at 3:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Varner. Provost Whitaker was also present, as were Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, and Interim
Chancellor Kugler. Regent Waters, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and
Chancellor Renick were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
McGowan, who made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on February 17, 1994, in the Regents' Room, for the purpose
of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy
in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting then continued in executive session.
Public Comments
The Regents assembled at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union and heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Craig Greenberg, president of MSA, Brian Kight, vice president of MSA,
Vincent Keenan, chair of MSA Student Rights Commission, and Aaron Williams,
citizen, on the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities; Marcia Federbush, citizen, Bob Darden, head coach, Sue Rottman, citizen, and Paul Bischoff,
student, on the men's gymnastics program; and James A Shields, citizen, on
miscellaneous topics.
At 5:00 p.m., following Public Comments, the Regents returned to the Regents' Room to continue meeting in executive session.
Friday, February 18, 1994
The Regents met at 9:35 am. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Whitaker was also present, as were Executive Vice
President Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim Chancellor Kugler, and Chancellor Renick Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy was absent.


193




February Meeting, 1994


President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and noted that Vice President Kennedy's absence was due to surgery he had had the previous day, and
that his recovery was going very well.
Regent Baker stated he had recently been a patient in the University Hospitals for a serious illness. He noted that, as one who had been involved in the
original hospitals' planning and subsequent hospitals' policy-making over several
years, there was a great difference between being a patient and being a policy
maker. Regent Baker expressed his thanks to all of the employees of the University of Michigan Hospitals who make it the wonderful institution that it is, from
those who sweep the floors, to the administrators, and to the medical staffe
1994-95 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Hartford to present the recommendation for 1994-95 residence hall and family housing rates. Vice President
Hartford reported that both the residence hall and family housing student-staff
rate committees had met and recommended rate increases of 3&95 percent for
residence halls and 3.30 percent for family housing apartments.
In response to a question from Regent McFee, it was noted that the residence hall occupancy rate is currently at 98.30 percent. Then, there being no further discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of a rate increase of 3.95
percent for residence halls and 3.30 percent for family housing apartments for
1994-95. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Brown was away from the table when the vote was taken.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUMTV for Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1993; and, WFUM-TV and
WUOM/WVG/WFUM-FM Statements of Support, Revenue and Expenditures (Operating Fund) for Years Ended June 30, 1993 and 1992
Vice President Harrison reported that a review of WUOM/WVGR/WFUMFM (collectively known as "Michigan Radio") had been undertaken over the past
six months, conducted by Mr. Frank Williams, director of strategic planning in
the Office of University Relations; Mr. Jim Beck, director of marketing communications; and Mr. Joel Seguine, station manager of WUOM. Vice President Harrison, Mr. Williams, and Mr. Seguine then gave a presentation on the results of the
review.
Vice President Harrison stated that the reasons for the review were recurring budget deficits and concern about the slow growth in listener contributions
over the last five years, and increasing competition from both commercial and
other public radio stations for market share. Mr. Williams and Mr. Seguine presented the major findings of the review as well as the next steps that will be undertaken to ensure a robust future for Michigan Radio. Vice President Harrison
announced that WUOM will resume coverage of Michigan football beginning in
the fall of 1994.
Vice President Harrison, Mr. Seguine, and Mr. Williams responded to questions and comments from   the Regents about the report. Following some


194




February Meeting, 1994


discussion, Regent Power moved adoption of the audited financial reports for
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1993. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was adopted. Regents Deitch
and McGowan were away from the table when the vote was taken.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. The minutes of the meetings of December 1993 and January 1994
were submitted for approval.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations, and responded
to questions from the Regents about the reports. Vice President Neal submitted
reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of voluntary support.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................................................................ 40,000
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for the Keith B. Alessi Fund in the School of Business Administration.0.........................................1,000
American Academy of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Alexandria, Virginia
for  research   in   the  M edical  School...............................................................................................................................  10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Institute of Gerontology, and the Biophysics Research Division.........................165,899
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington, D.C.
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................6,000
American Federation for Aging Research, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 12,500
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research   in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................8,800
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical School...................................................................................................................................98,750
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for  cancer  research   in  the  M edical School................................................................................................................... 10,000
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for aerospace  research  in  the  College  of Engineering...................................................................................... 11,000
Anonymous Donor
2,308 shares of United American Health Care common stock for the Wade H.
M cCree  Professorship  in  the  Law   School.....................................................................................................................30,148
Anonymous Donor
for the Nephrology Professorship in the Medical School..............................................................................330,000
C. Michael Armstrong, Manhattan Beach, California
for  support  in  the  College  of E ngineering..................................................................................................................12,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,167
Fleming A. Barbour, Flint
265 shares of NBD Bancorp, 160 shares of American International Group, and
30 shares of Morton International common stock for the Eye Center in the
M ed ical  S ch ool.................................................................................................................................................................................... 25,0 6 1
Felicia R. Becker, Ann Arbor
for the Marshall Becker Memorial Scholarship in the School of Public Health........................... 10,000
Bell Communications Research, Inc., Livingston, New Jersey
for research and other support in the School of Information and Library Studies
and   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.............................................................................................................................................25,000
Marion Bellairs, Grand Blanc
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint..................10,000
Benign Essential Blepharospasm Research Foundation, Beaumont, Texas
for ophthalm  ology  research  in  the  M edical School...............................................................................................11,700


195




February Meeting, 1994


Mandell & Madeleine Berman Philanthropic Fund, Southfield
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.........7........7,000
Robert Hunt Berry, Ann Arbor
110 shares of Phillip Morris common stock for research in the Medical School.............................6,057
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................10,000
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
175 shares of ADP common stock for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Scholarship
in the School of Music for the Charles H. Tobias Fund in the Law School and for
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Alumni Association, and the
University Musical Society........................................................................................................... 9,897
Peter F. Borish, New York, New York
for support of the Institute for Public Policy Studies................................................................................ 10,000
Robert S. Bradley, Ann Arbor
for the School of Business Administration, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, Department of Athletics, and University Musical Society........................................................6,100
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1945 Fund in the College of Engineering.................................................................................8,000
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for Visiting Scholars in History Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Milton F. Bryant, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Lectureship in Vascular Diseases in the Medical School...............................................................44,000
Frederick G. Buesser, Jr., Estate
for  th e   P residents   C lub............................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
CBS Foundation, New York, New York
for the Burton R. Benjamin Fellowship, Michigan Journalism Fellows Program.....................50,000
Carl K. and Helen W. Campbell, Farmington
cash gift for the Carl K. and Helen W. Campbell Donor Pooled Income Fund
for  the  ultim ate  benefit  of the  M edical School......................................................................................................... 10,000
Jerry D. Campbell, Owosso
for Transplant House, the University of Michigan Hospitals...................................................................... 10,000
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........................ 10,000
Citibank (Delaware), New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
Charles P. Cousland, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin
for the Charles P. Cousland Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of aerospace
fellowships in the College of Engineering and for support of the Engineering
A n n u al   F u n d.....................................................................................................................................................................................5 05,0 0 0
Alice Berle Crawford, Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art, the Center for the Education of Women, and the Exhibit
Museum     in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................................................5,500
Dewey B. Crawford, Chicago, Illinois
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School....................................................................................7,500
Cray Research, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration....................15,000
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
700 shares of Alltel Corporation common stock for the School of Business
Administration, the School of Education, the President's Fund, and the Sports
Service  Building  in  the  Departm  ent of Athletics................................................................................................. 19,688
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 15,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research and other support in the School of Dentistry...........................................................................42,443
Beatrice A. Denbo, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Milton C. Denbo Endowment in the Law School.................................................................................50,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 10,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program        in the College of Engineering.................................................. 8,800
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
five shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock for the Schools of Business
Administration and Medicine, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
the Center for the Education of Women, the Department of Athletics, and
H ill   A u d itoriu m................................................................................................................................................................................ 8 1 68 8
Steven M. Donn, Ann Arbor
for  research   in   the  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 5.500


196




February Meeting, 1994


Thomas J. Donnelly, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
8,300 shares of Aetna Life and Casualty Company common stock for the
Thomas J. and Marilyn P. Donnelly Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the
Thomas J. Donnelly Scholarship in the Law School and general endowment
in the College of Engineering............................................................................................508,894
Dow Brands L. P., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration...............7,500
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering........................................6,500
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts..........................................................................................................................9,567
Dow Elanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............... 7,500
Marion Merell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the College of Pharmacy and for the Human
Resources Partnership Program        in the School of Business Administration...................................57,500
Ivan F. Duff, Ann Arbor
for the William D. Robinson, M.D., Professorship and other support in the Medical
School and   for  the  M useum   of A rt...............................................................................................................................   7,050
Morris D. Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
for general scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
support in the College of Engineering and the Department of Athletics..............................................5,750
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning...............................................................15,000
Clyne W. and Joan L. Durst, Adrian
610 shares of Society Corporation common stock for the Arthur Boak Endowment
and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Art and for the
Law    School.....186.................................................................................................................................................................................. 18,186
David G. Dvorak, Hickory Corners
for the Ophthalmology Research Endowment in the Medical School................................................. 10,000
Dykema Gossett Law Firm, Detroit
for  capital support  in  the  Law   School...........................................................................................................................125,000
Russell J. Ebeid, Bloomfield Hills
3,663.961 shares of T. Rowe Price for the William Davidson Professorship in the
School  of  B usiness  A dm inistration.................................................................................................................................... 77,273
Virginia J. Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida
for the Virginia J. Ehrlicher Fellowship, School of Information and Library Studies.............50,000
S. Cody Engle, Chicago, Illinois
280 shares of GTE Corporation common stock for the Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Program      in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................9,905
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for  research   in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering, the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts, and  the  Biophysics  Research  Division...........................................................................................40,000
George L. Farr, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the George L. Farr Merit Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Claire W. Field Estate
for Journalism   Scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................50,000
Robert M. Finlayson, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm  inistration.......................................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................20,000
William & Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering..................................................................42,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for capital support in the School of Business Administration and the University
of Michigan Hospitals and for support in the School of Music and the University
M u sical  S ociety..............................................................................................................................................................................260,000
William L. Fox, Alpena
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the University
M u sical  S ociety......................................................................................................................................................................................5,500
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Parker B. Francis Fellowship in the Medical School.........................................................................17,000


197




February Meeting, 1994


Gloria Niemeyer Francke, Washington, D.C.
cash gift for the Gloria N. Francke Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Pharmacy........................................................................................... 10,000
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the School of Education and for the Humanities Institute in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................................................................10,000
Willard G. Fraumann, Deerfield, Illinois
200 shares of Office Depot common stock for support of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for golf course restoration in the
D epartm   ent  of  A thletics.............................................................................................................................................6,725
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe
270 shares of Rockwell International Corporation common stock for the
Larry Teal Scholarship and other support in the School of Music and for the
Law   School and the University Musical Society....................................................................................................10,058
Fruehauf Foundation, St. Clair Shores
for the Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship, School of Business Administration.......................300,000
Robert A. Fuhrman Trust, Pebble Beach, California
for the Aerospace Building in the College of Engineering............................................  10,000
GE Financial Services, Schenectady, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
Robert B. and Lois F. Geary, Groton, Connecticut
for the Loyal Crew Campaign in the College of Engineering and for unrestricted
support of the Horace H. Rackham             School of Graduate Studies.................................................................5,250
Wood M. Geist Trust, Washington
for the Schools of Art and Education, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the University Musical Society, and WFUM-TV...............................................................................7,350
Roland Thomas Gerhart, Milford
for the Tool and Die Industry Assistance Fund, Transportation Research Institute..............30,000
R. C. Gerstenberg, Scottsdale, Arizona
250 shares of Marsh & McLennan common stock for the School of Business
A dm  inistration................................................................................................................................................................................... 20,000
Elmer G. Gilbert, Ann Arbor
for aerospace support in the College of Engineering and for the University Musical
Society.................................................................................................................................................................................................10,200
Glaucoma Foundation, New York, New York
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School..................................................................................................9,900
Clifton S. Goddin, Jr., Tulsa, Oklahoma
2,000 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock for the Clifton S. Goddin, Jr.,
Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the Clifton S. Goddin, Jr., Scholarship in the
C ollege    of  E ngineering............................................................................................................................................................. 106,250
James F. Goodrich, Cumberland Foreside, Maine
100 shares of Reuters Holdings and 100 shares of Federal National Mortgage
Association common stock for the James F. Goodrich Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering..................................................................................... 14,863
J. Richard Goulet, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Eugene M. Grant & Company Real Estate Management, New York, New York
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology and the Judaic Studies Development Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................................................90,000
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity    M usical Society........................................................................................................................................ 7,942
Carroll J. Haas, Mendon
for  research   in  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................................. 15,000
Stanley G. and Dorothy K Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois
300 shares of St. Paul Bancorp and 35 shares of Allergan, Inc., common stock
and a cash gift of $1,450 for the Stanley G. and Dorothy K. Harris Donor Pooled
Incom   e   F u n d........10                                                                                      129............................................................................................................................................................................. 10,129
John A. Hartford Foundation, New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................112,576
General James K Herbert Foundation, Fresno, California
for   th e   K elsey   M u seu m.................................................................................................................................................................8,333
L. Gaylord Hulbert Trust
for  the  L. G aylord  H ulbert   Fund....................................................................................................................................... 17,400
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
1,800 shares of Intel Corporation common stock for gifts pending designation........................ 112,725


198




February Meeting, 1994


Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund in the School
of Nursing and for the Museum                 of Art...........................................................................................................................10,950
Garrett B. Johnson, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Kirkland &          Ellis Professorship in the Law             School.......................................................................... 10,000
Frank Norman Johnston Trust
for the School of Business Administration.............................................................................................................. 1,000
Ray W. and Mary Lou Judson, Pasadena, California
for the College of Engineering............................................................................................................................................20,000
Barbara Brattin Kacir, Cleveland, Ohio
for the William        J. Brattin Scholarship in the Law               School......................................................................... 7,800
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............6,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................................................................................ 5,000
Richard Katcher, Cleveland Ohio
600 shares of GTE Corporation, 468 shares of Standard Products, and 200 shares
of Exxon Corporation common stock, and a cash gift of $2,250 for the Richard
and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship and other support in the Law School
and for the Tom         Harmon scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................................ 52,831
W. M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for facilities for the Computational Aerodynamics Laboratory Program in
the    C ollege   of  E ngineering.................................................................................................................................................... 750,000
Keeler Foundation, Grand Rapids
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education.........................................................................................................................21,100
Shake Ketefian, Ann Arbor
for the Krikor Ketefian Endowment in the School of Nursing......................................................................5,000
Robert J. Kheel, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law                School................................................................................................................ 10,000
Milton L. Kiebler Estate
for the Milton and Gertrude Kiebler Memorial Scholarship...................................................................... 412,337
Robert I. Kleinberg, New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of Literature,
Science,    and     th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................20,000
Edwin L. and Katherine A. Knetzger, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Krueger Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 10,000
Koepfgen Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan....................................................................... 15,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for the William       W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship in the Law                       School................................ 10,000
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Professorship in the College of Literature, Science,
an d    th e   A rts...................................................................................................................................................................................... 100,0 0 0
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................................................... 19,170
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for unrestricted support of the Law                  School................................................................................................... 10,000
Michael J. Levitt, Englewood, New Jersey
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration............................................................................ 10,000
Lawrence I. Levy, Houston, Texas
for  research       in   the  M edical  School......................................................................................................................................6,500
Lillian Levy Trust, Farmington Hills
for the Norman Levy Research Endowment in the Medical School....................................................... 10,000
Benjamin D. Lewis, Taunton, Massachusetts
500 shares of New Bedford Bancorp common stock for the Benjamin D.
Lewis Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Law                                  School............................ 18,625
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................................................... 12,500
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research................................................................................................... 21,696
Loews Foundation, New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Hospitals.................................................................................................................... 12,500
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................................................. 7,500


199




February Meeting, 1994


George H. Lowrey, Sun City West, Arizona
368 shares of Merck & Company common stock for support in the Medical
School and the Center for the Education of Women.........................................................................................12,903
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................90,000
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
750 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock for the
Robert P. Luciano Endowment in the Law School....................................................................................... 51,516
B. Ann Lurie Revocable Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  the  R obert  H. Lurie  Fund..........................................................................................................................................1,000,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in  the  School of Education.......................................................................................................................66,000
Donald H. Malloure, Franklin
1,000 shares of Caterpillar, Inc., common stock for the College of Engineering..........................90,375
Mark IV Industries Foundation, Inc., Amherst, New York
for discretionary support in the College of Engineering..................................................................................20,000
Matthaei Foundation, Birmingham
for the Mildred Hague Matthaei Student Research Fund and the Botanical
Gardens Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................30,000
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred Mcintosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music................................................ 10,000
Zelpha E. McKinnon Trust, Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint,
in   m em ory   of  M r. M cK innon............................................................................................................................................... 100,000
McNamara Charity Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for student aid at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................................................................6,000
George Meader, Ann Arbor
200 shares of AT&T and 117 shares of Ameritech Corporation common stock
for  capital  support  of  the  Law   School............................................................................................................................. 20,082
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Fred Meijer Fellowship in Creative Writing, College of Literature,
Scien ce, an d   th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................................................. 60,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School..............................................................................90,000
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for  research  in  the  School of Public   H ealth................................................................................................................20,935
Arthur A. Miller, Roxbury, Connecticut
for the Arthur Miller Endowment, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................25,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Hill Auditorium      Restoration Fund and the Clements Library
A ssociates    F u n d.................................................................................................................................................................................25,00 0
Mary Lee Moon Trust, Harbor Springs
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.......................................................................... 10,000
George W. Morley, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School.................................................................51,750
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship................................................................................................. 5,236
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
400 shares of Crestar Financial Corporation common stock for the
Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics....................................... 16,725
John D. Moss, Peekskill, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics........................................................................... 10,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................................... 7,500
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
John S. Munn, South Bend, Indiana
for the John S. and Suzanne C. Munn Fund in the Medical School.......................................................97,400
Mary C. Murphy, Calumet
3,461 shares of various corporate common stock for the Mary C. Murphy
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Percy J. Murphy, M.D., and
Mary C. Murphy, R.N., Professorship of Pediatrics in Child Health Delivery..................... 207,619
William K Najjar, Grand Rapids
for periodontics support in the School of Dentistry.............................................................................................20,000
Robert H. Nathan, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Jo Ann and Stuart C. Nathan Funds in the Schools of Business
Administration and Natural Resources and Environment...........................................................................25,000


200




February Meeting, 1994


Scott A. Nathan, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Jo Ann and Stuart C. Nathan Funds in the Schools of Business
Administration and Natural Resources and Environment....................................................... 25,000
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................................. 23,981
Doris L. Naughton, Southfield
for the Sharon Naughton-Briggs Memorial Scholarship and for the Alumni
A ssociation      C.A.M.P.  B uilding.............................................................................................................................................75,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Isadore Lampe Chair in the Medical School....................................................................................25,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
120 shares of Wesco Financial Corporation common stock for the Corporation
Environment Management Program                     in the School of Business Administration.............1.......... 15,690
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
for the William       W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship in the Law                    School................................. 10,000
Nokomis Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Center for the Education of Women.....................................................................................................  10,000
L. S. Norman, Homosassa, Florida
300 shares of Walgreen Company common stock for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial
Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 11,831
Richard W. Odgers, San Francisco, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School, the School of Art, and the Institute
of  P ublic   P olicy   S tu dies............................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
697 shares of Pepsico, Inc., common stock for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund
in   the  Law    School.........................................................................................................................................................................28 359
Thomas W. Ostrander, New York, New York
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration...............................13,500
PPOM, Southfield
for the Associates Program            in the School of Business Administration............................................... 10,000
Mary Palmer, Ann Arbor
718 shares of First Union Corporation common stock for the University
M  u sical   S ociety..................................................................................................................................................................................  29,6 6 2
Jorge M. Perez, Coral Gables, Florida
for fellowships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.......................................................10,000
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law                  School......................................................................................22,000
Jeffry M. & Barbara Picower Foundation, New York, New York
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
L iterature, Science, and         the  A rts........................................................................................................................................ 25,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
L iterature, Science, and         the  A rts.......................................................................................................................................... 7,500
John A. Pursley, Belleview, Florida
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of  the   C ollege   of  E ngineering................................................................................................................................................ 10,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law              School...................................................................................................................7,500
Ralph E. Bennett Post 29 AmVets, Mount Clemens
for the Burn Research and Education Fund in the Medical School...........................................................6,500
Republic National Bank, New York, New York
for the Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Professorships in the Schools of Law
and     B u siness  A dm inistration.............................................................................................................................................150,000
John Rich, Los Angeles, California
for the John Rich Humanities Institute Fund, College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................................50,000
Robert B. and Pearl P. Richardson Trust, Seattle, Washington
for the Robert B. and Pearl P. Richardson Fund......................................................................................................6,297
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
330 shares of Knight-Ridder common stock for the Sports Service Building in
the    D epartm   ent  of  A thletics..................................................................................................................................................20,171
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Fund
for the Frank E. Robbins Integrated Pre-Medical Program Fund in the
M  ed ical    S ch oo l....................................................................................................................................................................................  9 912
Eugene and C. Ruth Roberts Trust, Monrovia, California
for the Eugene and Ruth Roberts Scholarship in Creativity, College of
L iteratu  re, Science, and        the  A rts.........................................................................................................................................5,000


201




February Meeting, 1994


Raymond B. Robins, Santa Barbara, California
3,455.118 shares of the T. Rowe Price Fund for the Dr. Raymond and
Barbara Robins Student Aid Fund in the School of Dentistry................................................................. 18,589
Beulah L. Roensch, Laguna Hills, California
cash gift for the Beulah L. Roensch Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and the Arts and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................................ 10,000
Richard H. and Susan Rogel, Southfield
for the  University  M usical Society...................................................................................................................   10,000
Richard Rogel Trust, West Bloomfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics, the School
of Music, and for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan..................................404,000
Lois R. Ross Trust, Naples, Florida
for the Coleman J. and Lois R. Ross Scholarship in Physical Therapy, the
U niversity   of M ichigan-Flint...............................................................................................................50,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Quebec
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
Jonathan Rye, Birmingham
for the School of Business Administration Growth Fund.....................................................................20,000
Theodore Sachs, West Bloomfield
532 shares of Rhone-Poulenc Rorer and 64 shares of Sara Lee Corporation
common stock for general endowment in the Law School......................................................................20,824
Richard N. Sarns, Ann Arbor
for the Schools of Business Administration and Education, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, Division of Kinesiology, President's Fund, Museum of Art,
University Musical Society, and Historical Center for the Health Sciences....................................... 9,850
Charles H. and Katharine C. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
2,980 shares of various bank corporate stock for the Charles H. and Katharine C.
Sawyer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Charles H. and
Katharine C. Sawyer Fellowship in Museum Practice....................................................................................... 54,561
Edward I. Schalon, Naples, Florida
3,000 shared of SPX Corporation common stock for chemistry support in the
College  of Literature, Science, and  the  Arts.............................................................................................................. 48,750
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for the Plough Scholarship and the Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy..........................95,000
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................7,765
Searle Family Trust, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Sally and William L. Searle Professorship in Conservation of Biological
Diversity Ecosystem Management and Restoration, School of Natural Resources
an d   E n viron m ent..........................................................................................................................................................................5 75,00
Joseph R. Seiger, Foster City, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School......................................................... 10,000
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
833 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock for the Minority Scholarship Fund
in the Office of Financial Aid and for support in the Colleges of Engineering
and  Literature, Science, and  the  A rts............................................................................................................................. 20,669
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for the Sims Medal and Award Program in the School of Social Work................................................5,667
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering and the Center for the Education
of  W om en...................................................................................................................................................................................... 18 2,4 5 3
Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio
600 shares of Heilig-Meyers common stock and a cash gift of $500 for
ophthalmology support in the Medical School, the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics, and the College of Pharmacy...................................................................21,675
Harriet Oliver Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
8,468 shares of various corporate common stock for the Harriet Oliver Smith
Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the Goff Smith Fund in the College of
Engineering, graduate fellowships in the School of Business Administration,
and the restoration and enhancement of Hill Auditorium.......................................................................... 398,876
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
500 shares of Banctec, Inc., common stock for geological sciences support in
the  College  of Literature, Science, and  the  Arts..................................................................................................... 11,438
Irving A. Smokler Trust, Ann Arbor
for  the  Center  for  the  Education  of W om en.............................................................................................................. 25.000


202




February Meeting, 1994


Richard C. Sneed, Cleveland, Ohio
100 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock for unrestricted support of the
Law   School............................................................................................................................................  6850
Thomas H. Snyder, Wilmette, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law           School.......................................................................................................5,250
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship, Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate    Studies..................................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.......................................218,573
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for the George E., Jr., and Elizabeth S. Sperling Endowment in the Law School.....................6,000
SPX Foundation, Muskegon
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiative Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering......................................................................................................20,000
Professor and Mrs. Eric Stein, Ann Arbor
61 shares of General Electric common stock for the Law School................................................................5,138
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................25,000
Stephen A. Stone, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
for endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................................30,000
Malcolm J. Sutherland, Grosse Pointe Farms
for  unrestricted    support of the     Law    School...................................................................................................................8,000
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for Teaching Excellence Fund and other support, School of Business Administration.............6,500
Frances Willson Thompson Trust, Flint
for the Frances Willson Thompson Library, the University of Michigan-Flint.............................77,918
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for  the  A rthur  T hurnau      Fund............................................................................................................................................167 917
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the Horace H.
Rackham      School of Graduate Studies............................................................................................................................50,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Hospitals................................................................................................................... 12,500
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and      the   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................100 000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for optical sciences research in the College of Engineering...........................................................................50,000
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
3,000 shares of Santa Fe Pacific Pipeline, Ltd., common stock for the Lynn
and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School.........................................................................113,250
Frank H. Tranzow, Arcadia, California
for the Campaign for Michigan in the College of Engineering.......................................................................8,000
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for  em ployee     m atching   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 13,685
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for group decision making support in the College of Pharmacy................................................................ 10,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Frederick S. Upton Clements Library Fund and for unrestricted
support    of  the   L aw   School........................................................................................................................................................ 10,500
Ann T. Van Rosevelt Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................................................8,3 3 3
Virginia Supermarkets, Inc., Norfork, Virginia
for the Keith B. Alessi Fund in the School of Business Administration.............................................10,000
Michael S. Vitton, Brooklyn, New York
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration..........................................................................20,000
Robert J. Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the Robert J. Vizas Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, an   d   th e   A rts......................................................................................................................................................................5,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for the William S. Smith Research Fund in the Medical School and for support
in the School of Education, Division of Kinesiology, and Department of Athletics..................... 9,000


203




February Meeting, 1994


John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Arthur Fondiler History Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Scien ce,  an d   th e  A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Parke-Davis Fund in the Medical Center and for employee matching gifts..................55,534
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the Hematology/Oncology Fund in the Medical School and for biostatistics
support  in   the  School of Public  H ealth.........................................................................................................................28,162
George R. Webster, Vail, Colorado
750 shares of McGraw Hill common stock for the Arthur Webster Memorial
E ndow m ent  in   the  Law   School..........................................................................................................................................49,828
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration........... 15,000
Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, Washington, D.C.
for the John H. Pickering Scholarship in the Law School...............................................................250,000
Matilda Wilson Foundation, Detroit
for the  Geriatrics Center in  the  M edical School....................................................................................................50,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Prechter Scholarship in Literacy, Reading, and Language in the School of
E d u cation............................................................................................................................................................................................. 20,0 0 0
James P. and Gail W. Young, Atherton, California
1,000 shares of Dexter Corporation common stock for the School of Business
A d m in lstration...........................................s........................................................................................................................................23,125
Ferdinand B. Zienty, St. Louis, Missouri
cash gift for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Pharmacy and the Horace H. Rackham
School  of  G raduate   Stu dies...................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
James R. Baker, Jr., Ann Arbor
a Flying Scot sailboat with accessories for the Alumni Association
Robert Ball, London, England
a collection of eight hundred 78-rpm phonograph records (1938-1948) for WUOM/WVGR
Lawrence S. Brown, Ann Arbor
custom PC software for a marketing database for the Institute for Continuing Legal Education
John J. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
460 psychology books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Lois A. Budman, Bloomfield Hills
a glass sculpture: "Pilaster" by Howard Ben Tr6 for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Permanent Art Collection
Joan and Bernard Chordorkoff, Waterford
art works: "White Basket Series" by Dale Chihuly (1981) and Richard P. Ritter's "Untitled"
(1984) for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Permanent Art Collection
William H. Culp, Decatur, Georgia
art works: glass bowl by Kent Ipsen, lithographs by Georges Rouault and Marco Spalitin, and
signed exhibition poster by Spalitin for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Permanent Art
Collection
Patrick and Patricia Daoust, Dearborn
five pieces of studio art glass: vase forms, bowl and glass by Dominick Labino and multi-flora
by Charles Lotton for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Permanent Art Collection
General Motors Corporation, Warren
a Rofin-Sinar model 825 laser generator, a GMF L-100 laser robot and controller, an AEC
chiller, and additional control panels and other systems support for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
Christin N. Grant, Ann Arbor
four Eames Aluminum Group office chairs by Herman Miller for WUOM
Charles Griffith, Clarkston
myoelectric hand, hook, glove, procontroller socket and terminal device for the Department of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Occupational Therapy Division
Professor and Mrs. Gerome Kamrowski, Ann Arbor
Edgar Yeagar's "Still Life" (1939), oil on canvas Mike Kelley's "Pogoroid Aid" (1975),
pencil/gouach on paper Myron Chapin's "Dog's Head," crayon on wove paper for the Museum
of Art
Alice A. Simsar, Ann Arbor
a collection of gallery art supplies and equipment for the School of Art


204




February Meeting, 1994


Stephen Skillitzi, Brighton, South Australia
Stephen Skillitzi's "Behind the Mask" (1991), a glass and electroformed copper metal sculpture, for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Permanent Art Collection
Todd Stern, Troy
ten rolls of Volara foam for preservation of the museum collection for the Museum of
Anthropology
Alfred S. and Selma Sussman, Ann Arbor
Hugh Jenkins' glass sculpture, "Waterfall #3" (1990), for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Permanent Art Collection
Donald and Carol Wiiken, Oak Park, Illinois
Michael Glancy's two-piece glass sculpture, "Kilauea Star X" (1984), for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Permanent Art Collection
Additional gifts ranging from    $1 to $999 in value were received from     the
following donors:
Mark Brecht, Riverdale                  Ellis Perlman, Burton
William L. Cash, Jr., Ann Arbor         Richard Pitts, Livonia
Marie Margaret Eidt, Harsens Island     William L. Ross, Sr., Brighton
Todd A. Greene, Grand Rapids            Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
Stanley G. Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois  Eric Stein, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor                Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Carol A. Lutz, Davison
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
actions. He pointed out that six appointments to Thurnau Professorships were
being submitted for approval.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective June 1, 1994
Joseph E. Oesterling, M.D., Professor of Surgery
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Allan R. Beaudoin, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, reappointed to active
status, one-year term
John R. Chamberlin, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, and Associate
Dean for Academic Appointments, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed
Associate Dean for Academic Appointments, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
one-year term, July 1, 1994
Robert N. Grosse, Professor Emeritus of Population Planning and International Health,
Professor Emeritus of Health Planning, and Professor Emeritus of Urban, Technological,
and Environmental Planning, reappointed to active status, university year,
September 1, 1993
Graham B. Hovey, Professor Emeritus of Communication, reappointed to active status,
winter term
Shaw Livermore, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, reappointed to active status, winter term
Michael M. Martin, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Undergraduate
Education and Long-Range Planning, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
reappointed Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education and Long-Range Planning,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, one-year term, July 1, 1994


205




February Meeting, 1994


Robert L. Shaffer, Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor Emeritus of
Fungal Taxonomy and Curator Emeritus of Fungi, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Chen T. Tai, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed to
active status, one-year term
Richard G. Teske, Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, reappointed to active status, winter term
Thomas E. Toon, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Director, Program in Linguistics, reappointed
Director, Program in Linguistics, one-year term, July 1, 1994
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Sharon C. Herbert, Professor of Classical Archaeology, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Classical Studies, January 1, 1995-August 31, 1999
David A. Lam, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Director,
Population Studies Center, three-year term, July 1, 1994
Martha L. Ludwig, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Acting Chair, Biophysics Research Division, six-month term, January 1, 1994
Donald J. Munro, from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, Professor of Chinese, with tenure,
and Interim Chair, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, to Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure, Professor of Chinese, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Asian Languages and Cultures, one-year term, July 1, 1994
Margaret C. Root, Professor of Classical and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology, with tenure,
and Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, also appointed Chair, Department of History
of Art, five-year term, August 1, 1994
B. Alan Taylor, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Mathematics, three-year term, August 1, 1994
Martha J. Vicinus, Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, with
tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
English Language and Literature, five-year term, September 1, 1994
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Michael D. Allen, Chair, Air Force Officer Education Program, three-year term,
January 18, 1994
Elizabeth S. Anderson, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, with
tenure also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term, July 1, 1994
Arjun Appadurai, Ph.D., Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, March 20-April 9, 1994
A Lorris Betz, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of
Neurology, without tenure, Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Associate Dean for
Faculty Affairs, Medical School, also appointed the Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of
Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, four-year term, February 18, 1994
Morton Brown, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, three year term, July 1, 1994
Katherine Kurtz, Assistant Dean for Development and External Relations, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 1994
Annemarie S. Palincsar, Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed the Jean and
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professor of Reading and Literacy, five-year term,
February 1, 1994
M. Joseph Roberson, Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, appointment period changed, five-year
term, February 1, 1994 (previously reported as three year term, July 1, 1994)
Rebecca J. Scott, Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
three year term, July 1, 1994


206




February Meeting, 1994


John H. Vandermeer, Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, three year term, July 1, 1994
Rob Van Der Voo, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Geological Sciences, also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term,
July 1, 1994
R. Brent Wagner, Associate Professor of Music (Musical Theatre), with tenure, also appointed
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term, July 1, 1994
John P. Weidenbach, Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, appointment extension changed,
one-month term, January 1, 1994 (previously reported as a six-month term)
Establishment of Additional Unendowed School/College Professorships. The Regents approved the establishment of 22 additional school/college
professorships, effective March 1, 1994. The professorships will be distributed
among the schools and colleges by the provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs, upon consultation with the deans, as described in the Regents
Communication.
The following committee appointments were approved:
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selections Committee
Geraldine B. Ford, reappointed, one-year term ending December 31, 1994
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Nandit R. Soparkar, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
College ofLiterature, Science, and the Arts
Saiful-Islam Abdul-Ahad, BA, Lecturer II in History
Desiree A Baron, MA, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Prathima Christdas, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
April DeConick, MA, Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies
Michael K Dorsey, B.S., Lecturer I in Natural Resources
Lorna G. Goodison, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Gail M. Gottfried, MA, Lecturer II in Psychology, September 1, 1993
Gordon D. Henry, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Native American Studies
Kirsten F. Herold, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Edward S. Hinchman, BA, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Joseph H. Manson, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Amanda A Martin-Esker, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chemistry
Anne B. Nelson, MA, Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Donna L. Wessel Walker, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English
John K Whitmore, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Southeast Asian Studies and History
Medical School
Dennis K Bishop, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery
Celia M. D'Errico, D.O., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Michael E. Geisser, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Rehabilitation Psychology
Scott D. Gitlin, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine


207




February Meeting, 1994


David A Jamadar, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Carol L. Koskuc, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
School of Music
Kathy M. Robinson, M.M., Lecturer in Music (Music Education)
College of Pharmacw
Elyse J. Hoffman-Kirschner, Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, December 20, 1993
School of Public Health
Lisa T. Ross, Ph.D., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education
Paola Valsania, M.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPRV              PROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Alfin Vaz, from Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry to Associate Research Scientist
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Science, and Letters
Steffany G. Ellis, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Economics
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Claudia S. Kocher, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Shirley J. Jones, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Thomas C. Kinnear, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, and Maynard Phelps Professor of
Business Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1994
School of Dentistry
Harry R. Pape, Jr., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1,1994-December 31, 1996
School of Public Health
Barry G. Rabe, Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure,
contract leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Allan R. Emery, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1994
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Division of Kinesiology
Bruce A. Watkins, Associate Professor of Kinesiology, contract leave, September 1, 1993 -July 31, 1994 (previously reported as September 1-December 31, 1993)


208




February Meeting, 1994


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Karl S. Deluga, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, February 28, 1994
Christopher F. Galus, Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology, January 2, 1994
Ester P. Grimaldi, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 18, 1994
Anna Kalman, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, December 1, 1993
Daisy S. McCann, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, August 31, 1993
Linda C. Stone, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice, December 31, 1993
School of Nursing
Mary M. Hoenecke, Lecturer in Nursing, December 31, 1993
Retirement Memoir. Provost Whitaker submitted the following retirement memoir:
Larry Selinker, professor of linguistics, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1993, following a sixteen-year career at the University of
Michigan.
Professor Selinker received his B.A degree in Near Eastern Studies from
Brandeis University in 1959 and his M.A. degree in linguistics from The American University in 1960. He completed his Ph.D. degree in languages and linguistics at Georgetown University in 1966. From 1966-75, he was assistant professor
of linguistics and director of English for foreign students at the University of
Washington. He served as a Fulbright scholar at Hebrew University from
1975-76 and was on the faculty of San Jose State University from 1976-77. Professor Selinker came to the University of Michigan in 1977 as professor of linguistics with tenure and director of the English Language Institute. He served in
the latter position until 1982.
Professor Selinker was awarded his first Fulbright professorship at the Uniersity of Edinburgh in 1968-69, where he focused on psycholinguistics related to
second language learnng. In 1975-76, he was a Fulbright professor in English
Linguistics at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, where he specialized in advanced
reading in a second language for professional needs. In 1991, he received a Faculty Recognition Fund Award from the Graduate School, and that same year he
also served as a visiting professor of moder languages at Carnegie Mellon University. In 1992, Professor Selinker completed his third Fulbright professorship
at Gesamthochschule Kassel Universitaet in Germany.
Although his primary appointment was in the English Language Institute,
Professor Selinker was also on the faculty of the Department of Linguistics,
where he specialized in second language acquisition and interlanguage theory. In
recent years, he taught a popular undergraduate course, "The Good and Bad
Language Learner."
Professor Selinker is well known for his paper, "Language Transfer," which
first appeared in General Linguistics in 1969 and has since been reprinted in a
number of other journals and collections. His most recent books include Rediscovering Interlanguage (1992) and, with Susan Gass, a revised edition of Language Transfer in Language Learning (1992).
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Larry Selinker professor emeritus of linguistics.


209




February Meeting, 1994


Memorial Statement. Provost Whitaker submitted the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the death on January 27, 1994, of Daniel Thoburn Snyder, professor of
dentistry.
Dr. Snyder was born in Indiana, Pennsylvania, on April 5, 1931. He received
his DoD.S. degree in 1962 and his M.S. degree in restorative dentistry in 1967,
both from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty at the University of
Michigan School of Dentistry as a clinical instructor in 1962 and proceeded
through the ranks to reach full professor in 1974. Dr. Snyder also served as interim assistant dean for clinical affairs from 1988-91.
A devoted member of the dental profession, Dr. Snyder served as practitioner, clinician, lecturer, author, editor, and administrator. He was a mentor
and friend to many, having served for several years as a sponsor of the Christian
Medical/Dental Society. He also had been an active member of the Hemophilia
Foundation of Michigan since 1966. Dr. Snyder's memberships in professional
societies included the executive board of the American Board of Operative Den~
tistry, Omicron Kappa Upsilon, and the Society of Sigma Xi.
Daniel Snyder left an enduring mark on his students and colleagues, both
through his professional accomplishments and his personal qualities of modesty,
dedication, and quiet dignity. We mourn the loss of this distinguished scholar
and teacher and our condolences go to his wife Shirley, his three children, Stephen, Mark, and Bethel, and five grandchildren, Skylar, Kelsey, Stephanie,
Amanda, and Jennifer.
Degrees. Provost Whitaker submitted the final degree lists for the September 1993 Law School commencement and December 1993 commencements from
other schools, colleges, divisions, and branch campuses, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the consent agenda as listed above.
Henry Russel Award. The Regents approved the selection of Stephen Lee,
associate professor of chemistry, to receive the Henry Russel Award for 1994.
Semi-Annual Report for the Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities
Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a schedule summarizing the
activity in the Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the six month periods ending December 31, 1993 and December
31, 1992, and responded to comments from the Regents.
Common Fund Inventories
Executive Vice President Womack submitted June 30, 1993 inventories of
the Common Fund pooled funds in which the University participates, as well as a
list of managers as of June 30, 1993.


210




February Meeting, 1994


Lowe, Brockenbrough, Tierney & Tattersall
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that one of its domestic bond fund managers, Lowe, Brockenbrough, Tierney & Tattersall, has organized the Alpha Global Fund with Bridgewater Associates, Inc., an experienced
foreign bond and currency manager. After reviewing the matter with the assistance of Cambridge Associates, the University's investment officers have decided
to permit LBT&T to utilize the Alpha Global Bond Fund in the University's
portfolio.
Venture Capital Investments
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5 million of the University Endowment
Fund to WPG Corporate Development Associates IV, L.P., pending the outcome
of the general counsel's review of the documents for legal acceptability.
Oil and Gas Investing
Regent Power moved that $5 million of the University Endowment Fund be
committed to RIMCO Partners V, L.P., and $12.5 million of the University Endowment Fund be committed to Merit Energy Partners X, L.P., pending the general counsel's review of the partnership documents for legal acceptability. Regent
Varner seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was approved
unanimously.
Issuance of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds and Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds in an amount not to
exceed $221,000,000
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the following resolution authorizing the
executive vice president and chief financial officer to increase the amount of the
Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds, and Medical
Service Plan Refunding Bonds from  $170,000,000 to $221,000,000. Regent
McFee seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was approved
unanimously. The following is the text of the approved resolution:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, on September 24, 1993, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") adopted its Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Hospital Revenue Bonds
and Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds, and Providing for Other Matters Relating Thereto,
which Resolution was amended on December 17, 1993 (as amended, the "Resolution"); and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable to further amend the Resolution as provided
herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:


211




February Meeting, 1994


1. The second "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to include within the
definition and description of the "Projects", the acquisition, construction, furnishing and equipping of the North Entrance Parking Structure and the undertaking of building component and
equipment replacement and facilities renovations at the Hospital in the current and the two succeeding fiscal years.
2. The eighth 'Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the
amount in the seventh line from "One Hundred Seventy Million Dollars ($170,000,000)" to "Two
Hundred Twenty-One Million Dollars ($221,000,000)".
3. Section 1 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in the seventh
line of the first paragraph thereof from "$65,000,000" to "$114,000,000", the amount in the
ninth line of the first paragraph thereof from "$170,000,000" to "$221,000,000", and the amount
in the thirty-fourth line thereof from "$10,000,000" to "$25,100,000"o
4. Section 2 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in the ninth line
from "$170,000,000" to $221,000,000".
5. As amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed. All resolutions or
parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are
hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Resolution in Honor of Jack Weidenbach
Regent McFee read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan gratefully
acknowledge the dedication and service of Jack Weidenbach as he
concludes a 28-year career at the University.
Jack first came to the University in 1966 and for 22 years held
an impressive array of positions, all of which were critical to the
University's daily operation and the development of its physical
plant. From his initial appointment as manager of Willow Run
Airport, he advanced to director of plant extension (1968), director of
physical properties (1971), and finally to director of business
operations (1977). In the latter position, he oversaw the building and
maintenance of the University's physical plant and the related areas
of purchasing, public safety, and occupational safety and
environmental health.
A quiet, self-effacing man, Jack directed the explosive growth of
the campus through some of the most turbulent periods in the
University's history while never missing a step-a gentle giant to be
sure.
And then in June of 1988, at a time when he could have been
looking ahead to a quiet life of retirement, Jack was instead thrust
into the spotlight of intercollegiate athletics when he assumed the
post of associate athletic director. Jack's accomplishments in that
post and in his subsequent positions as interim director (1990), then


212




February Meeting, 1994


director (1991) of athletics have had a phenomenal impact on both
the programs and the physical facilities of the athletic department.
He has worked tirelessly to improve academic support programs for
student athletes and to strengthen women's intercollegiate athletics
to the point where true equal opportunity is now within reach. By not
only maintaining, but enhancing the tradition of Michigan athletics,
Jack proved to be a worthy successor to his illustrious predecessors.
Under his stewardship, the athletic program achieved new heights of
excellence and national recognition in many areas.
Few people have had as broad an impact on the University as
has Jack Weidenbach. In recognition of his distinguished
contributions to the University, to the athletic department, and to the
lives of its faculty, staff, and students, the Regents now name John
P. (Jack) Weidenbach Director Emeritus of Athletics.
The motion was approved by acclamation.
Naming of the Athletic Administration Building
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved naming the newly renovated athletic administration
building John P. Weidenbach Hall.
2460 Glazier Way Property
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
voted unanimously to authorize granting of a temporary construction easement
on the University's property at 2460 Glazier Way to Merlyn Contractors, Inc.
Angell Hall Renovation Project and Bid Information
Regent Deitch moved, Regent McFee seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the expenditure of $1 million for additional renovation work on
the Angell Hall Renovation Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: 1) Parking Services 1994 annual
maintenance program; 2) Phase IV of the Michigan Stadium renovation; and 3)
annual classroom renovations.
Joint Venture with Foote Memorial Hospital in a Radiation Oncology
Program
Executive Vice President Womack observed that this opportunity, for the
University to establish a radiation oncology service in Jackson, will be beneficial
both to Foote Memorial Hospital and the University. It represents the kind of
networking that will be the model for such activities in the future, and more such
arrangements are anticipated with other hospitals.


213




February Meeting, 1994


Regent Deitch expressed enthusiastic support for the proposal and moved
approval of the capital investment and participation by the University through
the University of Michigan Medical Center in the Foote-University Radiation Oncology joint venture under the terms and conditions described in the Regents
Communication. Regent McGowan seconded the motion. A discussion followed,
during which Regent Power observed he shared Regent Deitch's enthusiasm for
this and other similar proposals and Executive Vice President Womack responded to questions. Regent Baker asked that the Regents be allowed to review
the final agreement before it is signed. The vote was taken and the motion was
approved unanimously.
Agreements between the University of Michigan and the William
Davidson Institute at the School of Business Administration
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement and an administrative services agreement between the University of Michigan and the William Davidson Institute.
Because B. Joseph White, who will execute the agreements, is both president of
the William Davidson Institute and dean of the School of Business Administration, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statuteo The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to both the Lease Agreement and the Administrative Services Agreement will be the University of Michigan and the William Davidson Institute at
the University of Michigan School of Business Administration.
2.   Terms of the Lease Agreement: Rental of 1607 sq. ft. on the ninth floor of the
School of Business Administration plus classroom and other meeting spaces at
the School assigned by the dean's office or other delegated offices of the school
at a rate of $18.00/sq. ft. or $28,927.00 annually, payable in two equal installments on September 1 and March 1 of each year. The duration of the Lease
Agreement will be three years commencing on September 1, 1993, and terminating on August 31, 1996.
The University will provide for housekeeping and custodial services and other
interior maintenance of the leased premises through its normal custodial and
service employees with appropriate recharges.
Terms of the Administrative Services Agreement: The duration of the Administrative Services Agreement will be five years, from January 1, 1994, through
December 31, 1998, with services charged at the same rate for University departments and employees.
The University will provide University support facilities and services in the areas of financial, telephone directory listing, mail services, purchasing, stores,
computer network access and related services, printing, copying and similar
services, the opportunity to purchase athletic tickets and recreational facilities
passes and parking permits, the use of University library facilities, the purchase
of University training or Human Resources Development programs, the use of
any services provided by the University's International Center, the use of any
services provided by the University Faculty and Staff Assistance Program and
the joint appointment of employees and appropriate sharing of payroll and staff
benefits assistance concerning employees. University employees will be provided as appropriate to render such support services and facilities to the institute and its employees.


214




February Meeting, 1994


3.   B. Joseph White has no pecuniary interest arising from his position as the
president of the William Davidson Institute at the University of Michigan
School of Business Administration or by virtue of the above agreements.
Proposed Research Contract.between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL)
Regent Varner moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved a research contract between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL, Inc.). Because the
president of TSRL, Inc., Gordon L. Amidon, is also a University employee, this
arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
TSRL, Inc.
2.   The contract to be signed is the University's standard research contract. The
University will be paid $168,150 in direct costs and $67,407 in indirect costs for
a two year project. The indirect cost amount reflects the University's full indirect cost rate.
3.   Professor Amidon's financial interest arises from his ownership of TSRL.
Proposed Subcontract between the University of Michigan and COSMic Co.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and
COSMic Co. Because the owner of COSMic Co., Alfred L. Nuttall, is also a University employee, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be COSMic Co. ("Company") and the Regents of
the University of Michigan.
2.   The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract. There are
no restrictions on publication or openness of the research.
The subcontract will cover partial salary costs for a research associate, instrument maker, and graduate student and equipment charges, all totaling $16,814
over a six-month period. Dr. Nuttall will supervise the project and act as project
director. Dr. Nuttall will not be reimbursed by the Company for his time on the
project as a University employee. No indirect cost will be charged since this is
an SBIR Phase I project.
3.   Dr. Nuttall is the president of the Company, serves without compensation, and
owns 100 percent of the Company.
Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan
and the Technical University in Munich, an Educational Institution in
Germany
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents approved a research subcontract between the University of Michigan and the


215




February Meeting, 1994


Technical University in Munich to complete a portion of a project fimded by a
grant from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute entitled "Evaluation of
Cardiac Autonomic Innervations by Positron Emission Tomography (PET)". Regent Baker abstained from voting due to a conflict of interest.
The original principal investigator of the project, Markus Schwaiger, has
since left the University of Michigan to accept a position with the Technical University in Munich. However, he remains a key collaborator and plans to continue
his participation through a subcontract issued by the National Institute of Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute. Because Dr. Schwaiger is an adjunct professor, without remuneration, at the University of Michigan, this arrangement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the subcontract will be the Technical University in Munich and the
Regents of the University of Michigan.
2.  The subcontract will obligate the Technical University in Munich to complete a
portion of the research project. The subcontract will cover work from June 1,
1993, through January 31, 1995, and will be in the amount of $110,687. It is expected that the agreement will be continued for an additional two years, at comparable funding levels, subject to continued funding from the National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute. The specific scope of work and detailed budget will
be set forth in the subcontract.
3.  Professor Schwaiger does not and will not receive a salary or other pecuniary
benefit from the University of Michigan during the life of the project.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities Report of Judicial
Activity
The Regents received a report of judicial activity under the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities for the period January 1, 1993, to February
1, 1994.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Vice President Hartford reported that a good deal of interest had been expressed in changing the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities, and
the statement is difficult to amend. Because of her desire to work with the interested parties in amending some of the language in the statement, she was changing her original recommendation that the Regents approve the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities as a permanent policy. She now was recommending that the policy be continued as an interim University policy until April
1995. Because the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities is a new policy, it is expected that amendments to change it will be proposed in the future.
Regents McGowan expressed her appreciation to Vice President Hartford
for her flexibility in accommodating the desires of students and others to retain
the policy as an interim policy for the time being. Regent McFee agreed that this
would allow an additional opportunity for the student body to have more input
into the amendment process, and she commended the constructive, supportive
manner in which students have sought to make modifications.


216




February Meeting, 1994


Regent Baker stated that he would vote against extending the policy as an
interim policy, as his position has not changed.
Regent Power moved to extend the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities as an interim policy until April 1995, during which time modifications will be sought and proposed. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it
was approved, with Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner,
and Waters in favor and Regent Baker opposed.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts,
and Agreements, FY 1993
Vice President Neal submitted a report of the implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and Agreements for Fiscal Year
1993.
Changes in Bylaws, Rules and Regulations of the Medical Staff
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved recommendations by the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board for changes in the Medical Staff Bylaws, Rules, and
Regulations.
Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, and on the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical staff
membership.
Sale of $12,000,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993
The Regents were informed of the sale of $12,000,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993 to Chemical Securities
Inc.
Executive Session Motion
Regent McGowan made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on February 18, 1994, in the Regents' Room, immediately
following the end of this meeting, for the purpose of consulting with
our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:55 am.,
after which the meeting continued in executive session. The next meeting will be


217




February Meeting, 1994


held on March 10 and 11, 1994. Regents' expenses for the month of January
1994 totalled $687.99.
Richard     nn dySetary


218




MARCH MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 10, 1994
The Regents met at 1:30 p.m. in the Music Room of the Henry Ford EstateFair Lane. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown,
McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy
was also present, as were Executive Vice President Womak, Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim Chancellor Kugler, and Chancellor Renick. Regent Waters and Provost Whitaker were absent; Associate Vice
President Holbrook attended in the place of Provost Whitaker. Regent Deitch arrived at about 2:25 p.m.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and thanked Chancellor
Renick for hosting the Regents' Meeting on the Dearborn campus. He also welcomed back Vice President Kennedy. He then recognized Regent Brown, who
made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on March 11, 1994, at 9:00 a.m., in the Regents' Room, for
the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Annual Report on Investments
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Norman Herbert, university treasurer and investment officer, Ms. Elizabeth Hokada, associate investment officer, and Ms. Maggie Blakelock, of Cambridge Associates, Inc., to present
the report on investments as of December 31, 1993. Executive Vice President
Womack observed that 1993 had been an outstanding year for the University's
Endowment Fund, with a 17.5 percent rate of return.
Mr. Herbert observed that all of the University's funds in 1993 had exceeded
the benchmarks that had been identified, and he gave details of the returns and
individual strategies that had been used for each of the funds. Mr. Herbert
observed that the long term goal for the endowment fund is to protect both the
purchasing power of the endowment principal as well as the stream of distributions that is provided for by the gift itself. In 1993, ten percentage points of real
value had been added to the portfolios of the various accounts in the endowment
fund, and on a ten-year basis, 2.4 percent per annum of value had been added to
each of the participating endowment accounts. He described the importance of
this result to the individual units with investments in the endowment fund.


219




March Meeting, 1994


Mr. Herbert acknowledged the contributions of both the Investment Advisory Committee and Cambridge Associates to the strong performance of the
Endowment Fund. He then introduced Ms. Blakelock, of Cambridge Associates,
Inc., to review the endowment strategy and performance and to introduce
proposed changes in the investment strategy for the University Investment Pool.
Ms. Blakelock referred to separately bound discussion materials from Cambridge Associates, Inc., in reviewing the endowment's strategy and performance.
She reviewed the University's current investment strategy and reported that the
University had achieved a number of its strategic goals with regard to asset allocation, common stock management, and fixed income management strategies.
She then outlined changes that would occur as the University pursued the next
steps in this strategy. Ms. Blakelock observed that the value of the endowment of
$911.8 million as of December 31, 1993 was up $227.5 million from December 31,
1992, and described specific asset allocation and performance factors associated
with that increase in value. She also presented data that compared the University's asset allocation and investment performance with that of other educational
institutions and reviewed a chart that showed trends in the University's investment performance over the past four years.
Ms. Blakelock, Mr. Herbert, and Executive Vice President Womack responded to questions and comments from the Regents about details of the report.
In response to a question from Regent Baker about the University's equity investments, Ms. Blakelock stated that the University intends to maintain its goal
of 70 percent in equity investments, but that the composition of the 70 percent
will change over time so as to have a more diversified portfolio. She and Mr.
Herbert explained that the strategy is to move towards a goal of 50 percent of the
equity investment in stocks and the balance in alternative assets, such as real
estate, oil and gas, and venture capital.
Regent Power commented on the historical significance of the fact that the
performance of all of the University's invested funds had exceeded their targets
for the calendar year 1993. He extended his compliments to Executive Vice President Womack, his staff, and Cambridge Associate, Inc., for this remarkable
performance.
University Investment Pool: Internal Bank Concept
Ms. Blakelock stated that she would be introducing the concept of the
"internal bank" to lay the framework for the specific investment proposal that
was being presented to the Regents as a discussion item. Referring to the handout from Cambridge Associates, Inc., Ms. Blakelock described the concept of the
internal bank, which invests residual cash from an institution's operating finds,
and makes distributions to "depositors" (departments) based on short-term
rates. The University would retain the difference between the actual total return
and the short-term rates paid to the depositors as a reserve to guarantee the
"depositors" no principal loss.
There followed extensive discussion about the internal bank concept. Mr.
Herbert observed that the intent is to implement the policy over a period of 5-10


220




March Meeting, 1994


years in order to be able to build a reserve so that participants in the University
Investment Pool can be assured that they will be able to take a dollar out for
every dollar deposited. Executive Vice President Womack pointed out that
another reason to implement the policy gradually is to dollar-cost average into
the various investment vehicles. This approach will help avoid a possibly negative
impact on the endowment fund.
In response to a question from Regent Power, the discussion shifted to the
distribution rate for the endowment fund. Executive Vice President Womack
pointed out that this topic is related to, but not a part of, the internal bank
concept. He stated that discussions have been held among his staff about the
need to reduce the payout rate for the endowment to less than the current 5.5
percent that was set in 1987. He and Mr. Herbert reported that the notion would
be to reduce the distribution rate over time, but emphasized that that decision is
unrelated to the internal bank decision and will be made at a later time.
Executive Vice President Womack responded to further questions firom the
Regents and noted that he intended to recommend adoption of the new investment strategy and distribution policy for the University Investment Pool at the
next meeting.
Regent Baker asked to receive information about historic rates of return on
various asset classes over the past 70-year period.
Executive Vice President Womack recognized the contributions of all of the
Regents who had attended meetings on investment strategy and worked diligently to exercise their oversight finction with regard to investments.
Real Estate Investment (Acacia Housing Fund III)
Executive Vice President Womack asked Ms. Blakelock to describe Acacia
Housing Fund III. She reported that this fund provides capital to home builders
to help them finance their finished lot inventory, and it provides historically high
rates of return for investors. She and Mr. Herbert then responded to questions
from the Regents. After learning that he represents one of the home builders
who participates in the fund, Regent Deitch disqualified himself from the
discussion.
Regent Power moved that $10 million of the University Endowment Fund
be committed to Acacia Housing Fund III, pending the general counsel's review
of the partnership agreement for legal acceptability. Regent Brown seconded the
motion. Regent Baker stated that he would be abstaining from the vote because
he was not persuaded at this time. The vote was then taken, and the motion was
approved, with Regents Brown, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner in favor,
and Regents Baker and Deitch abstaining.
Unversity of Michigan Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report
President Duderstadt next called on Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals, to present the UM Hospitals Comparative
Statistic Report for the fiscal year 1992-93. Mr. Forsyth gave a slide presentation


221




March Meeting, 1994


illustrating the Hospitals' financial performance compared to other hospitals, its
own five-year average, and the national average in terms of profitability, liquidity, capital structure, and patient activity, for both 1992-93 and the period
1988-1993.
The presentation demonstrated that the Hospitals' overall financial performance has been very favorable. Mr. Forsyth pointed out that the improvement in financial performance has occurred not because of increases in
admissions or clinic visits or room    rates; rather it is the result of costeffectiveness and management efficiency within the institution. He noted that
there are fewer full-time-equivalent employees now than there were several years
ago, and that the proportion of care-givers has increased in the face of a dramatic
decrease in the number and percentage of management appointments.
Mr. Forsyth reported that in a recent study the UM Hospitals had been
named one of the top one-hundred in the country and one of the top ten
academic health centers. These ratings, as well as a comparison of the Hospitals'
risk adjusted mortality ratio to that of the top ten academic hospitals in the country, are indicators of the quality of the institution.
Following some discussion, Regent Baker complimented the Hospitals management and staff on the excellent job they have done. He also raised the issue of
whether the UM Hospitals and other teaching hospitals have had a role in the
development of the national health care plan. Mr. Forsyth responded that this is
a major concern and is being addressed by leaders of these institutions.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Consideration of the minutes of the February 1993 meeting was
deferred until next month.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. Vice President
Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of
current research.
President Duderstadt reported on a proposal in Washington for a one-year
pause in indirect cost reimbursement for fiscal year 1995, which would mean
that institutions that receive additional federal government sponsored research
support for that year would not receive overhead support for those awards. He
and Vice President Neal reported on their efforts to educate the administration
on the importance of indirect cost reimbursement.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of
voluntary support.
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for  em ployee  m atching   gifts...................................................................................................................................................18,469
ARCO Transportation Company, Long Beach, California
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration.......... 15,000
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................150 000


222




March Meeting, 1994


AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for financial aid in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts....................... 14,420
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Associates Program        in the School of Business Administration............................................5,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m  atching    gifts................................................................................................................................................. 11,255
American Automobile Manufacturers' Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute...........................................233,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy..........................................................133,076
American Chemical Society, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy............................................................................................8,750
American Diabetes Foundation, Alexandria, Virginia
for  research  in  the  M edical School............................................................................................................................ 37,490
American Federation for Aging Research, New York, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry........................................................11,242
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy.....................................................................31,625
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts........................................................................................1,6.78
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Consortium for Research in Telecommunications Policy in the School of
B u siness  A dm inistration............................................................................................................................................................85,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Dean William Haber Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the Neil Staebler Fund in the Institute for Public Policy Studies, and for
support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and the Museum
of Art...........................................................55000..............................................................................................................................................55,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rt s...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 16 7
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan....................................................................................... 7,349
Louis G. Baldacci, Atherton, California
for unrestricted support in the Department of Athletics................................................................................20,000
Joseph H. Ballway, Jr., Evanston, Illinois
100 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock for unrestricted support of
th e   L aw   S ch ool......................................................................................................................................................................................5,3 69
Theodore and Mina Bargman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room               in the Law School Library........................25,000
Baxter International, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
Robert Hunt Berry, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Philip Morris Company common stock for research, Medical School.....................5,749
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Township
100 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for the Ralph B. Bodine
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................5,569
Boehringer Ingelheim, Ltd., Ridgefield, Connecticut
for  research  in  the  College  of Pharm   acy.......................................................................................................................25,000
Gordon B. Bonfield Trust, Grand Rapids
for the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................................................................................15,000
Borman's, Inc., Southfield
three State of Israel Bonds for the University of Michigan Hospital....................................................38,728
Boston Scientific Corporation, Watertown, Massachusetts
for internal medicine-cardiology support in the Medical School...................................................................7,500
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Henry Ford Estate
at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn...............................................................................................6,531
John D. Bunbury, Rockford
565 shares of Independent Bank Corporation common stock for scholarships
in the Department of Athletics..                                                                  11088......................................................................................................................................... 11,088
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
90 shares of Lockheed Corporation common stock and a cash gift of $3,000 for
scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for unrestricted support of the
L a w   S ch o o l................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8,8 16


223




March Meeting, 1994


Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada Group, General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship Program.......................................................................................6,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for support in the College of Engineering............................................................223,200
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................................................................................16,990
Alfred & Geraldine Cohn Trust, Lacey, Washington
for  financial aid  in  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................... 190,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
400 shares of General Motors Corporation and 400 shares of Mobil Corporation
common stock for the Ralph G. Conger Scholarship, the University Library, and
the  U niversity  M usical Society........................................................................................................................................44,225
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for  research  in   the  M edical School....................................................................................................................30 000
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
991 shares of various corporate common stock for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr.,
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering................ 21,887
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
700 shares of Altel Corporation common stock for the School of Business
Administration, the School of Education, the President's Fund, and the
Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.....................................................19,688
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research  in   the  M edical School........................................................................................................................................6,250
James R. Derusha, Marinette, Wisconsin
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Endowment
Fund   in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering................................................................................................................................... 10,000
EDS, Troy
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering.........................................8,825
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............15,000
Exxon Corporation, Irving, Texas
for the Human Resources Partnership Program School of Business Administration.............15,000
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship, the Benjamin D.
and Ann Jaffe Memorial Scholarship and other support in the Law School, and for
golf course restoration and other support in the Department of Athletics.........................................7,200
Flint Ink Corporation, Detroit
for  support  in  the  College  of  Engineering.......................................................................................................................6,400
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for survey research in the Institute for Social Research................................................................................. 73,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for Off-Campus Political Internships and the Washington Intern Program at the
U niversity   of M ichigan-D earborn..........................................................................................................................................5,000
Ford Motor Company, Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................................................................................. 24,320
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for engine research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering...............20,000
Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................... 15,000
Gloria Niemeyer Francke, Washington, D.C.
for the Gloria Niemeyer Francke Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit  of the  College  of  Pharm acy.................................................................................................................................... 10,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for  the  W illiam   A. Garrison  M em orial Scholarship................................................................................................8,117
Charles Gelman, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Gelman Sciences, Inc., common stock for research in the School
of  P u b lic   H ealth.................................................................................................................................................................................... 6 3 19
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for fellowships and scholarships, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................. 30,975
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for psychology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................17,289
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
12.48 shares of Harris Family Investment Company common stock for
unrestricted support of the Law School and for the Humanities Institute in
the  College  of Literature, Science, and   the  Arts.......................................................................................................7,998
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for  the  State  of  Israel  B onds  Fund...................................................................................................................................  10.000


224




March Meeting, 1994


Carl J. Herzog Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for dermatology support in the Medical School......60............................................................600
James & Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the James S. and Lynelle A. Holden Neonatal Research Laboratories in
the    M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................300,000
Jon R. Holt, Plymouth
for  the  C ollege  of  E ngineering................................................................................................................................................8,500
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...............................................................................................................................  7,500
IBM Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts..................................................................................................................................  100,893
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering............................................................................................................ 18,000
Stanley Imerman Memorial Foundation, Southfield
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room                     in the Law     School Library...................... 25,000
Verne G. Istock, Bloomfield Hills
500 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock for the C.A.M.P. Fund in the Alumni
Association and for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan...............................15,188
Jackier Family Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Welfare Federation, Detroit
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room                     in the Law     School Library....................... 10,000
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
for the William      R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law              School............................................................... 99,800
Jesse Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund................................................................................................................................. 200,000
Stanley E. Johnson, Jr., Fort Myers, Florida
100 shares of Premark International common stock for the Law                         School........................................8638
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for  em ployee     m atching     gifts....................................................................................................................................................,500
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education...............................................................................................................  28,669
James William Kideney Trust
for the James William         Kideney Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
U rb an    P lan n in g....................................................................................................................................................................................9,903
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
cash gift for the Michelle Kreager Ringsmuth and the Brad Kreager Donor
Pooled Income Funds for the ultimate benefit of the Division of Kinesiology.............................44,512
Konrad R. Kruger, Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................................................................................  10000
Ethel Lappin, Southfield
307 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock for orthodontics support in
the    School  of  D entistry............................................................................................................................................................ 12,414
Lucius N. Littauer Foundation, New York, New York
for the Littauer Judaica Book Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 10,000
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds in the Medical School.............................................................................26,772
Lois Shakarian Blackburn, Edward Beimfohr & David Lucas Trust, Bal Harbour, FL
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Armenian Studies Program..................................25,000
Elizabeth Lucas Estate
three $5,000 par value California municipal bonds for the Matters of the Heart
F und    in   the   M edical  C enter..................................................................................................................................................... 16,150
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business
A dm  inistration................................................................................................................................................................15,000
James A. Masterson, Casper, Wyoming
95 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock for geological sciences support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......5................................................................................,100
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
100 shares of Federal Express Corporation common stock for gifts pending
d esig n atio n.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 7 63 8
Mobil Corporation, Fairfax, Virginia
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m  inistratio n......................................00...........................................................................................................................................15,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School...................................................................................................................................90,000
North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology, Newton Upper Falls, MA
for   ir           i o-at-h in thl-p  -McAi l rhrnl.                                                               7 nWof


~LVA   w OC-4 %;LL LLA 4,lL =   &T VA k VCL...................................................................................


225




March Meeting, 1994


Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
two shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock for the Helen Olson Brower
Memorial Fellowship in Environmental Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................                                                               30..0................000
Mary Jo Brooks Peters, Ann Arbor
249 shares of Anglo American Gold Mines common stock for the C. Wilbur
Peters Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the C.A.M.P.
Building Fund in the Alumni Association, and the Elbel Club/Marching Band
Fund     in   the   School of M usic...................................................................................................................................... 11,579
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for health services management and policy support in the School of
Public Health....................325....................................31200
Duncan Olser Poth, San Antonio, Texas
for the Udo J. Wile-Duncan O. Poth Endowment in the Medical School......................................50,000
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
160 shares of Norfolk Southern Company common stock for the William
Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration, for
scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
scholarships   in  the  Departm ent of Athletics.......................................................................................................... 10,960
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
131 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for history of art
fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................... 6,337
Research Fund of American Ontological Society, Davis, California
for  research   in   the  M edical School........................................................................................................................................5,004
Ride for Kids Foundation, Inc., Doraville, Georgia
for pediatric brain tumor research in the Medical School..............................................................................23,391
Rockwell International, Seal Beach, California
for  em ployee  m atching   gifts.................................................................................................................................................. 10,210
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen Ross Professorship in Real Estate in the School of
B usiness  A dm inistration.........................................................................................................................................................100,000
Joseph B. Rounds, Buffalo, New York
788.644 shares of the Investment Company of America Mutual Fund for the
Joseph B. Rounds Fund for Excellence in Librarianship in the School of
Inform  ation   and  Library  Studies........................................................................................................................................ 15,000
Albert G. & Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment in the Institute of Gerontology...............................................10,000
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for  research   in  the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................25,000
Simmons Foundation, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................................................................. 5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School................ 8,939
Harriet Oliver Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
cash gift for the Smith Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
and    H ill A uditorium..................................................................................................................................................................... 99 618
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret M. and Herman E. Sokol Faculty Award in the Horace H.
Rackham      School of G raduate  Studies....................................................................................................................... 170,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................23,220
James C. Stanley, Ann Arbor
6,800 shares of BioInterface common stock for the DeWeese Student Education
Fund, and the Frederick A. Coller Research Fellowship in the Medical School,
and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................................................................... 39,998
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the  Scottish  Rite  Funds  in  the  M edical School.................................................................................................. 8,581
Tanabe Seiyaku Company, Osaka, Japan
for  geriatrics  research  in  the  M edical School............................................................................................................ 76,000
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for  support  in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................................................................................25,804
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G radu ate   S tu dies................................................................................................................................................................................8,377


226




March Meeting, 1994


John F. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering, School of Music, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, Hill Auditorium, Museum of Art, Kelsey Museum,
and   the   U niversity   L ibrary..................................................................................................................................................... 12,600
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................................... 12,500
Hans Weichsel, Fort Worth, Texas
100 shares of Textron, Inc., common stock for aerospace gifts, College of
Engineering................................................................................................................................................................................  5,875
R. J. Williams, Bloomfield Hills
500 shares of Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing common stock for the
R. Jamison Williams Professorship in the College of Engineering..........................................................55,125
Ferdinand B. Zienty, St. Louis, Missouri
cash gift for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Fund to participate in the University of
Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of
Pharmacy and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................................................... 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Ann Arbor Street Art Fair, Inc., Ann Arbor
the original art for the 1993 Art Fair poster by Chris Roberts-Antieau for the University of
Michigan Hospitals
Mr. and Mrs. W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor
six 19th century albumen print photographs: Fratelli Alinari's "Siena Cathedral," "Palazzo
Vecchio," and "Pitti Palace"; F. J. Haynes' "Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone, from the
Brink;" F. E. North's "Barrance de Metlac;" and Giacomo Brogi's "Veduta dei Ponti, Florence"
- for the Museum of Art
Douglas S. Bressler, Hayward, California
a dental articulator and pantograph for the School of Dentistry
Duane Norman Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
W. C. Handy fair copy of "St. Louis Blues," ca. 1939; Caleb Cushing's A.L.S., Washington, D. C.,
April 22, 1854, on the role of England; Thomas Trueblood's typed manuscript about Lincoln,
February 27, 1944; and the Buck-Fessenden family correspondence of 1838-1850 for the
Clements Library
Henry E. Ebel, Jr., Canton
complete collections of the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry and the Compendium of the
American Equilibration Society and the 1955-90 issues of the Journal of the American Dental
Association for the School of Dentistry
Richard S. Goldberg, Westport, Connecticut
a Keith Haring screenprint, entitled: "Fertility Series" (1983) for the Museum of Art
Anne and John Knott, Ann Arbor
an oak buffet and a carved walnut chest for the Michigan Journalism Fellows ProgramWallace House
Paul Laughlin, Ann Arbor
a photograph by Brett Weston, "Mud Cracks," gelatin silver print for the Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon Ross, Birmingham
two Kuba textile squares, dyed and woven raffia, for the Museum of Art
Chuck Smith, North Branch
fossil mastodon bones for the Museum of Paleontology
Richard M. Spurgeon, Southfield
two monotypes by David Chamberlain for the Museum of Art
Carey Walker Foundation, Fort Gratiot
four paintings by Pablo Picasso: "Two Girls Reading" (1934) oil on canvas, "Young
Woman with Mandolin" (1932) oil on board, "Portrait of Francoise "(1949) oil on canvas,
and "Bullfight" (1934); and Juan Gris' "Seated Harlequin" (1923) oil on canvas - for the
Museum of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Robert L. Agle, Jr., Ann Arbor                Terry Dickey, Allen Park
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor                   Ivan F. Duff, Ann Arbor
Albert J. Coudron, Ypsilanti                  Donna K. Fry-Welch, Flint
William H. Danforth III, Attica               Daniel R. Fusfeld, Ann Arbor
John C. Dann, Dexter                          Albert E. Gallup, Ann Arbor


227




March Meeting, 1994


Robert S. Gazall, Flint                  Charles A. Ritter, Ann Arbor
Roger Grekin, Ann Arbor                  Mrs. Robert S. Ross, Philadelphia,
Clare Harding, Ann Arbor                      Pennsylvania
William J. Hennessey, Ann Arbor          Pam Schutz, Ann Arbor
Jackson Rehabilitation, Jackson          Clifford G. Sheldon, Ann Arbor
Jehan Jondy, Flint                       Johanne E. Smith, Ann Arbor
Jane Langton, Lincoln, Massachusetts     Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
Sandra E. Loyer, Ann Arbor               Pauline Walters, Ann Arbor
Pat Oldenkamp, Saline                    Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
Richard A. Pohrt, Flint                  Rowena M. Wilhelm, Ann Arbor
Jacob M. Price, Ann Arbor                Beth Winsten, Ann Arbor
Robert H. Reider, Farmington Hills       Victor K. Wong, Ann Arbor
John Reiser III, Ypsilanti
Personnel Actions. Associate Vice President Holbrook submitted personnel actions for approval. President Duderstadt highlighted the recommendation
for the appointment of Rhetaugh Dumas as vice provost for health affairs. Regent Deitch expressed his pleasure at the appointment of Dr. Laurence Baker as
professor of internal medicine.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Laurence H. Baker, D.O., Professor of Internal Medicine, May 1, 1994
Robert A. Zucker, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, April 1, 1994
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective March 1, 1994
John A Jacquez, Professor Emeritus of Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Biostatistics,
reappointed to active status, one-year term,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
John R. Chamberlin, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, and Associate
Dean for Academic Appointments, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Communication one-year term, July 1, 1994
Rhetaugh G. Dumas, from Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Dean, School of Nursing, to
Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and Vice Provost for Health Affairs,
three-year term, July 1, 1994
Seigo Izumo, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, March 1, 1994
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Nesha Haniff Lecturer in Afroamerican and African Studies and Women's Studies, leave without
salary extended, January 1-December 31, 1994


228




March Meeting, 1994


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective April 1, 1994
Jeffrey A. Alexander, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, also
appointed the Richard Carl Jelinek Professor in Health Services Management and Policy
Establishment of Additional Distinguished University Professorships. Because of the gradual increase in the size of the faculty over the years
and the ongoing need to recognize outstanding faculty, the Regents approved the
establishment of six additional distinguished University professorships, effective
April 1, 1994.
The following committee appointment was submitted for approval:
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Timothy Leuliette, reappointment, four-year term ending January 31, 1998
Personnel Reports. Associate Vice President Holbrook submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Diann E. Brei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Namdoo Moon, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics
Jambunatha Sethuraman, Ph.D. Lecturer II in Physics
Vadim Smelyansldy, Dipl Candidate, Lecturer II in Physics
Medical School
Sara E. Hultsch-Smith, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, January 17, 1994
Martin J. Stevens, M.B.B.Ch., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, February 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Art
John B. Klausmeyer from Lecturer in Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
Medical School, to Lecturer in Art, School of Art, September 1, 1993
Medical School
Patricia S. Klarr, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, January 1,
1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Michael J. Schroeder, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of History, March 1, 1994


229




March Meeting, 1994


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Kingsbury Marzolf, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1994
College of Engineering
Walter R. Debler, Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Maxwell K. Owusu, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
1994
Yukio Tomozawa, Professor of Physics, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Stephen J. Tonsor, Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1993 -May 31, 1994
Thomas C. Will, Lecturer in Biology, leave without salary, January 15-May 31, 1994
Henry T. Wright, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -April 30, 1994
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Law School
James J. White, Robert A. Sullivan Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994 (previously reported as leave without salary)
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Murray H. Miller, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, extended sick
leave, January 22-April 30, 1993 (previously reported as sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1993)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED
TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
Charles W. Kauffman, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure (previously
reported as leave without salary, February 1-May 31, 1994)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Daniel T. Snyder, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, January 27, 1994
College of Literature Science, and the Arts
Larry Selinker, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, December 31, 1993
Medical School
Jordan K. Cohen, Lecturer in Radiology, January 31, 1994
Bernard A Fox, Instructor in Surgery, January 10, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Russell A Schenck, Assistant Professor of Biology, August 31, 1993


230




March Meeting, 1994


Retirement Memoirs. Associate Vice President Holbrook submitted the
following retirement memoir:
Vern Carroll, professor of anthropology, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1993, after a most productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
Professor Carroll earned a B.A degree from Yale University in 1959, a second B.A degree from Cambridge University in 1961, M.A. degrees from Yale in
1962 and Cambridge in 1966, and a Ph.D. degree from the University of Chicago
in 1966. He served on the faculty of the University of Washington from 1966-72,
and came to the University of Michigan in 1972 as an associate professor of anthropology. At that time, he had an international reputation, both as a leading
comparativist of the languages, societies, cultures, and populations of the South
Pacific, and as an innovator in anthropological fieldwork methodologies. He was
promoted to professor of anthropology in 1975.
Within the Department of Anthropology, Professor Carroll helped to extend
the range of the department's upper-division undergraduate course offerings into
emerging areas of anthropological endeavor, especially the anthropology of the
mind, and methods of cultural analysis. He was instrumental in developing a
broad spectrum of research seminars for advanced undergraduates and an
award-winning honors program in cultural anthropology, and played a major
role in undergraduate counseling and the development of the upper-division
writing program. Undergraduate students also benefited from Professor Carroll's
six years of service (five as chair) on the LSA joint Student Faculty Policy Committee, and his participation in such interdisciplinary programs as South and
Southeast Asian Studies, American culture, the English Composition Board, and
comparative literature. In all of these activities, he brought anthropological perspectives to a large cross-section of our most able students in diverse departments, many of whom continue to express appreciation for his efforts.
In 1967, Professor Carroll founded, and thereafter served in each of the officer positions of, the Association for Social Anthropology in Oceania, now the major professional organization for anthropology in Oceania He also authored and
edited a number of publications and supervised coordinated research and comparative studies in this area.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service
by naming Vern Carroll professor emeritus of anthropology.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the consent agenda as listed above.
Honorary Degrees
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a recommendation that honorary degrees be awarded to
the following individuals: Dennis W. Archer, David Broder, Father William Cunningham, Charles T. Fisher III, Eleanor Josaitis, L. William Seidman, Horace L.


231




March Meeting, 1994


Sheffield, and Don Herbert (UM-Dearborn). President Duderstadt announced
that these individuals will all be awarded their honorary degrees at the Spring
1994 Commencement exercises.
Audit Report: The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund
for Years Ended December 31, 1993 and 1992
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
voted unanimously to accept the audit report of the University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund for the Years Ended December 31, 1993 and 1992.
Appointment of Auditors for 1993-94
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Ernst & Young as auditors for
1993-94.
Reassignment of Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (Gary J.
Nabel, Elizabeth G. Nabel, and Stephen L. Eck)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, all seven Regents present unanimously approved reassignment of the intellectual property
"Double-Stranded Phosphorothioate NF-kB Inhibitors" (UM File No. 810) to the
inventors, Gary J. Nabel, Elizabeth G. Nabel, and Stephen L. Eck. Because the
inventors are also University employees, this arrangement falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement(s) will be the University of Michigan and
Gary J. Nabel, M.D., Elizabeth G. Nabel, M.D., and Stephen L. Eck.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference into
this action request.
Reassignment of Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (Gary J.
Nabel)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, all seven Regents present unanimously approved reassignment of the intellectual property
"Introduction of HIV Protective Genes into T Cells using Particle-mediated Gene
Transfer" (UM File No. 865) to the inventor, Gary J. Nabel. Because Dr. Nabel is
also a University employee, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement(s) will be the University of Michigan and
Gary J. Nabel, M.D.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference into
this action request.


232




March Meeting, 1994


Public Comments
No individuals had signed up to address the Regents this month.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:00 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on April 14 and 15, 1994. Regents' expenses for the
month of February 1994 totalled $545.15.
Richard L. enne    Sec


233




APRIL MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 14, 1994
The Regents met at 2:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy was also present, as were Provost
Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, and Chancellor Renick Regent Varner and Interim
Chancellor Kugler were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Deitch, who made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Sections 8(d), 8(f), and 8(h) of the Open Meetings
Act, as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents
meet in closed session at 2:15 p.m. on April 14, 1994, in the Regents'
Room, for the following purposes: to consider the purchase or lease
of real property [Sec. 8(d)]; to review the specific contents of
applications for employment for which the candidates have requested
confidentiality [Sec. 8(f)]; and to consider material exempt from
discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion
from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting then continued in executive session.
Public Comments
The Regents assembled at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union, and heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Alice Hamele, citizen, on problems with her dental work; Richard A
Campbell, faculty member, on the Department of Communication; Craig Greenberg, immediate past president of Michigan Student Assembly, on a proposal for
student representation on the Board of Regents; Julie Neenan, president of
Michigan Student Assembly, introducing herself and her plans for MSA; Brian
Kight, student, on problems with the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities; and Robert Darden, coach of the men's gymnastics team, on the current
status of the men's gymnastics team.
At 4:40 p.m., following Public Comments, the Regents returned to the Regents' Room to continue meeting in executive session.


235




April Meeting, 1994


Friday, April 15, 1994
The Regents met at 9:15 am. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Whitaker, and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as were Vice Presidents Cosovich,
Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim  Chancellor Kugler, and Chancellor
Renick. Regent Varner was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Provost
Whitaker to present the first item of business.
Reorganization of Academic/Instructional Departments Within the
School of Public Health
Provost Whitaker reported that he had appointed a School of Public Health
review committee that had been charged with a) examining the mission of the
school and recommending revisions of the mission if any were indicated by the
examination; b) identifying salient issues in the field of public health and evaluating the school's strengths and limitations in addressing those issues; c) assessing the productivity of the school relative to that of other top-ranked schools of
public health and to other schools and colleges within the University; and d) developing principles and criteria for changes that would enhance the school's ability to achieve its mission.
Provost Whitaker described the makeup of the committee and the process
the committee had undergone in carrying out its work. He reported that the committee had recommended consolidating the school's eight departments into five.
He introduced Richard Cornell, interim dean of the School of Public Health, and
Ken Warner and Noreen Clark, co-chairs of the review committee and chairs of
departments in the School of Public Health.
Regent McFee complimented the committee and Provost Whitaker about
how the review was conducted, noting that the process that had been followed
made her very comfortable in being able to support the reorganization. Regent
Power expressed agreement with Regent McFee's sentiments,
Professors Cornell, Clark, and Warner commented on the review process
and observed that the review provided an opportunity for the school to meet the
challenges posed by the national debate on health care reform. They also reported that the review had been a good experience for all involved, and that there
is a mandate for change at the School of Public Health. The reorganization would
result in a consolidation of eight units into five, with only one of the current departments remaining untouched.
Following the discussion, Regent McFee moved that the School of Public
Health faculty be consolidated into the five core departments of biostatistics, environmental and industrial health, epidemiology, health behavior and health education, and health management and policy. Regent Power seconded the motion,
and it was approved unanimously.


236




April Meeting, 1994


North Campus Bell Tower
Provost Whitaker announced that Ann Lurie, widow of UM alumnus Robert
H. Lurie, was the person who had donated $12 million for construction of a bell
tower on North Campus in memory of her late husband, and that this was the
second largest gift in the history of the University. He described Mr. Lurie's career as a student at the University and later as a successful entrepreneur, and
President Duderstadt recalled having had the privilege of working with Mr. Lurie
when he was serving as dean of the College of Engineering. Regent Deitch complimented Provost Whitaker and others who had been involved in developing this
gift.
Provost Whitaker called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, to describe
the project. Mr. Mayer noted that the bell tower had been designed by noted architect and University of Michigan alumnus Charles Moore, and that this project
represents the last architectural commission he completed before he died earlier
this year. Mr. Mayer described the site for the building and reported that it had
been chosen in consultation with the University's planning consultants, Johnson
Johnson & Roy/inc. He then displayed an architectural model of the proposed
bell tower and showed renderings illustrating how it would look from various locations on the North Campus. It was noted that the project was scheduled to be
completed late in 1995, and Ms. Margo Halsted, university carillonneur, who was
in the audience, commented that an original composition would be commissioned
to commemorate the occasion.
Following the presentation, Regent McGowan moved approval of the site
and design for the North Campus bell tower. Regent Power seconded the motion,
and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Brown, the
Regents unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of February 1994.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of March 1994.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and noncompetitive
purchases over $2,000 from single sources. He commented on the significant correction that had occurred in the market over the past two months. Regent Baker
expressed concerns about the University's portfolios with respect to the current
volatility of the market and noted that the risks might be more substantial than
anticipated. Executive Vice President Womack expressed his belief that the University's risks are less substantial now because of its more diversified exposure as
well as the strong state of the economy.
Vice President Neal submitted reports on projects established and summaries of a selection of current research.


237




April Meeting, 1994


Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of voluntary support.
AMOCO Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan LeaderShape Institute in the College of Engineering............................................. 10,000
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Pharmacy and for employee matching gifts...........................................8,200
Ahmanson Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the Dean's Merit Scholarship Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts...................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Emma Alexander Estate
for the Emma Alexander Memorial Fund in the History of Art, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the John Alexander Distinguished
Professorship    in  the  M edical School............................................................................................................................. 400,000
American Association of Orthodontists, St. Louis, Missouri
for  research    in  the  School of D entistry......................................................................................................................... 15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical
School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Biophysics Research Division........................................ 156,654
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for  research    in   the   M edical  School......................................................................................................................................7,137
Ameritech, Detroit
for the Engineering Education and Practice and Management Education
Campaigns at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and for employee
m atch in g   gifts.....................................................................................................................................................................................65 580
Vera & Clement Arrison Foundation, Williamsville, New York
for the Campaign for Michigan in the College of Engineering....................................................................20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................................................8,16 7
Lily Auchincloss, New York, New York
for the Renaissance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham              School of Graduate Studies..................50,000
Automobile Club of Michigan, Auto Club Insurance Association, Dearborn
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business
Administration and for the Management Education Campaign at the
U niversity    of M ichigan-D earborn....................................................................................................................................... 11,000
C. R. Bard, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah
for  research    in   the  M edical School...................................................................................................................................40,000
Cheryl M. Baumgartner, Moraga, California
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics
and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................................5,500
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship.........................................................................................35,971
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
for the Roger A. Berg, M.D., Radiology Endowment in the Medical School.....................................33,000
Dennis M. Briggs, Rochester Hills
for the Donald W. Briggs Memorial Scholarship.................................................................................................... 18,750
Doris C. Briggs, Findlay, Ohio
for the Donald W. Briggs Memorial Scholarship.................................................................................................. 18,750
Max D. Briggs, Findlay, Ohio
for the Donald W. Briggs Memorial Scholarship..................................................................................................18,750
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program       in the School of Business Administration...................................................8,000
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for the tennis facility in the Department of Athletics..........................................................................................5,000
Cancer Research Institute, New York, New York
for  research    in   the   M edical School.................................................................................................................................... 10 000
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., New York, New York
for the Daniel B. Burke Fellowship in the Michigan Journalism Fellows
Program, the Horace H. Rackham           School of Graduate Studies........................................................250,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Chrysler Corporation Minority and Women Scholarships Program,
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering..............................................................24,500
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library Development Fund............................................................20,000


238




April Meeting, 1994


Merle Raine Clapp Trust
3,522 shares of various corporate common stock for the Merle Raine Sangster
Student     L oan     F und..................................................................................................................................................................119,8 70
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................................ 17,237
Lawrence Daigle Estate
for discretionary support in the College of Engineering................................................................................. 15,000
Dorene Derhodes, Farmington Hills
for the Donald W. Briggs Memorial Scholarship.................................................................................................. 18,750
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School........................................2................................................................  16,250
Lucille H. Dewhirst Estate
for the Robert G. Rodkey Fellowship and Scholarship Fund in the School of
Business Administration in memory of Gerald F. Dewhirst........................................................................ 25,000
John H. DeYoung, Woodstown, New Jersey
100 shares of Motorola common stock for the Class of 1936 Fund in the College
of  E ngin  eerin  g............................................................................................................................................................................... 10,28 1
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland Division, Midland
for neurobiology and aging research in the School of Public Health.....................................................85,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Internship Fund in the School of Business
Administration and for support in the College of Engineering and at the University
of  M ichigan-D     earborn..................640..................................................................................................................................................9,640
Ford Motor Company, Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and for the Museum
of  A rt  Special   E xhibitions     F und........................................................................................................................................... 76,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts....................................................................................................................................................98,466
Fruehauf Foundation, St. Clair Shores
for the Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship, School of Business Administration........................ 150,000
J. Alan Galbraith, Washington, D.C.
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law                       School....................................................................................25,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,100
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the School of Business
Administration and for the Computer-Aided Engineering Network, the Minority
Program, and the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering............................................... 150,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health and at the University of
M  ich igan-D    earborn.......................................................................................................................................................................52,218
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics................................................................................10,000
Lucy E. W. Hamilton, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schools of Medicine and Music and the Clements Library, Kelsey Museum,
Michigan Historical Collections, Museum                    of Art, and University Musical Society.......................5,039
Mrs. Firman H. Hass, West Bloomfield
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration in memory
of  M ilton    Jay   D rak e...........................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for Minority and Female Program                  support in the College of Engineering..........................................6,000
John M. Jenks, Leawood, Kansas
950 shares of Fidelity Stock Fund for the John M. Jenks Graduate Scholarship
in the School of Business Administration.................................................................................................................... 16,350
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Group, Plymouth
for the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration................................................ 20,000
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering and for
the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane................................................................................................................................23,030
James B. Lesser, West Bloomfield
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the C.A.M.P. Building Fund in the Alumni Association..............................................................................6,700
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research       in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 8,750
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Eli Lilly Education Fund in the Medical School...................................................................................30,000


239




April Meeting, 1994


Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning.............................................................
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education...................................................................................  199,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................13,750
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts......................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,500
Sydney L. Mayer, Armonk, New York
for the Mayer-Oriel Exchange Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Clements Library in memory of Eugene Power...........................................5,500
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Institute of Gerontology............................................................................................................30,949
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jeffrey H. and Marsha Miro Scholarship Endowment in the Law School.......................50,000
James Morgan Estate
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering............................................................... 30,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Philip Morris Campus Tolerance for Diversity Program Fund in the
S chool  of  E du cation........................................................................................................................................................................55,32 1
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the
M  ed ical  S ch ool.................................................................................................................................................................................... 59 93 6
NBD Bank, Detroit
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................6,845
National Geographic Society, Washington, D.C.
for anthropology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................23,450
National Kidney Foundation, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 9,300
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School...................................................................................................7,500
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund and other support in the
College   of  Literature, Science, and      the  Arts.................................................................................................................5,000
O'Neal Construction, Inc., Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity   M usical  Society........................................................................................................................................ 7,500
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 18,862
Donald E. & JoAnne Petersen Foundation, Birmingham
for research in the Medical School in memory of Mary Ellen Leonard Kremidas......................10,500
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew    Funds in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................................... 100,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for  the  Pfizer  Fellow  ship  in  Pharm  aceutics...............................................................................................................19,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Alumni Scholarship Fund and for the Michigan
LeaderShape Institute and the Minority Engineering Program in the College
of Engineering...................................................................................................................................................................................25,500
Raymond B. Robins, Santa Barbara, California
400 shares of Nuveen California common stock for the Dr. Raymond and
Barbara Robins Student Aid Fund in the School of Dentistry.......................................................................6,600
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in  the  School of Social W    ork................................................................................................................. 125,000
Edward I. Schalon, Naples, Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................ 16,188
Eloise H. Sheldon Estate
for the Eloise H. Sheldon Scholarship Endowment in the School of Nursing................................29,106
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for physics and geology-mineralogy support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for naval architecture support in the College of Engineering.......................... 30,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the  School of Education......................................................................................................................... 50,000
Spicer Axle Division of Dana Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for engineering research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.........................................................22,500


240




April Meeting, 1994


Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration........................................7,500
Student Alumni Council, Ann Arbor
for Student Alumni Council Scholarships and the Alumni Fund for Student Aid
in the Alumni Association.................................................................................................20,304
Syntex (U.SA.), Inc., Palo Alto, California
for the Syntex Graduate Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy................15,000
TG Technical Center (U.S.A.) Corporation, Madison Heights
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................................ 19,600
Tandy Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................8,000
Texaco, Inc., White Plains, New York
for the Robert V. Roosa Graduate Student Support Fund in Economics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................500,000
Harold & Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for student aid in the School of Education............................................................................................50,000
Daniel W. Vittum, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School...........................................................................20,000
Philip L. Wagner Estate
for   the   Philip   L. W agner  Fund..................................................................................................................................... 272,532
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health and for employee matching gifts...............................46,108
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of Great Lakes Bancorp common stock for the Sports Service
Building  in   the  D epartm ent  of A thletics.......................................................................................................................45,250
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship Endowment in the Department
o f  A th le tics.............................................................................................................................................................................................10 0 00
Frank T. Westover, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for the Elizabeth V. Gauss & Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship Endowment
in  the  School of Business  Adm inistration.................................................................................................................... 10,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Elizabeth V. Gauss & Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship Endowment
in   the  School of Business  A dm inistration.................................................................................................................... 15,000
Clayton E. Wilhite, New Canaan, Connecticut
420 shares of Weiss, Peck & Greer Tutor Mutual Fund and cash gift of $2,000
for the International Studies Discretionary Fund and the Humanities Institute
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Stanley S. Kemp
Scholarship  in  the  Division  of Kinesiology................................................................................................................. 11,767
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for the Judaic Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................7,500
Gertrude Wolfram, Bloomfield Hills
a Metropolitan Life Annuity for the William Gibson Wolfram Scholarship in
th e   L aw   S ch ool...............................................................................................................................................................................6 0,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Barry University Collection, Miami Shores, Florida
two silver print photographs by Stephen Althouse: "Piano Keys" and "Bootweight II" for the
Museum of Art
Albert C. Cain, Ann Arbor
a collection of books and monographs on child development for the Department of Psychology
Marian and Charles Cares, Ann Arbor
a gift certificate for the Kelsey Museum
GW Associates, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
communications software for the Sun Network in the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
Mrs. K F. Inderfurth, New York, New York
R. V. Roosa's personal library of economics books for the Sumner and Laura Foster Library in
the Department of Economics
Keith and Kay Jensen, Ann Arbor
a gift certificate for the Kelsey Museum
Aaron Kramer, Oakdale, New York
a literary manuscript collection (1940-1993) consisting of four linear feet of correspondence and
other works from writers, composers, artists, and scholars


241




April Meeting, 1994


Amber and Chris Litwin, Riverview
an Invacare child's wheelchair with linear seating system for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
QED Groundwater Specialists, Ann Arbor
a Well Wizard Dedicated Ground Water Sampling system for the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:


Amer's Mediterranean Deli, Ann Arbor
Fadwa Abeid, Dearborn
Arbor Farms Market, Ann Arbor
Back Alley Gourmet, Ann Arbor
D. R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor
Barnes & Noble Bookstore, Ann Arbor
Barclay Gallery, Ann Arbor
Borders Book Shop, Inc., Ann Arbor
Gilbert E. Bursley, Sanibel, Florida
Mrs. Gilbert E. Bursley, Sanibel, Florida
Chelsea Flower Shop, Ann Arbor
China Garden Restaurant, Ann Arbor
Jaehwa Choi, Ann Arbor
Conlin-Faber Travel, Ann Arbor
John C. Dann, Dexter
Dexter Mill, Dexter
Dough Boys Bakery, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor
Thomas L. Dickinson, Ann Arbor
Keith Edwards, Mount Pleasant
Sherrill Toennes Filter, Albuquerque, New
Mexico
Thomas Forshee Antiques, Chelsea
Fraleighs Landscape Nursery, Ann Arbor
Gandy Dancer Restaurant, Ann Arbor
Great Harvest Bread Company, Ann Arbor
James E. Harris, Ann Arbor
Linda J. Herrick, Tecumseh
Jacobson's Beauty Salon, Ann Arbor
Pat Jarosz, Troy
Martha R. Keller, Ann Arbor
Raymond C. Kelly, Ann Arbor
David W. Larzelere, Flint
John Leidy Shop, Inc., Ann Arbor
Loomis Cheese Company, Ann Arbor
Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Metzgers German Restaurant, Ann Arbor


Michigan Theater Foundation, Ann Arbor
James N. Morgan, Ann Arbor
0. & W., Inc., Wholesale Beer & Wine, Ann Arbor
Sherry B. Ortner, Ann Arbor
Purple Rose Theatre, Chelsea
Rave Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor
Stephen J. Rogers, Ann Arbor
SKR Classical Division of Schoolkids, Ann Arbor
Lynne Alison Schepartz, Tucson, Arizona
Selo/Shevel Gallery Division of Cynthia Shevel,
Ann Arbor
Mike Skinner, Dearborn
Walter M. Spink, Ann Arbor
Chester G. Starr, Ann Arbor
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Wystan A. Stevens, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Edward D. Surovell, Ann Arbor
Sweet Lorraine's Cafe & Bar, Ann Arbor
Margaret Tanney, Eastpointe
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
The Common Grill, Chelsea
S. A. and M. K. Urban Jewelers, Ann Arbor
VanBoven, Inc., Ann Arbor
Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
Alain L. Verbeke, Leuven, Belgium
Whole Foods Market, Ann Arbor
Marcia Y. Watkins, Flint
Weber's, Inc., Ann Arbor
Doug White, Ann Arbor
Donald L. Wilcox, Ann Arbor
William C. Wood, Chicago, Illinois
Chia-Shun Yih, Ann Arbor
Zingerman's Delicatessen, Inc., Ann Arbor


Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Jonathan S. Bromberg, M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, July 1, 1994
Igor Kriz, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics


242




April Meeting, 1994


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994
Kalyan Raman, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Marketing, UM-Flint, three-year term
Marina v. N. Whitman, Ph.D., Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, and Professor of Public Policy, Institute of Public Policy Studies,
five-year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Frances E. Bull, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, July 1, 1994
George R. DeMuth, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, March 15-June 30, 1994
Ivan F. Duff, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, January 1, 1994
Thomas J. Garbaty, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to
active status, fall term
Lyall H. Powers, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to active
status, fall term
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, two year term,
July 1, 1993
William S. Smith, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, one-year term,
March 1, 1994
Warren H. Wagner, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, Curator Emeritus of Pteridophytes, and
Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, eight-month term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Mary A. Carroll, Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without
tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Chemistry, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retroactive from September 1, 1992
Paul Danos, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, Arthur Anderson Professor of Accounting,
and Senior Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, also appointed Director,
Division of Research, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1999
Robert A. Weisbuch, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure, and Chair, Department of English Language and Literature, also
appointed Associate Vice President for Research, three year and two month term, May 1,
1994; and, from Associate Vice President for Research, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
English Language and Literature, to Associate Vice President for Research, Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Dean for Faculty Programs, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, three year term, July 1, 1994
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Francis S. Collins, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure, government service leave extended, April 4 1994-April 3, 1995
Janet L. Kuhn, Assistant Professor of Surgery, personal leave extended, July 1-August 31, 1994


243




April Meeting, 1994


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Susan M. Ager, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, March 14-April 7, 1994
Lisa B. Baker, from Director of Public Affairs to Associate Vice President for University
Relations, April 15, 1994
Victor L. Bernard, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, and the Price Waterhouse Professor of
Accounting, appointment to the Price Waterhouse Professor of Accounting extended,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1999
Macdonald Dick II, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, also
appointed the Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, seven year
term, April 15, 1994
Rhetaugh G. Dumas, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Dean, School of Nursing, also
appointed the Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, five-year term,
Juy 1, 1994
Phoebe C. Ellsworth, Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed the Kirkland &
Ellis Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, five-year term, May 1, 1994
Bruce W. Frier, Professor of Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, also appointed the Henry King Ransom
Professor of Law, Law School, five-year term, May 1, 1994
David Ginsburg, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, also appointed the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor in Medicine,
five-year term, July 1, 1994
Eugene A Imhoff, Jr., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, and Ernst & Young Professor
of Accounting, appointment as Ernst & Young Professor of Accounting extended,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1999
E. Han Kim, Professor of Finance, with tenure, and Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business
Administration, appointment as Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business Administration
extended, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1999
Gary J. Lewis, Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), also appointed the Donald R. Shepherd
Assistant Professor of Conducting, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1997
Charles S. Liebman, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, four-month
term, September 1, 1994
John B. Lowe, Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, also appointed the
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor in Medicine, five-year term, July 1, 1994
Dan Sperber, The James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence, fall term,
September 1, 1994
Frank C. Williams, Jr., from Director of Strategic Planning to Associate Vice President for
University Relations, April 15, 1994
Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship. The Regents approved
the establishment of the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship in the
School of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1994.
Robert C. Kelsch Collegiate Professorship in Pediatric
Nephrology. The Regents approved the establishment of the Robert C. Kelsch
Collegiate Professorship in Pediatric Nephrology in the Medical School, effective
September 1, 1994.
Leonard J. Savage Professorship in Statistics. The Regents approved the establishment of the Leonard J. Savage Professorship in Statistics in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective May 1, 1994.


244




April Meeting, 1994


The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Ronald Gibala, four-year term ending June 30, 1998, vice Glenn Knoll, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Philip J. Hanlon, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Morton Brown, term expired
James S. Jackson, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Geoffrey Eley, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Norman D. Weiner, complete the term ending June 30, 1996, vice Jennifer B. Dressman,
resigned
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective March 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Marika V. Reinhart, M.BA, Lecturer in Business Administration, March 14, 1994
College of Engineering
William J. Endres Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, Septenber 1, 1994
Medical School
Edward Goldberg, M.D., Clinical Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Sean K. Kesterson, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Karen K. Milner, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, March 21, 1994
Elizabeth M. Petty, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Seth R. Stevens, M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, February 1, 1994
College of Pharmacy
Julie A. Golembiewsli, PharrrD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Stephen P. Ethier, Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health,
February 1, 1994
Juan F. Lopez, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, February 1, 1994
Angela L. McLoughlin, from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor II of Anesthesiology,
March 1, 1994
School of Nursing
Mary A. Broda, from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing,
September 1, 1994


245




April Meeting, 1994


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Marilyn S. Fries, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and
Women's Studies, with tenure, extended sick leave, March 4-May 31, 1994
David Goldberg, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
February 14-March 7,1994
John P. Langmore, Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Chair, Biophysics Research Division, sabbatical leave,
January 1- May 31, 1994
Medical School
Kenneth Adams, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, Medical
School, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, December 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Francis S. Collins, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure, governmental service leave, April 4, 1993-April 3, 1994
James H. Ellis, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Surgery, without tenure, extended sick leave, February 3-March 4, 1994
Stephen K. Fisher, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
February 1-July 31, 1994
School of Music
Donald J. Sinta, Professor of Music (Saxophone), with tenure, and the Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Robert E. Thomas, Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Business Law, School of
Business Administration, and Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, February 28, 1994
School of Education
Robert B. Kozma, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, April 22, 1994
College of Engineering
Bernard A. Galler, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
Arch W. Naylor, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Kevin PO Olmstead, Lecturer in Civil and Environmental Engineering, April 30, 1993
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Helen P. Crafton, Lecturer in Economics, March 31, 1994
John M. Myhill, Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Richard H. Sands, Professor of Physics, with tenure
Jeffrey A. Winters, Assistant Professor of Political Science
Medical School
James R. Creps, Lecturer in Psychiatry, April 30, 1993
Stephen G. Emerson, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, March 2, 1994
School of Music
Keith W. Bryan, Professor of Music (Flute), with tenure
Laura J. Crow, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure
Peter Ferran, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure
Armando A Ghitalla, Professor of Music (Trumpet), with tenure


246




April Meeting, 1994


Charles A. Jackson, Assistant Professor of Theatre
John D. Mohler, Professor of Music (Clarinet), with tenure
Stephen M. Newby, Instructor in Music (Composition/Computer Arts)
George B. Wilson, Professor of Music (Composition)
School of Natural Resources and Environment
John R. Bassett, Professor of Forestry, with tenure, June 30, 1994
William B. Stapp, Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Lyou-Fu Ma, Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, resigned, December 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Francisco Soto, Assistant Professor of Spanish, April 30, 1994
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted the following retirement memoir:
Joseph A. Walton, Jr., M.D., assistant professor of internal medicine, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1993, after a productive career as a
teacher, clinician, and researcher.
A native of Florida, Dr. Walton received his B.S. and M.D. degrees in 1956
and 1960, respectively, from the University of Florida at Gainesville. He did his
initial training in internal medicine at University Hospital at Gainesville before
coming to the University of Michigan in 1964. He finished his internal medicine
training here and then completed a cardiology fellowship before joining the faculty in 1966 as an instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1969.
Dr. Walton played a key role in the development of the cardiac catheterization program  at the University of Michigan Hospitals. He directed the
catheterization laboratory for 17 years and saw the evolution of invasive cardiology from a research tool to a commonly performed procedure that has become an
integral part of our diagnostic and treatment armamentarium. He has written 50
papers focusing on the use of angioplasty and thrombolytic agents in the
treatment of acute coronary disease and was part of the pioneering group here
that dramatically changed the management of patients with acute myocardial
infarction.
Dr. Walton will be best remembered as a quiet gentleman who influenced
the careers of several generations of trainees by exposing them to the joys of
clinical patient care. He was one of the unique clinicians who could go from the
bedside to the diagnostic laboratory and back to the bedside and be able to teach
students while providing a very high level of kind, compassionate patient care.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician for his dedicated service by naming Joseph A Walton, Jr., assistant professor emeritus of internal
medicine.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Whitaker submitted the May 1994 Doctoral Degree List,
the December 1993 Law School Final Degree List, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the remainder of the consent agenda as listed above.


247




April Meeting, 1994


Bond Rating Upgrades
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that Moody's
Investors Service had upgraded the ratings on University of Michigan debt from
Aa to Aal, and that this is the first time that a public university had ever
received a Moody's rating of Aal. He observed that this is a significant
achievement and is an honor to be shared by everyone in the institution. He
recognized Provost Whitaker, Vice President Kennedy, and Associate Vice
President Frederick Neidhardt for their participation in the presentation that
resulted in the rating. He also recognized Norman Herbert, university treasurer,
and Gerald Jernigan, assistant investment officer, for their efforts in preparing
for and directing the presentation.
President Duderstadt credited the Regents for their leadership and guidance
over the years, citing the comment in Moody's Credit Report that "The University ranks as the strongest public university rated by Moody's in several key indicators of financial strength."
Historical Investment Performance of Major Asset Classes
Executive Vice President Womack noted that in response to a question
raised at the March meeting, the executive summary of a report by Cambridge
Associates, Inc., entitled "Historical Capital Market Returns," had been included
with the agendas.
University Investment Pool
Executive Vice President Womack reviewed the proposal for changing the
investment strategy and distribution policy for the University Investment Pool,
illustrating the discussion with flip charts and a handout that had been prepared
by the treasurer's office. He stated that the proposed "internal bank" represents
conservative, sound financial practice typical of that of the best institutions, and
that it is expected to enhance the investment performance of the University's
working capital.
In response to a question from Regent Baker about the use of derivatives,
Executive Vice President Womack stated that the proper use of derivatives has a
place in the market, but some of the riskier strategies employed by particular
hedge funds described in the media that may generate enormous returns for investors would likely be inappropriate for use by the University. However, he emphasized that the use of financial futures, through the tactical asset allocation
strategy, conservatively managed, has been beneficial for the University.
Following finurther discussion, Regent Power moved that:
1.  a unitized Long-Term Portfolio be established as an investment vehicle for the
University's long-term capital: the University Endowment Fund and the "permanent core" assets of the University Investment Pool;
2.  the "permanent core" assets of UIP be gradually moved into the Long-Term
Portfolio over a three- to five-year period unless a significant market decline
provides the opportunity to move assets more quickly. Financial futures and
other derivatives would be used, as appropriate, to facilitate the transition;


248




April Meeting, 1994


3.  the investment objective for the University Investment Pool will be to maximize total return, not just yield. Accordingly, UIP's investment performance
will be measured on a total return basis; and
4.  a University Investment Pool distribution policy be adopted which will pay all
participants the 90-day U.S. Treasury bill rate on a quarterly basis, based on
their average daily balances.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, noting that he had asked the question
about derivatives because it had been mentioned in item 2 of the recommendation, and that his question had been adequately answered. Executive Vice President Womack pointed out that the words "as appropriate" in regard to the use of
financial futures and other derivatives are key to the intent of the
recommendation.
There being no further discussion, the vote was then taken, and the motion
was approved unanimously.
Venture Capital Investments
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $5 million of the University Endowment Fund to Battery Ventures III, L.P.
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan Clean Room Space
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the University
has entered into an agreement with the Environmental Research Institute of
Michigan (ERIM) for the lease of clean room space for the College of Engineering's Center for Display Technology & Manufacturing, according to the terms described in the Regents Communication.
Refinancing of Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993
Executive Vice President Womack explained that in the event that the State
Building Authority (SBA) would be unable to provide the fiuds necessary to pay
off the Series 1993 Bond Anticipation Notes by June 30, 1994, he was seeking approval for the issuance of $30 million of Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1994 to
pay off the Series 1993 Bonds and to provide for the construction cash flow requirements for the Integrated Technology Instruction Center (ITIC), Engineering Center, and C.C. Little and Angell Hall Renovation Projects through
December 1994.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of a resolution (see Appendix A, page 257) that
authorizes the executive vice president and chief financial officer to:
1.  develop the terms and legal documentation for the Bond Anticipation Notes,
and to prepare, circulate and execute preliminary and final official statements
describing the Bond Anticipation Notes, the University, and its affairs; and
2.  apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's
Corporation their ratings on the Bond Anticipation Notes; and


249




April Meeting, 1994


3.  publish a notice of sale, receive bids, award the Bond Anticipation Notes to the
winning bidder (or alternatively select an underwriter and execute a note purchase agreement with the underwriter), execute an order establishing the terms
of notes, and execute and deliver the notes.
Angell/Haven Hall Connector Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Douglas Hanna, university
architect, to present a revised budget and design for the Angell/Haven Hall Connector Project. Mr. Hanna reported that the design for this project had been revised in response to concerns raised when the project was initially presented at
the December 1993 Regents' Meeting. He reviewed each of the concerns that had
been raised and showed renderings depicting four alternative design suggestions
that had been made at the December meeting, noting the pros and cons associated with each design.
Mr. Hanna then presented a revised design solution that is responsive to the
Regents' concerns but still within the available budget. He displayed a site plan,
floor plans, a rendering of the entire building, and an architectural model, and
pointed out how the revised design responds to the concerns that had been expressed by the Regents.
Following Mr. Hanna's presentation, the Regents expressed enthusiastic
support for the revised design. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents unanimously approved the revised budget and design
for the Angell/Haven Hall Connector Project, and authorized issuing the project
for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing the project is within
budget.
CeC. Little Building Projects
Executive Vice President Womack reported that a construction contract for
the C.C. Little Renovation Project had been awarded to the lowest bidder, EllisDon Michigan, Inc. He and Provost Whitaker also described additional renovations being proposed by the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the
College of Pharmacy.
Following some discussion, Regent Deitch moved approval of an increase in
the budget for the functional renovations in the C.C. Little Building from the
previously approved $3,000,000 to $4,750,000 and authorization for award of a
construction contract for the first phase of this work ($921,500) to Ellis-Don
Michigan, Inc. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Engineering Center Project
Executive Vice President Womack described the details of the funding for
the previously approved Integrated Technology Instruction Center (ITIC)/ Engineering Center Project, for which $57 million of the total project budget of $58.35
million is to be funded by the State Building Authority. Due to the fact that bids
received for the Engineering Center component came in over the architect's


250




April Meeting, 1994


estimate, he is requesting an adjustment in the budget for that component. This
can be accomplished within the original total project budget, because the ITIC
component came in under the architect's estimate. Vice President Kennedy reported that the State Building Authority is in agreement with this proposal, and
Executive Vice President Womack said that the construction accounting will
clearly identify the two projects.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved internal adjustments within the $57 million budget of the
ITIC/Engineering Center Project to reflect an increase in the budget for the Engineering Center component and a decrease in the budget of the ITIC component. They also approved award of a construction contract for the Engineering
Center component to Sorensen Gross Construction Co., Inc.
Hubbard/Beal Intersection Reconstruction
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that reconstruction
of the Hubbard Road/Beal Avenue intersection on the North Campus will begin
in May 1994.
Regent Baker requested that there be a discussion at a future meeting about
access to the University from the northeast and the east.
University of Michigan Visitors Center Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Douglas Hanna, university
architect, to describe the proposed design of this project, which is intended to
serve as a central arrival point for visitors to the campus. The project involves an
addition to the Student Activities Building and renovations to the existing Student Activities Building.
Mr. Hanna displayed a site plan, schematic drawings of each floor, a drawing of the whole building, and an architectural model of the project. Several Regents expressed concerns about the facade and the windows for the project,
noting that the existing Student Activities Building is particularly unattractive in
these two areas. Mr. Hanna pointed out that the project includes replacement of
the louvered windows in the Student Activities Building, which will greatly enhance the building's appearance. He said that he would bring to the meeting next
month a rendering of how the facade will look with the replacement windows.
Following further discussion, President Duderstadt suggested that the Regents approve the project but be presented next month with a choice of different
exterior treatments before committing to a particular facade. Regent Power
moved provisional approval of the design and authorization for completion of
working drawings and bid documents, pending a discussion of the relationship of
the exterior improvements of the Student Activities Building to the proposed exterior treatment of the addition. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.


251




April Meeting, 1994


Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (Walter J. Loesche)
Regent Power complimented Vice President Neal for the improved format
and language of the Regents Communications having to do with intellectual
property.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Waters, all seven Regents present unanimously approved an assignment agreement with Walter J.
Loesche, D.M.D., Ph.D. for the following intellectual properties: "Improved System for Diagnosing Periodontal Disease," "Diagnostic Test Procedure for Detection of Oral Pathologenic Bacteria," and "Solid-Phase Test for the Detection of
Periodontal Disease in Subgingival Plaque." Because Dr. Loesche is a University
employee as well as inventor of the intellectual properties, this arrangement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Walter J. Loesche,
DM.D., Ph.D.
2.   The agreement is being executed according to the standard terms approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, modified as follows: contract terms include payment to the University of 15 percent of total consideration received by Dr.
Loesche; no use of University facilities or services; Dr. Loesch assumes all University responsibility towards the Bern Group with respect to royalty distribution; and the University agrees to discuss with Dr. Loesche's licensee access to
the parent technology "System for Diagnosing Periodontal Disease," Walter J.
Loesche, Salam A. Syed, and Barbara E. Laughton, inventors.
3.   Dr. Loesche's pecuniary interest arises from his right to receive royalties when
this technology is licensed. This is in lieu of participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University in accordance with University policy.
Regent Power left the meeting at this point (11:15 a.m.).
Tennis Center
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the Tennis Center Project on a phased
basis, as described in the Regents Communication.
UM    Medical Center North        Entrance    Parking    Structure   (NEPS)
Project
Regarding the North Entrance Parking Structure Project, Regent McFee
moved approval of the budget; submission of a Certificate of Need (CoN) amendment to the Michigan Department of Public Health; and soliciting bids and
awarding of a construction contract, provided the contract value is within the approved budget and a CoN amendment approval is received. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


252




April Meeting, 1994


Renovations
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Baits Housing domestic hot water system upgrade; 2) Northwood II and III utilities distribution
system replacement; 3) Herbarium renovation; 4) Central Power Plant controls
retrofit study; 5) the addition of free cooling capacity to the central chilled water
plant (energy conservation project); 6) Medical Science I and II air quality improvement; 7) renovation of the Civil Engineering Materials Lab in the G.G.
Brown Building, 8) expansion and renovations of the MedSport facility at Domino's Farms; and 9) expansion of space at the UM Primary Care Network Health
Centers at Northeast Ann Arbor, Northville, and Plymouth.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report
of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of
Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1993
Executive Vice President Womack submitted supplemental information to
the certified audited financial report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics of the University of Michigan for the year ended June 30, 1993.
1125-1137 East Huron and 1122-1126 East Ann, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the purchase of a 0.94 acre site located at 1125-1137 East
Huron and 1122-1126 East Ann Street in Ann Arbor at a price of $1.2 million.
Approval of Academic Calendars for the Ann Arbor Campus for
1995-96 and 1996-97
Provost Whitaker described how the proposed calendars differ from those of
previous years. Following some discussion, Regent Deitch moved approval of the
academic calendars for the Ann Arbor campus for 1995-96 and 1996-97, as shown
in the Regents Communication. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Ann Arbor Summer Festival
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to the bylaws of the Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc., as documented in the Regents Communication.
Master of Science in Computer and Information Science and Master of
Science in Engineering (Computer Engineering) Degree Programs at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Regent Baker moved approval of two new degree programs at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn: "Master of Science in Computer and Information Science," to be offered by the Department of Computer and Information Science;
and "Master of Science in Engineering (Computer Engineering)," to be offered
by the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Both programs will


253




April Meeting, 1994


operate under the auspices of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
News and Information Services
Vice President Harrison introduced Ms. Julie Peterson, who recently assumed the position of director of news and information services.
Comments by Regent Baker
Regent Baker read from prepared remarks in which he commented about
the use of restroom toilet stalls in University buildings for homosexual acts. A
copy of the statement is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the University. He
noted that the Michigan Daily had published a report by J.B. Akins in its April
11, 1994 issue about the use of restrooms in Mason Hall for homosexual sexual
acts.
Regent Baker quoted from the article, which reported that unsuspecting
custodians and students have witnessed "everything from oral and anal sex to
public or group masturbation" in the restrooms and that the Department of Public Safety stated that these encounters take place in these restrooms on a daily
basis. He also noted that custodians who work in Mason and Angell Halls have
filed a grievance objecting to the unsanitary conditions in the restrooms and to
having to clean up the bodily fluids.
Regent Baker observed that for a decade, he had been attempting to "convince University administrators to take strong action against such criminal acts,
some of which are felonies under Michigan law," and that the Regents had an obligation to provide a safe environment for students, faculty, and staff. He stated
his belief that the "climate of political correctness... has silenced nearly all critical comment on homosexual/lesbian conduct," and that University administrators have been reluctant to offend homosexual individuals even when their
conduct is against the law or "discomforts... embarrasses... or threatens members of the University community."
Regent Baker concluded his remarks by requesting "that President Duderstadt develop and put into place an aggressive policy to reduce or eliminate the
acts of gross indecency and sexually related acts on the University campus." The
policy would direct the Department of Public Safety to arrest people who violate
sections 338 and 339 of the state criminal code by their actions on University
property.
Regent Brown responded that while he agreed that the activities described
by Regent Baker are not appropriate on University property, it was incorrect to
imply that past administrations and the current administration have not tried to
correct the situation.
Regent McGowan stated that Regent Baker should not have the last word
on this issue by suggesting that the alleged behavior of a few is reflective of the


254




April Meeting, 1994


agenda of the gay and lesbian community at the University. She said that the
meeting should not end with this inappropriate impression.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on May 19 and 20, 1994. Regents' expenses for the month of
March 1994 totaled $912.77.
ichard L. Kenn   Se    ry


255




April Meeting, 1994


APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES
IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $30,000,000 TO PAY PRIOR
BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES AND TO TEMPORARILY FINANCE PART OF
THE COST OF ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION AND EQUIPPING OF CERTAIN PROJECTS AND RELATED COSTS, AND TO PROVIDE FOR
THE PAYMENT OF THE NOTES AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
needs of students attending The University of Michigan (the "University"), the Regents of the
University of Michigan (the "Issuer") has authorized the acquisition, construction and equipping
of an Integrated Technology Instruction Center and an Engineering Center, and the renovation
of C.C. Little and Angell Hall, each on the Ann Arbor Campus of the University (collectively, the
"Project"); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Issuer on November 19 1993 (the
"Prior Resolution"), the Issuer has previously issued its Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1993
(the "Prior Notes"), dated January 15, 1994 and maturing June 30, 1994; and
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority has stated its intention to provide permanent financing for a portion of the costs of the Project; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures
of the University's funds the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue its Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1994 (hereinafter defined as the "Notes") in the principal amount of not to exceed Thirty Million Dollars ($30,000,000) for the purpose of paying the Prior Notes, temporarily
financing part of the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating and equipping the Project, if an
Authorized Officer (hereinafter defined) deems such financing necessary or appropriate, and
paying the expenses related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project and the payment of the Prior Notes will serve
proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, in order to market the Notes in the most economic manner it is necessary to
authorize the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or the Associate Vice President for Finance (each an "Authorized Officer") to make determinations as to the terms of the
Notes, within the limits set forth herein and (except as modified herein or the context hereof
clearly requires otherwise) in the Prior Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has full power under
its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to acquire, construct, renovate and equip the Project, to pay
part of the cost thereof by issuance of the Notes;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. Definitions. In addition to the terms defined in this Resolution (the "Resolution"), the
capitalized terms used herein shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the Prior
Resolution.
2. Necessity for Issuance of the Notes. The Issuer, in the exercise of its powers and
authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of all


257




April Meeting, 1994 - Appendix A


expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Notes for the purposes set forth
in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable.
3. Authorization of the Issuance of the Notes. For the purposes set forth above there
shall, if deemed necessary by an Authorized Officer to accomplish those purposes, or any of them,
be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Thirty Million Dollars ($30,000,000) as shall be determined
by an Authorized Officer, and in evidence thereof there shall be issued the Notes of the Issuer
which shall be designated "Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1994", or with such other series designation as determined by an Authorized Officer, in like aggregate principal amount. The Notes
shall be sold, at a discount not exceeding 1% of the principal amount of the Notes, at a negotiated
or public sale, as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. If the Notes are sold at a negotiated sale, either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed to select an underwriter
and negotiate, execute and deliver a bond purchase agreement with respect to the Notes. If the
Notes are sold at a public sale, a notice of sale in the form to be approved by an Authorized Officer shall be published and the Notes shall be awarded to the winning bidder as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. The Notes shall bear such rate of interest as shall be set forth in
the winning bid, but the net interest cost for the Notes, taking into account the rate and any discount or premium, shall not exceed 5% per annumrL An Authorized Officer may place additional
limitations on the bids in the notice of sale and may determine to award the Notes on the basis of
either true interest cost or net interest cost.
The Notes shall be dated as of a date to be selected by an Authorized Officer, shall be payable from the sources as hereinafter set forth, and shall be issued in fully-registered form in the
denomination of $100,000 or integral multiples thereof. The Notes shall mature on the date
specified by an Authorized Officer, but not later than December 31, 1994.
The Notes shall bear interest payable on the maturity date. The principal amount of and
interest on each Note shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America upon surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of a bank or trust company designated
by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (the "Transfer Agent") in such coin
or currency of the United States of America as may be, on the respective dates of payment
thereof, legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America.
4. limited Obligation. The Notes shall be limited obligations of the Issuer payable solely
from the sources of funds specified in Article VI of the Prior Resolution, and the Notes shall not
be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan or a general obligation of the Issuer.
5. Other Note Details. Except as amended in this Resolution, all other provisions of the
Prior Resolution pertaining to the Prior Notes, including the form of note (with appropriate
modifications to reflect the provisions of this Resolution and the terms of the Notes), sources and
payment for the Prior Notes, defeasance and all covenants, are restated and incorporated herein
and shall apply to the Notes.
6. Application of Note Proceeds. Immediately upon the receipt thereof, the proceeds of
the sale of the Notes in an amount, together with any funds presently on deposit or to be deposited in the Note Fund, sufficient to pay principal and interest on the Prior Notes, shall be deposited in the Note Fund established pursuant to the Prior Resolution. The balance of the proceeds
of the Notes, if any, shall be deposited in the Project Fund established pursuant to the Prior
Resolution and used to pay cost related to the issuance of the Notes and costs of the Project, as
specified in the Prior Resolution.
7. Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Note Fund and the Project Fund shall be
invested as provided in the Prior Resolution.
8. Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants that it shall take all actions within its
control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Notes from gross income for
federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"), including but
not limited to actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings, if required, and the expenditure
and investment of Note proceeds and moneys deemed to be Note proceeds.


258




April Meeting, 1994 - Appendix A


9. Supplemental Resolutions. The Issuer may adopt resolutions supplemental to the
Resolution pursuant to the provisions of the Prior Resolution.
10. Authorization of Official Statement, Preliminary Official Statement, and Official Notice of Sale. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or the Associate Vice President for Finance, or either of them are hereby authorized to cause to be prepared
and circulated a Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Notes, to cause to be prepared
and published an Official Notice of Sale, and to cause to be prepared, and to execute and deliver
on behalf of the Issuer an Official Statement substantially in the form of the previously prepared
Preliminary Official Statement, relating to the Notes. The distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws, in connection with the sale of the
Notes, and the distribution and use of the Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws
by the successful bidder or underwriter, in connection with the marketing of the Notes, is hereby
authorized and approved.
11. Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution shall constitute
a contract between the Issuer and Noteholders to the equal and ratable benefit and protection of
each Noteholder, and after delivery of the Notes, no change, variation, or alteration of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance with its terms.
12. Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by the Resolution shall be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the Noteholder(s) under the law.
13. Other Documentation. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the University, the Secretary of the University, the Associate Vice President for Finance of the
University, the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University, and any other appropriate
officers or representatives of the Issuer or the University, and each of them, are authorized to
perform all acts and deeds and execute and deliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer required by this Resolution, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection
with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes, and the acquisition, construction, renovation
and equipping of the Project all as contemplated hereby.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Notes, all actions permitted or required by the Issuer may
be made or undertaken by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate
Vice President for Finance, or any other duly authorized officer of the Issuer or the University.
All determination of Note terms required to be made by the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance shall be made by him within the ranges
or other limitations set forth or incorporated herein.
14. Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the Resolution shall
be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any reason,
such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining sections,
clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
15. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
16. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in
conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
17. Effective Date- The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.


259




MAY MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 19, 1994
Public Comments
The Regents met at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy,
Provost Whitaker, and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as
were Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim Chancellor
Kugler, and Chancellor Renick.
The Regents heard comments from the following people, all regarding the
topic of the recommendations of the Bylaw 14.06 Task Force: Erik Olson, staff
member, Scott Yost, student; Jefferson Williams, student; and Cassius E. Street,
Jr., alumnus; all opposed to implementation of the task force recommendations;
and Sally Johnson, Pamela Home, Mark Erichson, Joy Paulson (staff members);
John Soluri, member of the GEO steering committee; and Jane Barney, retired
staff member; all in favor of implementation of the task force recommendations.
Following the completion of the public comments session at 5:00 p.m., the
meeting recessed until the following day.
Friday, May 20, 1994
The Regents met at 8:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Whitaker,
and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as were Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim Chancellor Kugler, and Chancellor Renick.
Chancellor of University of Michigan-Flint
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and announced that the
first order of business would be a recommendation for the appointment of
Charlie Nelms as chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint. The president
commented on Dr. Nelms' background and qualifications and said that he will
provide the vision and direction needed to continue the remarkable progress of
the UM-Flint campus.
Regent Varner moved the appointment of Charlie Nelms as chancellor of
the University of Michigan-Flint, effective August 1, 1994. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


261




May Meeting, 1994


President Duderstadt introduced Dr. Nelms and his wife, Jeanetta, both of
whom were in attendance, and invited Dr. Nelms to comment on his appointment. Dr. Nelms expressed his appreciation and excitement for his appointment
as chancellor and commented on his leadership philosophy. Following Dr. Nelms'
remarks, President Duderstadt expressed his appreciation to Dr. Kugler for his
service as interim chancellor and to Professor Harriet Wall, chair of the search
committee, and the other search committee members for their excellent work
that culminated in the selection of Charlie Nelms as chancellor.
Final Report of the Bylaw 14.06 Task Force
President Duderstadt commented that when the Regents voted in September 1993 to amend Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 to add the phrase "sexual orientation," they assigned the president and his administration the responsibility for
implementing the policy they had approved. To fulfill this responsibility, he had
appointed a committee, chaired by Bernard Machen, dean of the School of
Dentistry, to advise him on how the policy could best be implemented. The report
had been adopted unanimously and submitted to the president and was now being submitted to the Regents as an information item. The president observed
that the Board's responsibility is to approve the general policy, while not being
directly involved with the implementation of that policy.
He thanked Dean Machen and the committee for their work and stated that
the administration intended to take the committee's advice into careful consideration as it moved forward to implement the policy that the Regents had
approved. He advised the Board that he would keep them fully informed as the
administration addressed these issues. President Duderstadt observed that there
were a number of complex issues involved in implementation of the policy and
noted that the administration would be able to draw on the experience of other
higher education institutions that had already addressed these issues. He reiterated that his administration does intend to move ahead with implementation of
the general policy that the Regents had approved last September, and that he
would keep the Regents informed of their progress as they did so.
Regent Baker asked Dean Machen whether the committee had agreed to a
definition of sexual orientation, and whether pedophilia, man-boy love, and bestiality would be included in that definition. Dean Machen responded that he did
not understand how those terms relate to sexual orientation; Regent Baker
stated that if someone is oriented to those practices, they could claim that that
was their orientation. In response to Dean Baker's next question, Dean Machen
stated that the committee had been apprised of numerous instances of
discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians on campus. Regarding Regent
Baker's question of whether the University would be abrogating its responsibility
of deciding who would get benefits by relying on the City of Ann Arbor, Dean
Machen stated that the task force did not specifically define the process the
University would use. They had made suggestions that the University could
consider, but the responsibility for deciding such matters rests with the
administration.


262




May Meeting, 1994


Regent Baker observed that elected officials take an oath to uphold the state
constitution, and given that "some of the acts... which some of those people [in
the homosexual community] do are illegal under the law", questioned how the
Regents could reconcile their duty to uphold the law with codifying the recommendations of the task force. Dean Machen responded that he was unaware that
any of the recommendations of the task force would be illegal in the state of
Michigan. Regent Baker observed that such questions ought to be considered.
Regent Baker moved that the report of the Bylaw 14.06 Task Force dated
March 29, 1994, be rejected by the Regents and further that the phrase "sexual
orientation" be removed from Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06. President Duderstadt called for a second for the first motion calling for rejection of the task force
report; there being no second, the motion failed. He then called for a second on
the motion to remove the phrase "sexual orientation" from Regents' Bylaw
Section 14.06. That motion failed for lack of a second.
Comments by Regent Baker on Bylaw 14.06 Task Force Report
Regent Baker read from a prepared statement, a copy of which is on file in
the Office of the Secretary of the University. He stated that the Regents' decision
to include the term "sexual orientation" in Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 on September 24, 1993, and the present discussion of the task force report represented a
"defining moment" in the history of the University of Michigan that would have
a long-term impact on the lives of people associated with it.
Regent Baker observed that by adding the term "sexual orientation" to
Bylaw Section 14.06, the Regents were accepting the premise that homosexual
and lesbian sexual practices are equivalent to heterosexual practices, which is
contrary to the beliefs of a majority of Michigan's electorate. This "false premise"
is the basis for the task force recommendation to extend to same sex committed
partners the same university benefits now offered to heterosexual spouses.
Regent Baker observed that many Michigan residents consider the revised
bylaw and the task force report to be a direct attack on the American family because it undermines the family structure from a moral and religious perspective.
He observed that a statewide movement had been mobilized seeking to negate
the Regents' actions, which had generated more than 250 letters and nearly 4000
petition signatures; the largest reaction to any issue considered by the Regents in
his experience.
Regent Baker quoted from four letters from citizens and from a letter from
the Michigan House of Representatives Republican Task Force on Higher Education expressing their opposition to the use of tax money to equate homosexual
status with that of minorities, to "promote the homosexual agenda," and to "support homosexual legal rights and benefits." The letter from the Republican task
force warned that many of the recommendations may be in conflict with state
and federal rights and statutes. (The full text of the quotes is contained in the
statement on file.)


263




May Meeting, 1994


Regent Baker observed that members of the homosexual/lesbian community
have been successftil in advancing their political goals in Ann Arbor, both on and
off campus, and noted that the University supports a Lesbian, Gay Male, Bisexual Programs Office (LGMBPO). He reported that during freshmen orientation,
new students' views of homosexuality are challenged by lesbian and homosexual
group leaders. He quoted from a letter he'd received from a current student
describing the student's experience at freshmen orientation, in which the student
stated he or she had been ridiculed by the group's lesbian leader for the student's
"inability to have an open mind," and that the leader had "attacked [the student's] views" and lectured the student "in defense of her lifestyle."
Regent Baker stated his belief that "no criticism of homosexual/lesbian conduct is permitted in the classroom, the dormitory, or elsewhere on campus," or
by employees, and that the University does not permit "objection to having a homosexual or lesbian roommate" as sufficient mason for changing roommates. He
continued that "political correctness" has made faculty, staff, and students fearful of speaking out on issues.
Regent Baker stated that the opinions expressed by people in the state in
their letters and petitions to the Regents indicate their opposition to the bylaw
change and task force report as "an attack on the family, a wrongful expenditure
of taxpayer money, an attempt at thought control over... students, an overreaching into the responsibilities of the state legislature, an improper classification of
preference in sexual conduct as equal to racial discrimination, and... bad public
policy." Therefore, he concluded that the term "sexual orientation" should be
removed from Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 and that the Report of the Bylaw
14.06 Task Force should be rejected.
President Duderstadt noted that Regent Baker's statement represents his
own personal beliefs, and that in the view of the University administration, it
contains a "very significant number of mischaracterizations and misunderstandings," which would be corrected and would accompany the statement in the
record, rather than go unchallenged. (A copy of that statement, prepared by the
vice president for student affairs, is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the
University.)
Regent McFee thanked the members of the task force for the thoughtful
consideration they had given to all of the issues. She observed that she had also
received large numbers of letters on both sides of the issue. She noted that the
task force report is not meant to be accepted or rejected by the Regents; rather it
is meant to help guide the president in his implementation of the bylaw change
that the Regents had approved. Regent McFee noted that the Regents had
recently received a similar type of report on the issue of flexible benefits and
pointed out that, as in the case of the bylaw 14.06 report, there was definitely not
unanimous agreement on all of its recommendations.
Both task force reports, she observed, deal with the question of benefits and
their applicability to dependents. She noted that staff benefits now comprise a
significant portion of overall compensation, and that the staff employed by the
University has changed so that it now includes all possible combinations of


264




May Meeting, 1994


married and single people with or without dependents, some of whom may or
may not be employed at the University or elsewhere. Regent McFee observed
that the goal of the University's benefits package has been to alleviate the financial difficulties of providing for one's dependents. To that end, the task force
report should be reviewed in concert with the flexible benefits program and the
changing environment within the benefits arena
Regent McFee then posed the question of what the University could do to
alleviate the vulnerability of homosexuals, so they are not subject to harassment
because of their lifestyle. She recounted a telephone call she had received from a
woman who, as a Christian fundamentalist, is morally offended by homosexual
lifestyles, but who also is the mother of a homosexual college student and wanted
him to be able to live in an environment that would allow him to develop without
experiencing a life of constant harassment.
Regent McFee also reported that the Supreme Court had recently ruled that
a school board that for years had allowed a student to be ridiculed for allegations
about her sex life was responsible for allowing the harassment to continue
unabated. She urged that this type of ridicule not be allowed to take place at the
University, nor interfere with the development of students and employees.
Regent McGowan thanked the president for stating his intention to implement nondiscrimination and equal opportunity guarantees to the University's
gay and lesbian community as they pertain to employment benefits, financial aid
packages, residency requirements, and University housing, pursuant to the
Regents' action of September 24, 1993. She observed that it was the
responsibility of the president and executive officers to determine how to achieve
those policy goals, and that the president had done so by appointing a task force
to study these issues and advise him. She noted that the Board's decision had
been reinforced when Regent Baker had failed, through his motions earlier in the
meeting, to move any member of the Board.
With regard to assertions made earlier by Regent Baker, Regent Power
asked Dean Machen whether the task force had "concluded, wrongly, that 'committed same-sex' relationships (homosexual, bisexual and lesbian) are equivalent
to married spousal relationship[s] (heterosexual)." Dean Machen responded that
this statement is accurate from the perspective only of rewarding benefits.
Regent Power then asked Vice President Hartford whether Regent Baker's
assertions are true that "after school begins, no criticism of homosexual/lesbian
conduct is permitted in the classroom, the dormitory or elsewhere on the campus" and that "under University rules a student's objection to having a homosexual or lesbian roommate is not sufficient reason to allow a change of
roommates." Vice President Hartford responded that the first assertion would
be proven to be inaccurate merely upon asking any gay or lesbian student
whether criticism of them has been permitted once they arrive on campus. Regarding the second assertion, she stated that students in residence halls have a
choice of whom they live with. If a student decides he or she does not want to live
in a certain room, the housing office tries to accommodate a move, within the


265




May Meeting, 1994


limits imposed by high occupancy levels. The philosophy is that students are
adults and have a right to decide who they want to live with.
Regent Deitch observed that Regent McGowan had correctly articulated the
nature of the discussion. He stated that the purpose of the bylaw change was to
achieve equity and to make "a reality out of our commitment to diversity." He
said that he was comfortable with the process and with the task force's recommendations being in the hands of the president for further study and, he hoped,
implementation.
Regent Deitch quoted Regent Baker's comment that "Many Michigan citizens consider the Regents' action in September 1993 adding 'sexual orientation'
to Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 and the present report of the 14.06 task force to
be a direct attack on the American family-their families-because it undermines the family structure in moral and other terms." He said that he resented
that statement and that it would be wrong to leave that impression with the
public.
Regent Deitch quoted from the remarks of Pamela Home, a University staff
member who had spoken at the public comments session in support of the recommendations of the task force. Ms. Home had noted that she was a local resident
who had been married for 20 years, was a mother of two daughters, and was an
active and practicing Christian. She had stated,
"Given my personal characteristics, it may not appear as if I
have a stake in these issues. But I do have a stake, as does every
citizen of Michigan. Whether we know it or not, we all have
colleagues, friends, and relatives who are gay and lesbian. These are
real persons of worth and dignity, but who are discriminated against
not only by individuals, but by the institutions of our society. Let us
not have the University of Michigan continue to be an institution
which contributes to intolerance and exclusion, but rather one which
leads in its commitment to respect, inclusion, and fair treatment.
Yes, I do have a stake-injustice to any one of us is injustice to us
all."
Regent Deitch concluded that he spoke in support of the recommendations
as a family person himself, who had been married for 25 years, had three children, aging parents, and other accouterments typical of American families. He
believes that "families come in all shapes, sizes, colors, and that what we judge in
people is their character, and their values.... We need to be able to say that we
respect people and that we welcome them into our community."
Regent Deitch expressed confidence that under President Duderstadt's leadership, the recommendations would be dealt with in an appropriate fashion, and
expressed hope that the University of Michigan would join a number of peer
institutions in adopting, in one form or another, the recommendations of the
task force.
Regent McFee observed that many citizens had expressed in their letters the
notion that they would be watching the outcome of this meeting. She said she


266




May Meeting, 1994


welcomed that observance and hoped that they would continue observing the
Board as it dealt with other issues in the future.
Regent Baker stated that citizens' view of the Board's actions as an attack
on the family is a legitimate one, since society today is "in shreds" in many
respects. He believes people are desperate to find ways to hold the family
together and to exemplify some of the traits described by Regent Deitch. He
stated the Board would be doing an injustice to the state's citizens if it "ignores
the hopes and aspirations of this society toward the family." This particular issue is but one manifestation, he believes, of what people view as the disintegration of the family.
Regent Baker observed that it was not easy to raise these issues, and that
when he talked about difficult issues, he tried to do it in a thoughtful, easily
understood, manner. He noted that the Board's policies change over time
according to the makeup of the Board, so that in a few years the vote could be the
opposite of what it is today. He continued that in spite of his views on this issue
or disagreement with particular policies, he loves this institution and the opportunities it provides people. He noted his long-standing involvement with civil
rights, from his military service in the early 1940s to his work with the Urban
League in Detroit. He hoped that the exchange of ideas that had occurred that
day were done in good spirit and with an understanding that there are differences in opinion, that ideas have consequences, and that they should be
discussed.
Regent McGowan pointed out that in the mid-1800s there had been a bitter
debate about whether to admit women to the University that did not conclude
until 1870, when women were admitted. As that was a good decision, today's
action will also be a good decision for the University.
President Duderstadt observed that the University of Michigan had been
"the epitome of the Jeffersonian ideal of an institution that aspires to excellence
but to provide that excellence to all of that society that creates, supports, and sustains us." He recalled a recent speech at the University by the Dalai Lama, in
which he referred to a "family of humankind" to which we all belong and which
we serve. He stated that he accepts the responsibility for implementing the
Regents' policy and will address the various issues surrounding that. He
expressed appreciation for the input of Dean Machen and the task force and the
input of the Regents, and said he would keep the Regents apprised as the administration moves to implement the policy.
There followed a short recess, after which the meeting reconvened at 9:30
a.m. Regents Brown and Waters were not present for the remainder of the
meeting.
Proposed FY 1995 University of Michigan Hospitals' Operating Budget
Executive Vice President Womack introduced Mr. John Forsyth, executive
director of University of Michigan Hospitals, to present the proposed fiscal year
1995 Hospitals' Operating Budget. Mr. Forsyth stated that the budget is based


267




May Meeting, 1994


on the Hospitals' mission, vision, values, and critical success factors, and gave a
slide presentation illustrating these concepts.
For its mission, the Hospitals' strive for excellence and leadership in terms
of patient care and service, education, and research. The vision statement is
based on assessment of the institution's strengths, and encompasses being the
first place people think of when they think of health care, being preeminent in
teaching, research and advancing medical science, and being the employer of
choice. The Hospitals are guided by the values of respect, compassion, integrity,
efficiency, and leadership. Critical success factors include several measures of
success in the clinical arena, customer satisfaction, partnership with the community, educational and research excellence, creativity and innovation, cost effectiveness, and financial viability.
Mr. Forsyth displayed a number of graphs and charts that illustrate the
Hospitals' financial viability in terms of assets, equity, FY 1994 results, cash balances, and debt capacity, noting that all measures are favorable for the current
fiscal year. He then enumerated weaknesses that had been identified in 1993,
noting that substantial progress had been made in improving many of them,
including alignment of educational and clinical strategies, making a significant
commitment toward improving aging research facilities, and moving toward
expanding the primary care network. The latter effort will be addressed in large
part by the new medical campus planned for northeast Ann Arbor. Efforts have
also been made to strengthen two other weaknesses that had been identified in
1993, including establishing joint ventures and affiliations with other institutions
and improving cost structure and utilization.
Mr. Forsyth reviewed options for the Medical Center in the marketplace and
health care reform environment, with possible roles as a supplier to multiple
HMOs (Health Maintenance Organizations)/AHPs (Allied Health Plans), a partner in a delivery system, or a combination of all of these options. He listed a
number of "key imperatives for UMMC financial success."
The FY 1995 budget assumptions include a cost effectiveness program,
enhanced academic support, relatively flat admissions/visits/length of stay,
self-funded competitive salary program, and maintaining the cost effectiveness
program with an emphasis on cost per case. The proposed budget includes a 5.7
percent reduction in the private/semi-private room rate and no increase in the
intensive care unit room rate and ancillary rates.
Mr. Forsyth concluded his presentation with a discussion of planning
assumptions for FY 1996 and FY 1997 budgets. Following some discussion,
Regent Power moved adoption of the proposed FY 1995 University of Michigan
Hospitals' operating budget, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
McFee seconded the motion, and it was improved unanimously.
Family Practice Building in Chelsea
This is a proposal for the University of Michigan Medical Center to purchase
a new family practice clinic facility on the Chelsea Community Hospital (CCH)


268




May Meeting, 1994


campus for the Department of Family Practice. On a motion by Regent Varner,
seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved the purchase of the family
practice clinic facility on the CCH campus, which will include a long term lease
for the land, according to the terms described in the Regents Communication.
CESF Report-Ann Arbor Campus
The president called on Professor John Tropman, chair of the Committee on
the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) for the Ann Arbor campus, to present the committee's report. Professor Tropman distributed handouts of the
committee's report. He stated that the committee was recommending a salary
improvement program this year and had expressed support for a flexible benefits
package and a one-time salary supplement pilot program. Other recommendations include development of a faculty and staff compensation policy; development of a compensation analysis task force to outline and oversee the regular
development and report of compensation numbers to the University community;
exploring the possibility of developing unbiased programs to educate faculty and
staff in the allocation of their retirement assets; and review of the report of the
New Pay Committee.
The president complimented Professor Tropman and the committee for
their spirit of cooperation in working with the administration and noted that
they had addressed issues that are very important to the institution. A discussion
followed regarding flexible benefits, the retirement program, and other points
raised in the report.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Regarding the April minutes, Regent Baker stated that Regent
McGowan's assumption that he had deliberately chosen to speak about a controversial issue at the end of a meeting is incorrect. He reported that he had advised
the other Regents and the president before the meeting that he was going to be
raising the issue and had given them copies of his remarks. He had asked the
president to be able to speak early in the meeting, but the president had
requested that he speak at the end, so he had accommodated that request.
It was decided to delay consideration of the minutes until the following
meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. Vice President
Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of
current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of
voluntary support.
AT&T Global Information Solutions, Dayton, Ohio
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration............ 15,000
AT&T Information Systems, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Human Resources Partnership Program, School of Business Administration..........15,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts....................................................................................................................................................21,659


269




May Meeting, 1994


American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
College of Pharmacy, and the Biophysics Research Division....................................................................177,481
American Cancer Society of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School.......................................................................................................8,696
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............212,350
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School...................................................  37,490
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for employee   m atching  gifts.................................................................50.............................5,200
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School......................................................................................................... 8,800
American Hearing Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for   research   in   the   M edical School...............................................................................................................................  10,000
American Heart Association, Houston, Texas
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............520,404
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing and the College of Pharmacy............. 298,000
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School............................................25,000
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 105,000
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 10,000
American Xyrofin, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for biochem  ical research  in  the  School of Dentistry............................................................................................33,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Community Dentistry Program in the School of Dentistry.......................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Special Exhibitions Fund in the Museum of Art..................................................................................25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........8,167
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 13,333
Association Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, Geneva, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering................................116,968
Max K. Aupperle, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity   M usical  Society........................................................................................................................................ 6,940
Frances Willison Bishop Trust
for the Dr. Clayton and Emma Elizabeth Willison Fund in the Medical School...........................34,135
Border's, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 12,500
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Preston W. Slosson Fellowship and the Bockman/Hall Fellowship in the
College  of Literature, Science, and  the  Arts..............................................................................................................35,562
Stephen G. Cain, Saline
for the Louise Cain Fund in the Center for the Education of Women....................................................5,000
Capital Management Services, Los Angeles, California
1,500 shares of Microchip Technology, Inc., common stock for the Humanities
Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................................................69,188
Janet E. Cassebaum, Mount Bethel, Pennsylvania
700 shares of First Eastern Corporation common stock for the Milton and Josephine
Kendrick Award, School of Business Administration, support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and scholarships in the Department of Athletics............... 18,200
William C. Cassebaum, Mount Bethel, Pennsylvania
800 shares of First Eastern Corporation common stock for the Frederick Leckie
Scholarship and Loan Fund, Law School and scholarship, Department of Athletics.............. 20,800
Centerior Energy Community Program, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching gifts....................................................................................................................................................for employee matching...5,050
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan
for history of art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research................................................. 36,175
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  research   in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School.............................................50,000


270




May Meeting, 1994


Lucille Beebe Coles, South Bend, Indiana
2,425 shares of Whirlpool Corporation common stock for the Women's Health
Initiative in the Medical School......................................................................................................................................... 147,773
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
27 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock for the Colton
Neurobiology Research Fund and other support in the Medical School.......................................... 444,150
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
1,150 shares of Southeastern Michigan Gas Enterprises common stock for the
Pauline M. Conger Scholarship, Alumni Association and the Ralph G. Conger
Scholarship......................................................................................................................................................................................  27600
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for  em  ployee    m  atching      gifts......................................................................................................................................................6,450
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for  em  ployee    m  atching      gifts....................................................................................................................................................16,087
Lyle Eggleston Craine Estate
for the Stanley A. Cain Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............. 11,032
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School.....................................................................................................................................32,400
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................................................... 11,775
Raymond C. Daly Estate
for  th e   P resident's    F u n d............................................................................................................................................................15,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................................22,500
Dickinson, Wright, Moon, VanDusen & Freeman, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law                               School.................................................. 10,000
Dow Coring Corporation, Midland
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts...................................................................................................................................................... 7,453
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, New York, New York
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts......................................................................................................................................................9,00
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the JoAnn and Stewart Nathan Fund in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for the du Pont Fund in the School of Business Administration.................50,000
Mona East Estate, Ann Arbor
for the Mona East Funds in the School of Information and Library Studies and
the University Library...................................................................................................................................................................7,962
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Minority and Female Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................................6,078
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............75,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the University
of  M ichigan-D     earborn................................................................................................................................................................373,150
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for the Hill Auditorium           Restoration Fund and for the University Musical Society.....................5,700
Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................................................... 15,000
W. W. Grainger, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................................................................................6,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development...........................................................67,924
Great Lakes BancCorp, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...................................................................................................................................... 8,000
J. Ira & Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................20,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................................... 75,811
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................................................................................................10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for environmental studies in the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................25,000
Hoechst Celanese Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey
for the William        B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School......................................................................20,000
International Paper, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Minority and Female Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................................7,500


271




May Meeting, 1994


Issac Corporation, Bryan, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building and scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................9,000
J. W. & Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support of the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................40,000
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Japanese Legal Studies Program           in the Law School........................................................................ 11,403
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic and for employee matching gifts.................6,450
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the School of Nursing, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Historical Center for the Health Sciences.................................... 194,083
Rosa Kingsbury Estate
for the Rosa Kingsbury Student Loan Fund...........................................................................................................347,929
Jeffrey & Nancy Lane Foundation, Hewlett, New York
for the Nancy and Jeffrey Lane Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in the College of
Literature, Science,    and   the  A rts........................................................................................................................................ 15,000
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical  School...................................................................................................................................26,222
Andrew C. MacKinnon Estate
for the Paton Center for Accounting in the School of Business Administration.............................5,230
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 9,750
Lucille P. Markey Trust, Miami, Florida
for  research    in   the  M edical School.................................................................................................................................. 982,400
May Department Stores Company Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for Orientation Programs in the School of Business Administration and for
the  Office  of Career   Planning   and   Placem  ent.......................................................................................................... 20,000
William L. McKinley, Holland
200 shares of Gerber Products Company common stock for scholarships in the
D epartm   ent  of  A thletics................................................................................................................................................................5,950
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
scholarships and fellowships, Horace H. Rackham              School of Graduate Studies.................. 1,065,000
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for  the  U niversity  M usical Society........................................................................................................................................ 7,000
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for research, Schools of Medicine and Public Health and the College of Pharmacy..............141,709
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media
in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering............................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for undergraduate programs in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the Engineering Center
in the College of Engineering, and for the Hill Auditorium             Restoration Fund.......................... 150,000
John C. Morley, Cleveland, Ohio
80 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock and cash gift of $57.60 for
support of the School of Business Administration...................................................................................................5,178
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School................................................25,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for  em ployee  m  atching    gifts......................................................................................................................................................8,425
Mary C. Murphy, Calumet
6,450 shares of various corporate common stocks and cash gift of $100,000
for the Mary C. Murphy Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate
benefit of the Percy J. Murphy, M.D., and Mary C. Murphy, R.N., Professorship
of Pediatrics   in  Child  H ealth  Care  Delivery............................................................................................................388,400
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for  research    in  the  M edical School................................................................................................................................... 10,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................................249,901
George J. Nichols, Jr., Jupiter, Florida
for the George J. Nichols, Jr., Student Internship, School of Business Administration.....10,000
Graham A. Orley, Bloomfield Hills
for the William    Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................... 7,000
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School...............................................25,000


272




May Meeting, 1994


Orthopedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for  research   in   the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................8,609
PKR Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for renal disease research in the Medical School..................................................................2.....25,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for mathematics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................25,000
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for the Loyal Crew Fund in the College of Engineering...........5........................................   5,500
John C. and Thelma B. Post Estates
for the John C. and Wilma B. Post Fund..................30.................................37,500
Research Fund of the American Ontological Society, Davis, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................. 5,004
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................................................... 30,000
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn...................................................................................................................1000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................30,129
Sara Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert Lurie Fund..............................................................................................  100,000
Irvin J. Sattinger, Ann Arbor
234 shares of Ralston Purina Company common stock for support in the Schools
of Medicine and Natural Resources and Environment and the University of Michigan...........8,936
Gerald Leo Schneberger, Flint
400 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for the Kathleen A.
Schneberger Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint.........................................................................23,300
Scripps Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts.......................................................................................................................................................8,230
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret M. and Herman E. Sokol Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of G raduate  Studies...................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education and for research, Institute for Social Research........85,500
Anna R. Stevenson Estate
for the Stevenson-Bartholomew Merit Scholarship in the School of Music.................................. 100,000
Stichting De Hooge Waard, The Netherlands
for the Isadore Lampe Chair in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School.....................................10,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint................................................................. 5,015
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships, School of Natural Resources and Environment.....................14,251
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for  research  in  the  M edical School...................................................................................................................................25,000
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for the UMI Information Management Fellowship in the School of Information and
Library Studies and for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..32,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts..................................................................................................................................................15,819
Lawson Valentine Foundation, West Hartford, Connecticut
for the MBA Peace Corps in the School of Business Administration..................................................25,000
Dorothy Lois Verner Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................10,000
Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for  the  U niversity  M usical Society.................................................................................................................................. 125,086
Ronald 0. Warner, Flint
100 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for the Ronald 0. Warner
Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the School of Social Work..........5,644
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gift s................................................................................................................................................... 13,250
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and    the  A rts..................................................................................................................................................................... 10,000


273




May Meeting, 1994


Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for   em ployee   m atching  gifts..............................................................................................................................   7,575
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for  research  in  the  College  of Engineering............................................................................................................... 66,324
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Green Research Support Fund in the Medical School.................................................................144,068
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apollo Trick Titanium, Inc., Troy
titanium chassis parts for the 1993 Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering
General Motors Corporation, Warren
an Intel 12 ICE Emulation System for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of
Engineering
E. Richard McPhee, Pinckney
288 issues of professional journals for the dentistry library in the School of Dentistry
NUTEK, Inc., Birmingham
site license of QUALITEK-4 software for 20 installations and IBM-AT/compatible software for
Automatic Design and Analysis of Taguchi Experiments for the University of Michigan-Flint
Department of Physics and Engineering Science
S-3 Engineering, Inc., Ann Arbor
thirty lane marker reel spool replacements for the Don Canham Natatorium in the Department of the Athletics
Alice A. Simsar, Ann Arbor
two Bill Barrett sculptures: "Untitled," 1966, painted steel and "Untitled," #29 1967, painted
and brushed steel for the College of Engineering
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
forty-eight volumes illustrating monuments in Java, in slides, photographs, publication reproductions, etc., for the Department of History of Art
Additional gifts ranging from    $1 to $999 in value were received from       the
following donors:
Sharon Blatt, Farmington Hills           Bettysue Pisula, Dearborn Heights
Georgia Murray Conard, Ann Arbor         Nancy Spilker, Dearborn
Robert Grijalva, Saline                  Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Sharon Knaski, Grand Blanc               Paul A. Van Raaphorst, Rochester
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor                 Terrence Webb, Jackson
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted personnel actions, pointing out the recommendation for the appointment of Jeffrey Sean Lehman as
dean of the Law School.
Recommended promotions. Provost Whitaker observed that the faculty
promotion and tenure process is one of the most important things undertaken at
the University, and that it is done as carefully and as seriously as possible
because these decisions affect the reputation and future directions of the
University for many years to come. He reviewed the promotion and tenure process, noting that the criteria are determined by the faculty, who make recommendations to the dean and school or college executive committee, who in turn make
recommendations to the provost and president, with final approval being given
by the Regents. When women and minority candidates are turned down for tenure or promotion, written statements indicating where each person failed to meet
the criteria are forwarded to the Affirmative Action Office for review.
Provost Whitaker distributed a handout indicating progress towards retaining women and minority faculty. This year, 26.4 percent of the people recommended for promotion or tenure were women, a significant improvement over


274




May Meeting, 1994


the past several years. Minorities comprised 15.7 percent of the total recommended for promotion or tenure. Provost Whitaker observed that efforts to
recruit and retain faculty of color and women are beginning to pay off. He then
reviewed the materials for five individuals who were being recommended for promotion or tenure.
Chancellor Renick presented the promotion and tenure recommendations
for the Dearborn campus and Chancellor Kugler presented the recommendations
for the Flint campus.
Following some discussion, Regent Deitch moved approval of the appointment of Jeffrey Sean Lehman as dean of the Law School. Regent Power seconded
the motion, and it was adopted.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Brian Carter, M-Arch., Professor of Architecture, July 1, 1994
Anthony Elliot, B.Mus., Professor of Music (Cello)
Barry M. Franklin, Ph.D., Professor of Education, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Education, three-year term, UM-Flint, July 1, 1994
David A Hirshleifer, Ph.D., Professor of Finance
Betty J. Jones, Ph.D., Professor of Theatre
Kenneth L. Modesitt, Ph.D., Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, three-year term, UM-Dearborn,
July 1, 1994
Carol T. Mowbray, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work
Kenneth J. Pienta, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Surgery, without tenure, July 1, 1994
Jos6 Rabasa, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR,
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1994
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Sharon E. Sutton, from Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, to Professor of
Architecture, with tenure
School of Art
Edward West, from Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, to Associate Professor of Art, with
tenure
School of Business Administration
Eugene W. Anderson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Marketing, without
tenure
Jane E. Dutton, from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ronen Israel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure
Charles M. C. Lee, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure
Peter J. Lenk, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Statistics and Management
Science, without tenure


275




May Meeting, 1994


M. P. Narayanan, from Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Finance, with tenure
Paul J. Seguin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure
Edward A. Snyder, from Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, to Professor of
Business Economics, with tenure
Bernard Y. Yeung, from Associate Professor of International Business, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of International Business, with tenure
School of Dentistry
Mark Fitzgerald, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Kenneth D. McClatchey, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of
Dentistry, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
without tenure, Medical School, to Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of
Dentistry, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
without tenure, Medical School
Jonathan A. Ship, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Dentistry, with tenure
Martha J. Somerman, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and William K and
Mary Anne Najjar Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and William K. and
Mary Anne Naijar Professor
School of Education
Brian Rowan, from Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, to Professor of Education,
with tenure
College of Engineering
Rayhaneh Akhavan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
William P. Birmingham, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
James F. Driscoll, from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to Professor
of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Edmund H. Durfee, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science, with tenure
Jessy Grizzle, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Kim F. Hayes, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Environmental Engineering,
with tenure
Pierre T. Kabamba, from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, to
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure
Elijah Kannatey-Asibu, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure
Linda Katehi, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Yue-Ying Lau, from Professor of Nuclear Engineering, without tenure, to Professor of Nuclear
Engineering, with tenure
Karem A. Sakallah, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure
Elliot Soloway, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Education, without tenure,
School of Education, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Education, without tenure,
School of Education
Levi Thompson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with
tenure
John L. Volakis, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Anthony M. Waas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering,
with tenure


276




May Meeting, 1994


Kim A. Winick, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Dante Amidei, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Keletso Atkins, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and
African Studies, with tenure
Ruth Behar, from Associate Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure
Timothy E. Chupp, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor of Physics,
with tenure
Laura E. Downs, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Julian J. Faraway, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure
David W. Gidley, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor of Physics, with
tenure
Linda Gregerson, from the William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English to Associate
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Juha Heinonen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Paul K Huth, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Deborah Keller-Cohen, from Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, to Professor of
Linguistics, with tenure
Robin Kelley, from Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with
tenure, to Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure
Theresa M. Lee, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Rosina Lippi-Green, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and
Literatures, with tenure
Robert E. Megginson, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Thylias Moss, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure
Rudolf Mrazek, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
James E. Penner-Hahn, from Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of
Chemistry, with tenure
Andrea L. Press, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Communication and
Women's Studies, with tenure
Omry Ronen, from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, with tenure, to
Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, with tenure
Colleen M. Seifert, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Barbara B. Smuts, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Anthropology, with tenure, to Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
Gary Solon, from Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, to Professor
of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure
Ennio Stacchetti, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Gregory Tarl6, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor of Physics, with
tenure
Thelma K Thomas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History of Art, with
tenure
Raymond Van Dam, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor of History,
with tenure
Yu Xie, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Medical School
Ronald S. Adler, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Roger L. Albin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Richard A. Altschuler, from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without tenure,
and Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, to Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, without tenure, and Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
William F. Armstrong, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Ariel L. Barkan, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure


277




May Meeting, 1994


Jeffrey L. Barnett, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
David G. Beer, from Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Radiation
Oncology to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, without tenure
Terry J. Bergstrom, from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, without tenure, to Professor
of Ophthalmology, with tenure
John E. Billi, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and
Health Professions Education, without tenure
Caroline E. Blane, from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of Radiology,
with tenure
Ralph B. Blasier, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
C. Richard Boland, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Mark B. Bromberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Kirk J. Brower, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
James A. Brunberg, from Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Associate Professor
of Neurology, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Associate Professor of Neurology, without
tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Kemp B. Cease, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Jeffrey S. Chamberlain, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with
tenure
Carol E. Chenoweth, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Stephen W. Chensue, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure
James T. Elder, from Assistant Professor of Dermatology and Assistant Professor of Radiation
Oncology to Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, without tenure
Victor M. Elner, from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of
Pathology to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Assistant Professor
of Pathology
Ramon M. Esclamado, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
with tenure
Stephen P. Ethier, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with
tenure
Eva L. Feldman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Bruno Giordani, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
James A. Goulet, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Rodney A. Hayward, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate
Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health
Mark A. Helvie, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
A Craig Hillemeier, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Robert V. Hogikyan, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Lawrence B. Holzman, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
William W. Hurd, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
without tenure
Robert W. Ike, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Richard Jove, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
with tenure
Paul D. Killen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure
J. Michael Koomey, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, with tenure
William H. Kou, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Thomas J. Kulik, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure


278




May Meeting, 1994


Joseph P. Lynch, III, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
David M. Markovitz, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Charles S. Marn, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Richard A. Miller, from Professor of Pathology, without tenure, to Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
Elizabeth G. Nabel, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Richard R. Neubig, from Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Geneva Omann, from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Assistant Professor of
Biological Chemistry to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure
Douglas J. Quint, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Pamela A Raymond, from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure,
to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure
Riley S. Rees, from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
John M. Robertson, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology
Jessica Schwartz, from Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, to Professor of Physiology,
with tenure
Suzanne M. Selvaggi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure
Gerald A. Serwer, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Paul A Sieving, from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, to Professor of
Ophthalmology, with tenure
Mark A Supiano, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Denise G. Tate, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, with tenure
Andrew K Vine, from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, to Professor of
Ophthalmology, with tenure
Steven W. Werns, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
John W. Wiley, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
School of Music
Michael Daugherty, from Associate Professor of Music (Composition), without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure
Erik Fredricksen, from Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, to Professor of Theatre,
with tenure
Paul Kantor, from Associate Professor of Music (Violin), with tenure, to Professor of Music
(Violin), with tenure
Catherine Nadon-Gabrion, from Associate Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure,
School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, to Professor of Music
(Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of
Education
Edward L. Parmentier, from Associate Professor of Music (Harpsichord), with tenure, to
Professor of Music (Harpsichord), with tenure
Louise K Stein, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Musicology), with
tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Donald R. Zak, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure
School of Nursing
Carol Boyd, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Ann E. Rogers, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure


279




May Meeting, 1994


College of Pharmacy
Rosemary R. Berardi, from Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, to Professor of
Pharmacy, with tenure
Margaret L. Carver, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure
Nair Rodriguez-Hornedo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with
tenure
School of Public Health
Linda M. Chatters, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Behavior and
Health Education, with tenure
Barbara A Israel, from Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with
tenure, to Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure
Patricia P. Moll, from Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, to Professor of
Epidemiology, with tenure
Dean G. Smith, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Services Management
and Policy, with tenure
Edward T. Zellers, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial Health, with
tenure
School of Social Work
Daniel G. Saunders, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Kristine Siefert, from Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, to Professor of Social
Work, with tenure
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Paul Hughes, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Patricia K. Smith, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Richard Straub, from Associate Professor of Psychology, to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Michael J. Twomey, from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor of
Economics, with tenure
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Raymond P. Kettel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
Belinda D. Lazarus, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Yubao Chen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing
Systems Engineering, with tenure
Natarajan Narasimhamurthi, from Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
without tenure, to Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
with tenure
Louis Y. Tsui, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Computer and Information
Science, with tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
James R. Ames, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
John C. Bell, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure
Robert Bix, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
Everett J. Blakely, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Albert C. Price, from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, to Professor of
Political Science, with tenure
Mehrdad Simkani, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Christine M. Waters, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective July 1, 1994
Kenneth 0. Devaney, M.D., Associate Professor of Pathology


280




May Meeting, 1994


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Brian A. Burt, Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Community Health Programs, appointment extended as Chair, Department of Community
Health Programs, one-year term
Walter H. Clark, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature,
reappointed to active status, May 1-June 24, 1994
Richard G. Cornell, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, and Interim Dean, School of Public
Health, appointment extended as Interim Dean, School of Public Health, one-year term,
September 1, 1994
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Robert R. Lewis, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physics, reappointed to active status,
May 1- June 24, 1994
Hunein F. Maassab, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Epidemiology, appointment extended as Chair, Department of Epidemiology, one-year
term
Khalil H. Mancy, Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, Professor of International
Health, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Environmental and Industrial Health,
appointment extended as Chair, Department of Environmental and Industrial Health,
one-year term
Arnold S. Monto, Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with tenure,
Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Interim Chair, Department of Population
Planning and International Health, appointment extended as Interim Chair, Department
of Population Planning and International Health, October 1, 1994-June 30, 1995
Eugene M. Pjanowski, Professor of Art, without tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Art,
appointment extended as Associate Dean, School of Art, one-year term
Suzanne M. Selig, Associate Professor of Health Care, with tenure, and Coordinator, School of
Health Professions and Studies, UM-Flint, reappointed Coordinator, School of Health
Professions and Studies, UM-Flint, three-year term
Alfred W. Storey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech, reappointed to active status,
May 1-August 31, 1994
John R. C. Wheeler, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Health Services Management and Policy, appointment extended as
Chair, Department of Health Services Management and Policy, one-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Jeffrey S. Lehman, Professor of Law and Public Policy, with tenure, also appointed Dean, Law
School, five-year term, July 1, 1994
Nola J. Pender, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs and Research, School of Nursing, three-year term, June 1, 1994
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Charlie Nelms, Ed.D. Chancellor, UM-Flint, five-year term, August 1, 1994
Lawrence Sklar, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, also appointed the James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Professor of Philosophy, five-year term
Bas C. Van Fraassen, Ph.D., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence,
October 24-28, 1994
Michael B. Woodroofe, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure, also appointed the Leonard J. Savage Professor of Statistics, five-year term


281




May Meeting, 1994


Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professorship in Music. The Regents approved the establishment of the Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professorship in
Music, effective September 1, 1994.
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
James C. Snyder, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Mitchell Rycus, term expired
Sharon E. Sutton, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Emmanuel-George Vakalo, term
expired
School of Art Executive Committee
Joanne Leonard, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Theodore K. Ramsay, term expired
Sherril A. Smith, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Louis M. Marinaro, term expired
Georgette M. Zirbes, one-year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Carol A Carter, scholarly activity
leave
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Alicia G. Smith, student representative, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Molly Shaffer,
term expired
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Frederick G. Burgett, three-year term ending October 31, 1997, vice Ronald Heys, term expired
Charlotte M. Mistretta, three-year term ending October 31, 1997, vice Richard Corpron, term
expired
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Gary W. Fowler, reappointed, two-year term ending May 31, 1996
Robert E. Grese, two-year term ending May 31, 1996, vice J. David Allan, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Sally K. Guthrie, three-year term ending June 30,1997, vice Frank J. Ascione, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Barry N. Checkoway, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Sallie Churchill, term expired
Beth G. Reed, reappointed, three-year term ending August 31, 1997
Daniel G. Saunders, one-year term ending August 31, 1995, vice Sheldon Danziger, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Barry A. Bogin, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Kathleen Wider, term expired
Gerald F. Moran, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Sidney Bolkosky, term expired
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Dennis F. Ellis, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Vahid Lotfi, term expired
C. Peethambaran Kartha, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Duncan Kretovich, term
expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted a number of personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
James M. Desimpelare, M.BA, Lecturer in Accounting, May 1, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Tammy Alspector, MA, Lecturer I in Philosophy, May 1, 1994


282




May Meeting, 1994


Becky E. Conekin, BA, Lecturer II in British History, July 1, 1994
Robert J. Denver, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, September 1, 1994
Jeffrey L. Kasser, BA, Lecturer II in Philosophy, July 1, 1994
David P. Mindell, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator, Museum of
Zoology, September 1, 1994
Medical School
Steven E. Gradwohl, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1994
College of Pharmacy
Ira A Cohen, PharrLD., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy, April 11, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Bsiness Administration
Mary Y. Brannen, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of International Business and
Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, September 1, 1994
Medical School
Martha 0. Kershaw, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, January 1, 1994
Joel S. Newman, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, July 1, 1994
John D. Severin, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, January 1, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Joseph G. Rahme, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of History, April 1, 1994
CORRECTION TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
PROMOTION, JOINT APPOINTMENT, OR TRANSFER
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective February 1, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Michael J. Schroeder, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of History (previously reported as
effective March 1, 1994)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Hemalata Dandekar, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
May 1-December 31, 1994
College of Engineering
Kan Chen, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Urban, Technological, and Environmental Planning,
without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1995
Anthony W. England, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Leo C. McAfee, Jr., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Gerard A Mourou, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Andrejs Olte, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995


283




May Meeting, 1994


Stephen C. Rand, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Applied Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1995
William C. Rounds, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Nancy E. Burns, Assistant Professor of Political Science, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Mark Chesler, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Michael D. Cohen, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31,1995
Matthew A. Evangelista, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without
salary, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Raphael S. Ezekiel, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1993
John D. Huber, Assistant Professor of Political Science, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Paul K. Huth, Assistant Professor of Political Science, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Irwin Pollack, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, April 10, 1994 -April 9, 1995
Jo E. Keith Smith, Professor Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure,
extended sick leave, January 1-May 31, 1994
Medical School
Linda B. Terrell, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, leave without salary, January 28 -May 31, 1994
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Donald R. Zak, Assistant Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Donald J. Proctor, Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1994 -April 30, 1995
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Cloyzelle K. Jones, Professor of Education, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 1, 1993 -January 5, 1995
UM    7Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Paul K. Garlick, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, extended sick leave, October 4, 1993 -May 31, 1994
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Donald B. Kersten, Professor of Art, with tenure, June 30, 1994
School of Busies Administration
Debra E. Meyerson, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management
School of Dentistry
Pamela J. Guenzel, Lecturer in Dentistry
School of Education
Calvin 0. Dyer, Professor of Education, with tenure, April 6, 1994


284




May Meeting, 1994


College of Engineering
Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor of Planetary
Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Elmer G. Gilbert, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure
Donald T. Greenwood, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Rodney C. Johnson, Lecturer in Humanities, April 30, 1994
David W. Levy, Lecturer in Aerospace Engineering, June 18, 1993
E. Lawrence McMahon, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, March 25, 1994
Raymond A Yagle, Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Robert B. Brown, Lecturer II in Drama
Tara C. Browner, Lecturer II in American Culture Program, April 30, 1993
Gracia C. Clark, Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Afroamerican and African Studies
Elizabeth E. Guzman, Lecturer III in Spanish
Gina Hausknecht, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, December 31, 1993
Maria T. Koreck, Lecturer I in Women's Studies, May 31, 1993
Neil M. Malamuth, Professor of Communication, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Communication, March 31, 1994
Douglas L. Medin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Mark A Schneider, Lecturer II in Sociology
Jambunatha Sethuraman, Lecturer II in Physics, April 30, 1994
Crispin J. Wright, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and James B. and Grace J. Nelson
Professor of Philosophy
Medical School
Kathran M. Chan, Instructor in Radiology, June 30, 1994
Robert Dauser, Assistant Professor of Surgery, April 22, 1994
Adale M. Walters, Lecturer in Psychiatry, May 1, 1994
School of Music
Peter M. Beudert, Assistant Professor of Theatre
College of Pharmacy
Jennifer B. Dressman, Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, June 30, 1994
Ruth A. C. Opdycke, Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, April 30, 1994
School of Public Health
0. Lynn Deniston, Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure
Roy T. St. Laurent, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, June 30, 1994
Scott K Simonds, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, and
Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, without tenure
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Marie-Jose Bayoff, Lecturer in French, June 30, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Daniel P. Rutledge, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, April 30, 1994
UM-Flint School of Management
John A Larson, Professor of Management, with tenure
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted retirement memoirs
for 17 faculty members.
Keith W. Bryan, professor of music (flute), will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1994.


285




May Meeting, 1994


Professor Bryan received his B.Mus. degree with performer's certificate
from the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, in 1953. Following
graduation, he was a member of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, D.C., from 1953-55, after which he served with the Seventh Army Symphony
Orchestra in Europe (1955-57). He then returned to the National Symphony Orchestra for four additional years (1957-61). During most of this period, Professor
Bryan was also concertizing as a partner in the "Bryan and Keys Duo" with his
wife, Karen Keys, pianist. Beginning with the 1961-62 concert season, the Bryan
and Keys Duo devoted full time to recitals, which included performances in
Belgium, England, France, Germany, and Switzerland, and tours throughout the
United States. Professor Bryan joined the University of Michigan in 1964 as a
guest lecturer in music. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1968, and professor in 1972.
Throughout his tenure at the University, Professor Biyan remained active
as a performer. His recording of Twentieth Century Sonatas for Flute and Piano
was an especially conspicuous highlight of such activities, as was the Bryan and
Keys five-week tour and residency in China during 1985, and Professor Bryan's
premiere performance of a new flute concerto by John La Montaine at the
National Gallery of Art in 1981. In addition to his artistry as a performer,
Professor Bryan is also a sensitive and devoted teacher of flute.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Keith W. Bryan
professor emeritus of music (flute).
0. Lynn Deniston, associate professor of public health policy and administration in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1994.
A native of Ohio, Professor Deniston received his B.S. degree from The Ohio
State University in 1954, his M.P.H. degree from the University of California at
Berkeley in 1962, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1975.
Professor Deniston began his career as a public health professional by working as
a sanitarian for the Ohio Department of Public Health from 1957-63. He came to
the University of Michigan as a research associate in the School of Public Health
in 1964. He received the additional appointment of lecturer in 1966 and was
named associate professor in the Department of Health Planning and Administration (now known as Public Health Policy and Administration) in 1976.
Within the School of Public Health, Professor Deniston concentrated both
his research and teaching in the area of program evaluation, emphasizing the
measurement of health status and quality of life. In the 1970s and '80s, Professor
Deniston was responsible for coordinating the core course for the school's MPH
degree program. Later, he taught the school's course on the history and philosophy of public health. Professor Deniston exhibited a ready willingness to assist
the school in a wide array of endeavors, as reflected in his serving as secretary of
the faculty, coordinator of the blood donor program, and school representative to
the University's recycling office.
Over a quarter of a century's worth of SPH students found Professor Deniston to be an unusually accessible and helpful academic advisor and mentor. He
was revered for an "open-door policy" that found him eager to devote long hours
to working with individual students. He also made significant efforts to keep in


286




May Meeting, 1994


touch with alumni, efforts eased by the fact that alumni often sought him out,
whether it be for career counseling or simply to sustain highly-valued friendships. His dedication to working with public health practitioners extended into
Professor Deniston's many contributions to state and local health departments,
particularly in the area of his greatest expertise, program evaluation.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming 0. Lynn Deniston
associate professor emeritus of public health policy and administration.
Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor of Planetary Science, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space
Sciences in the College of Engineering, and professor of physics in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,
1994.
Professor Donahue received his AB. degree from Rockhurst College in 1942
and his Ph.D. degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1947. He held positions
at Johns Hopkins until 1951, when he joined the faculty of the University of
Pittsburgh. There he organized a program in atomic physics and atmospheric science that led to studies of the upper atmosphere with instruments flown on
sounding rockets and spacecraft. At Pittsburgh, he became associate professor in
1953 and served as director of both the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space
Sciences and the Space Coordination Center.
In 1974, Professor Donahue joined the University of Michigan as professor
and chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences; he served as
chair until 1980 and was appointed professor of physics in 1989. Professor Donahue has participated in the Orbiting Geophysical Observatory, Voyager, Pioneer
Venus, Galileo, and Cassini spacecraft missions and is the author of more than
150 publications. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the
International Academy of Astronautics and is a fellow of the American Geophysical Union and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. His
honors include the Arctowski Medal of the National Academy of Sciences, the
John Adam Fleming Medal of the American Geophysical Union, the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, and the Space Science Award from the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. At the University of Michigan, he
was the Henry Russel Lecturer in 1986 and received the Stephen S. Attwood
Award for Excellence in Engineering in 1994.
Professor Donahue knows as much about the planets, especially Venus, as
anyone in the world today. His brilliance is legendary, both as an experimentalist
and as a theoretician. He has served on numerous national advisory boards and
has held visiting titles at major institutions. Professor Donahue has also served
on countless University committees and programs, including the Project for the
Integrated Study of Global Change.
The Regents now salute this member of the faculty for his outstanding
career by naming Thomas M. Donahue the Edward H. White II Distinguished
University Professor Emeritus of Planetary Science and professor emeritus of
physics.
Peter W. Ferran, associate professor of theatre, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1994.


287




May Meeting, 1994


Professor Ferran received his AB. degree from the College of the Holy Cross
in Worcester, Massachusetts, in 1960. He served in the U.S. Army from 1962-64,
then taught at The American School in Switzerland (Lugano) from 1964-66. He
then enrolled at the University of Michigan, where he received his M.A. degree in
1967 and his Ph.D. degree in 1972, with considerable emphasis on the work of
Bertolt Brecht-an interest that he pursued throughout his academic career. Following three years of service as a teaching fellow concurrent with his graduate
studies, Professor Ferran began a long and significant association with the University's Residential College as lecturer in drama (1970-73), assistant professor of
English (1973-79), and associate professor of theatre and drama (1979-1985). He
spent the academic year 1983-84 as visiting professor of literature and drama at
Franklin College in Lugano, Switzerland. In 1975, he received the University's
Distinguished Service Award.
Professor Ferran's teaching has included fundamentals of d rama  tic
theory and criticism, play writing, arts and ideas, and intensive German, in addition to the practically ever-present emphasis on Brecht. He was a founding member of the Residential College Brecht Company in which he involved himself as
actor, director, and-as an avocational musician of considerable prowess-performer and composer. He is author of several published articles and reviews and
has lectured repeatedly at the Oregon Shakespearean Festival and Modem Languages Association meetings.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Peter W. Ferran
associate professor emeritus of theatre.
Bernard A. Galler, professor of electrical engineering and computer
science, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, following 38 years
of service.
Professor Galler received two bachelor's degrees, in 1946 and 1947, from the
University of Chicago, a master's degree in 1949 from the University of California at Los Angeles, and a Ph.D. degree in 1955 from the University of Chicago.
He joined the University of Michigan Department of Mathematics in 1955 as an
instructor, he was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in
1962, and professor in 1966.
As a pioneer in the field of computer science, Professor Galler helped shape
this discipline at the University. In the early 1960s, he was active in the development of the new Communication Sciences Program, and in 1966, he became associate director of the Computing Center. His association with the Computing
Center continued through 1991, during a period of tremendous growth and
change in the areas of computer science and computing services. He became a
charter member of the new Department of Computer and Communication
Sciences (CCS) in 1966 and served as chair of the department from 1973-75. In
1984, Professor Galler was instrumental in negotiating the merger of the CCS
Department and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science.
The Department of Computer and Communication Sciences was one of the
first of its kind in the country, so it is not surprising that Professor Galler was
influential in the development of the software and mathematics curriculum for
computer science. Professor Galler has also provided vital service to the wider


288




May Meeting, 1994


University community, serving as associate dean for long-range planning in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts from 1975-79, and on many
University-wide committees and task forces over the years. Despite all of his
administrative responsibilities, he has served as undergraduate counselor for the
computer science degree program for many years.
On the national level, Professor Galler served as an officer of the Association
for Computing Machinery (ACM) from its earliest days, including the presidency
from 1968-70; in 1980, the ACM awarded him its Distinguished Service Award
for his contributions to the field. He has served on many other national boards
and committees and has been recognized by his peers with numerous awards and
honors. In recent years, he has been instrumental in developing a national record
of the history of computing.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Bernard A Galler professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.
Arinando A. Ghitalla, professor of music (trumpet), will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Ghitalla received his B.S. degree from the Juilliard School of
Music in 1950, after which he embarked on a highly distinguished career as
trumpet performer. Following service as principal trumpet in the New York City
Opera Orchestra and then in the Houston Symphony Orchestra, Professor
Ghitalla became principal trumpet in the Boston Symphony Orchestra-a post
he occupied with elan for 28 years (1951-79). While principally engaged in
orchestral performance, Professor Ghitalla also taught part-time at the Tanglewood Music Center (summer home of the Boston Symphony Orchestra), Boston
University, and the New England Conservatory of Music. He came to the
University of Michigan in 1979 as professor of music (trumpet).
At the University of Michigan, Professor Ghitalla gave a decade and a half of
dedicated, expert, gentle, yet demanding instruction to aspiring young trumpeters. In 1991, he was given the Harold Haugh Award for excellence in studio
instruction, in recognition of his outstanding effectiveness in teaching. A noteworthy characteristic of his relationship with students is that it did not begin and
end at his office door: an enthusiastic and dashing cook, Professor Ghitalla furnished many an impecunious student with gourmet cuisine otherwise unavailable to them, regaling them with music "war stories" and arming them with
valuable practical information about American orchestral life.
During his tenure at Michigan, Professor Ghitalla was a frequent guest
recitalist and visiting teacher throughout the United States. In 1980, he made a
tour of Italy performing concerts, and in 1982 he visited Japan, giving an
extended series of recitals. With typical kindness and generosity, Professor
Ghitalla capped his career on the Michigan faculty by donating 23 valuable trumpets to the Steams Collection of Musical Instruments, and his life-long collection
of materials and music associated with trumpet performance to the music
library. Principally though, he gave of himself, his talent, his wide experience,
and his deep love of his art. Generations of students are in his debt.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty by naming
Armando A Ghitalla professor emeritus of music (trumpet).


289




May Meeting, 1994


Elmer G. Gilbert, professor of aerospace engineering and professor of
electrical engineering and computer science, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1994.
Professor Gilbert received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in 1952, 1953,
and 1957, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. He joined the
Department of Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering (now aerospace
engineering) as an instructor in 1953 and was promoted to assistant professor in
1957, associate professor in 1959, and professor in 1963. In 1987, he received an
additional appointment as professor of electrical engineering and computer
science.
Professor Gilbert was instrumental in establishing strong graduate-level
programs in information and control engineering, computer, information and
control engineering, and aerospace engineering. His high standards of scholarship have had a major influence on the control curriculum, with his emphasis on
depth of understanding and mastery rather than superficial understanding of
isolated topics. Professor Gilbert has also been extremely productive in the guidance of graduate students, having chaired 22 Ph.D. dissertation committees and
influenced many other graduate students in other departments.
A productive researcher, Professor Gilbert has made numerous contributions in the areas of dynamic-system simulation, linear systems and control
theory, optimal control of aerospace and robotics systems, and numerical optimization techniques. He was also one of the founders, in 1957, of Applied Dynamics
International, an Ann Arbor company that is a leading supplier of high-speed
digital computers for simulation. He holds nine patents in simulation and control
technology.
Professor Gilbert is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers and received two IEEE Control Systems Society best paper awards.
He was also elected to the Johns Hopkins Society of Fellows and received a University of Michigan Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award. In 1993, he
delivered the plenary speech at the American Control Conference in Chicago.
Most recently, Professor Gilbert received the IEEE Control Systems Award and
was elected to the National Academy of Engineering.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding career by
naming Elmer G. Gilbert professor emeritus of aerospace engineering and professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
L. A. Peter Gosling, professor of Southeast Asian studies in the Department of Anthropology, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994,
after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Professor Gosling received his AB. degree in 1952, his M.A. degree in 1953,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1958, all from the University of Michigan. He joined the
Department of Geography as an instructor in 1956 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1970. During
his tenure in the Department of Geography, he served two terms as chair of the
department. He transferred to the Department of Anthropology in 1982.


290




May Meeting, 1994


Professor Gosling was a founder of the Center for South and Southeast
Asian Studies and served three times as its director. In 1983, he started the
Southeast Asia Business Program, the only program of its kind in the country,
and served as its director until 1993. He also served for thirteen years as the chief
administrative officer of the Association for Asian Studies, the world's largest
learned society for Asia specialists, which is based at the University of Michigan.
Although he has conducted field research and consulted throughout Asia,
Professor Gosling has specialized in Southeast Asia, where he has conducted extensive field research on rural development, population movement, and ethnic
relations. He has served as consultant to a number of international development
agencies and foundations, including the United Nations, the U.S. Agency for International Development, The World Bank, and the Ford Foundation, and
taught at the University of Malaya. Professor Gosling has also served as chair of
the National Research Council-National Academy of Science Advisory Committee
on Geography, and on committees for such organizations as the Social Science
Research Council, American Council of Learned Societies, the National Humanities Alliance, the Association of American Geographers, the Asia Society, the
Ford Foundation, and the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service
by naming L. A Peter Gosling professor emeritus of Southeast Asian studies.
Donald T. Greenwood, professor of aerospace engineering, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after an outstanding career at the
University of Michigan.
Professor Greenwood received his B.S. degree in 1944, his M.S. degree in
1948, and his Ph.D. degree in 1951, all from the California Institute of Technology. From 1951-56, he worked at Lockheed Aircraft and the University of Southern California in the area of analog computing. He joined the University of
Michigan in 1956 as an assistant professor in the Department of Aeronautical
and Astronautical Engineering (now aerospace engineering); he was promoted to
associate professor in 1957, and professor in 1963.
Professor Greenwood is best known for his exceptional books on dynamics.
These books provide more than a good exposition on this fundamental subject;
they focus on the practice of solving difficult dynamics problems. This focus was
reinforced by Professor Greenwood in the courses he taught, which earned a
reputation for posing challenging problems that tested the limits of his students'
understanding and abilities. Students have benefited greatly from his thoughtful
explanations and his emphasis on exploiting physical insight in solving problems.
In recognition of his considerable teaching skills, Professor Greenwood was
awarded the Good Teaching Award by the college in 1986.
Professor Greenwood's areas of interest have included dynamics, analog
computation, computer simulation of dynamic systems, control systems, and constrained dynamical systems. He has published numerous articles in scientific and
engineering journals, many conference proceedings, two books on dynamics, and
a book chapter on network analogies of dynamic systems. He has also been a
member of many scientific and professional societies. In addition to his professional accomplishments, Professor Greenwood has been a valued and dedicated
member of the department. In particular, his dedication as an adviser to


291




May Meeting, 1994


freshman and other undergraduate engineering students, and to graduate students, is widely recognized. Professor Greenwood has made enormous contributions to the educational program of the department.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding service by
naming Donald T. Greenwood professor emeritus of aerospace engineering.
John A. Larson, professor of management at the University of MichiganFlint, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a most productive career as a teacher, researcher, and administrator.
A native of Arkansas, Professor Larson received his M.B.A degree in
accounting (1948) and his Ph.D. degree in political science (1956) from
Northwestern University. He was an officer in the U.S. Navy during World War
II. From 1947-76, Professor Larson taught at Little Rock Junior College, Northwestern University, the University of Tennessee, the University of California at
Berkeley, the University of California at Davis, Stanford University, Pacific
Lutheran University, and the University of Michigan. During that time, he also
worked for the Business Executives' Research Council of Chicago, the North
Central Association-Commission on Institutions of Higher Education, and the
Brookings Institution. He joined the University of Michigan-Flint in 1976 as
professor of management and as the first dean of the newly-established School of
Management. He served as dean until 1980 and was instrumental in leading and
developing the department by expanding the faculty and degree programs.
Professor Larson has been the recipient of several honors during his career,
including the Faculty Achievement Award for Distinguished Service (1985) and a
nomination for Educator of the Year (1988) award by the Sales and Marketing
Executives of Flint. He is a member of Beta Gamma Sigma (1948) and served as
president of its Flint chapter from 1985-87. He is also a member of the accounting fraternity Beta Alpha Psi (1948). In 1977, he was awarded the Shield of the
Trojan, an annual alumni award, by the University of Arkansas at Little Rock
In addition to serving on numerous departmental and campus-wide committees
on the Flint campus, Professor Larson has been involved in the Rotary Club of
Flint (president, 1988-89) and has served in leadership positions with the First
Presbyterian Church of Flint.
The Regents now salute this distinguished business educator for his dedicated service by naming John A Larson professor emeritus of management.
John D. Mohler, professor of music (clarinet), will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Mohler studied at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia
from 1948-50. From 1950-54, he served with the U.S. Marine Corps Band in
Washington, D.C., while continuing his studies part time at Catholic University
of America. Following his discharge from the Marine Corps, he enrolled at the
University of Michigan, where he earned his B.Mus., M.Mus., and AMus.D.
degrees in 1956, 1957, and 1960, respectively. Professor Mobler served as an
instructor at Drake University from 1960-62, before joining the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor of music in 1962. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1965 and professor in 1970. During the
summer months, he also taught at the Brevard Music Center in North Carolina,


292




May Meeting, 1994


the Cumberland Forest Music Camp in Morehead, Kentucky, and the National
Music Camp in Interlochen.
During the course of his career, Professor Mohler gave many performances
as a recitalist and chamber musician at sister institutions, including Alabama
State University, Brigham Young University, the College of William and Mary,
Oberlin College, The Ohio State University, Old Dominion University, and the
universities of Maryland, North Carolina, and Western Ontario, among others.
His long teaching career has yielded a large and devoted cadre of admirers, and
he received the Harold Haugh Award for excellence in studio instruction in 1979.
At the University of Michigan, Professor Mohler gave dozens, if not
hundreds, of performances as a member of the University Woodwind Quintet,
which presented concerts not only in Ann Arbor but also in outlying regions of
the state. He also took a leadership role in School of Music affairs as chair of his
department and member of the executive committee and of the scholarship
committee. He also served terms on the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics and as a member of Senate Assembly. In 1986, he was president of the
International Clarinet Society.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming John D. Mohler professor emeritus of music (clarinet).
Arch W. Naylor, professor of electrical engineering and computer science,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Naylor received his B.S. degree in 1952 from the University of
California at Berkeley. After serving in the U.S. Army, he returned to the
University of California for graduate work from  1955-56. From  1957-58,
Professor Naylor was a Fulbright Scholar at Technical University, Delft, Netherlands, after which he entered the University of Michigan, where he earned his
Ph.D. degree in 1960. He joined the faculty as assistant professor of electrical
engineering (now known as electrical engineering and computer science) in 1960
and was promoted to associate professor in 1963 and professor in 1969.
While a graduate student at Michigan, Professor Naylor worked as a
research associate with the Electronics Defense Group at the Cooley Electronics
Laboratory. His research in control systems has been internationally recognized,
as shown by prestigious visiting appointments at the Technical University at
Delft in 1963-64, the Laboratoire d'Automatique, Institut Polytechnique, Universit6 de Grenoble from 1967-78, the University of Chile in 1969, and the Institut
National de Recherche en Informatique en Automatique in Versailles, France, in
1989. In addition, he always maintained an active involvement in industry,
working at the Collins Radio Company while a student at Berkeley, and at
Phillips Company, Europe's largest electronics firm, while studying in The
Netherlands. He has also served as a consultant to numerous firms throughout
his career.
Professor Naylor helped introduce the developing field of information and
control engineering at the University, directing numerous research programs,
introducing important graduate courses, and publishing extensively in technical
journals. The governor's High Technology Task Force recognized these
accomplishments by appointing him acting director of the Michigan Industrial
Technology Institute during its formative period from 1982-83. Professor


293




May Meeting, 1994


Naylor's University service includes membership on several key committees,
including SACUA (elected in 1978; chair in 1980-81) and the College of Engineering Executive Committee (1987-1990).
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his many years of service
by naming Arch W. Naylor professor emeritus of electrical engineering and
computer science.
Richard H. Sands, research scientist in the Biophysics Research Division
and professor of physics, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994,
after a distinguished career as a researcher and teacher.
A native of California, Professor Sands received his B.S. degree from the
University of Redlands in 1950 and his Ph.D. degree from Washington University (St. Louis) in 1954. Professor Sands came to the University of Michigan in
1957 as assistant professor of physics, and together with Professor Peter
Franken established a pioneering program in atomic physics. He was promoted
to associate professor in 1960 and professor in 1965, and has been associated
with the Biophysics Research Division since its inception in 1964.
Professor Sands is a renowned spectroscopist who has pioneered the applications of spectroscopy to studies of proteins. In 1959, with Helmut Beinert, he
made the first electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) measurements on a protein involved in oxidation-reduction (redox) reactions. During the course of his
career, he has developed or initiated a number of techniques, including highpower electron-nuclear double resonance (ENDOR), wide-band electron-electron
double resonance (ELDOR), and multi-frequency EPR spectroscopy. For the past
20 years, his laboratory has been one of the leaders in applications of Mossbauer
spectroscopy to the study of metalloproteins. One of Professor Sands' outstanding achievements was the elucidation of the structure of the active center of the
two-iron ferredoxins by spectroscopic analyses-an effort that combined information from magnetic susceptibility, EPR, ENDOR, Mossbauer, and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) methods to give an accurate picture of the atomic and
electronic structure of [2Fe-2S] centers. Professor Sands has also made crucial
contributions to the knowledge of molecular structure and function in several
other subclasses of redox proteins, including the cytochromes and flavoproteins.
In addition to his research activities, Professor Sands served as chair of the
Department of Physics from 1977-82 and provided a variety of service for the
graduate school, University-wide committees, the Program in Biophysics, and
IST. He has also brought his great energies to bear on both undergraduate and
graduate teaching at all levels. He has chaired 20 Ph.D. dissertation committees
and has consistently taught at the freshman/sophomore level.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist/educator for his dedicated service by naming Richard H. Sands research scientist emeritus and professor emeritus of physics.
Scott KE Simonds, professor of health behavior and health education and
professor of public health policy and administration in the School of Public
Health, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994.


294




May Meeting, 1994


Professor Simonds earned his B.A degree in 1949 from Occidental College.
He received his M.P.H. and Dr.P.H. degrees in 1952 and 1966, respectively, from
the University of California, Berkeley. From 1962-66, he was chief health education consultant and acting head of the state heart disease control program for the
U.S. Public Health Service. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1966
as associate professor of health education (now health behavior and health education), and was promoted to professor in 1971. He received the additional
appointment as professor of public health policy and administration in 1991.
While at the School of Public Health, Professor Simonds served as the director of the Program in Health Education, assistant dean for curriculum, and director of the Non-Residential Program in Public Health Policy and
Administration. His teaching has been central to the training of students in
health behavior and health education.
Professor Simonds has long been a national and international leader in
health education. He is a distinguished fellow of the Society for Public Health
Education, and was given the Distinguished Career Award by the American Public Health Association. In 1971, he was appointed by the president to the
National Committee on Health Education. He directed a collaborative study of
competency assessment procedures with the University of Limburg in The Netherlands and has been a frequent consultant to the World Health Organization.
His state and local service includes membership on the Governor's Environmental Education Task Force, the Superintendent's Advisory Committee on
Health Education, and the Health Education Advisory Group of the United
Community Services of Metropolitan Detroit. But it is as a teacher that Professor
Simonds will be most remembered, for he brought to the classroom a deep understanding of health education practice and policy. His classes were real-world oriented and generated a high level of interest and enthusiasm among all involved.
He used innovative teaching techniques and spearheaded the establishment of
competency-based curricula in his department and the school. He has been an
honored and distinguished colleague whose work has enriched the professional
preparation of countless numbers of public health students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Scott K Simonds
professor emeritus of health behavior and health education and professor emeritus of public health policy and administration.
William B. Stapp, professor of resource planning and conservation, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a productive career as a
teacher and researcher.
Professor Stapp earned his B.S. degree in 1951, his M.A degree in 1958, and
his Ph.D. degree in 1963, all from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty of the School of Natural Resources in 1964 as a lecturer. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1965, was awarded tenure in 1967, and was promoted to
professor in 1970. During his career, Professor Stapp focused on the root causes
of environmental problems and on educating people to find solutions to those
problems. He and his students are largely responsible for the spread of
environmental education into the curricula of schools around the globe.
In the 1960s and 1970s, Professor Stapp expanded his efforts in environmental education from the local level to the national and international levels as


295




May Meeting, 1994


an advisor to U.S. government agencies and as the first director of the Environmental Education Program for the United Nations (UNESCO) in Paris. Professor Stapp was a founder and first president of the North American Association of
Environmental Education and has worked with the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature in Geneva, the United Nations Environment
Progrmme in Nairobi, and a host of other programs and projects in both
industrialized and developing nations. In 1989, Professor Stapp founded the
Global Rivers Environmental Education Network (GREEN), which grew out of a
1986-87 science project at the School of Natural Resources and Environment. Today, GREEN    is an independent organization linking teachers, students,
administrators, and professionals in river education programs in all 50 states and
125 countries.
A researcher and author of international renown, Professor Stapp has participated in workshops, conferences, industrial programs, and sponsored research
activities throughout the world. He has received more than 40 international,
national, and provincial awards for his accomplishments in the field of
environmental education, including the President's Environmental and Conservation Challenge Award in 1992. At the same time, he has remained a strong
force at the School of Natural Resources and Environment, preparing hundreds
of students from all over the world to be researchers and educators in the environmental education field. He is indeed an exemplary model of both an educator
and a world citizen.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming William   B. Stapp professor emeritus of resource planning and
conservation.
George B. Wilson, professor of music (composition), will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Wilson earned his B.Mus. degree in 1951, his M.Mus. degree in
1953, and his A.Mus.D. degree in 1962, all from the University of Michigan. He
undertook additional studies at the Conservatoire Royale de Musique, Bruxelles
(1953-54); the Ecole d'Artes Americaines, Fountainebleau (1954); and the
Tanglewood Music Center (1955). He joined the University of Michigan faculty
as a lecturer in 1961 and was promoted to instructor in 1963, assistant professor
in 1964, associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1971.
Professor Wilson served as director of the Electronic Music Studios from
1964 until his retirement, taking principal responsibility for the construction and
on-going development of that facility, aided by four successive grants from the
National Endowment for the Arts in the early 1980s. He was a founding member
of the Society for Electro-Acoustic Music in the United States, which honored
him upon his retirement. In 1967, Professor Wilson helped to found the Contemporary Directions Ensemble, which is dedicated to the performance of new music-primarily that of students-and has continuing importance to date.
Throughout his teaching career, Professor Wilson has always been a powerful advocate for students-utterly devoted to their well-being and to the development of their talents. His impact on their thinking has been enormous. Professor
Wilson's own compositions are not numerous but are of very high quality: they
have been performed by such noteworthy performers as Pierre Boulez and


296




May Meeting, 1994


Gunther Schuller, and in locales as diverse as Bergen (Norway), Boston, Bourge
(France), Rome, and Wichita (Kansas). The quality of his compositions has been
recognized by his having received awards from the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers; the Walter Hinrichsen Award for Composers; an
award and citation from the National Institute of Arts and Letters; a Society for
the Publication of American Music Award; and the Rome Prize.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming George B. Wilson
professor emeritus of music (composition).
Raymond A. Yagle, professor of naval architecture and marine engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after 45 years of
service.
Professor Yagle received his B.S. degree in 1944 and his M.S. degree in 1947,
both from the University of Michigan. Following his initial appointment at the
University of Michigan's Engineering Research Institute as a lecturer in 1950, he
was appointed assistant professor in the Department of Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering in 1955. He was promoted to associate professor in 1961 and
to professor in 1965.
During his career, Professor Yagle taught an exceptionally wide range of
courses and introduced a number of new courses in computer applications and
ocean engineering. He served as undergraduate program advisor for several decades, taking an important role in the revision of the program and in developing
concepts and procedures.
Professor Yagle chaired and served on many important national and international technical committees and on a number of departmental, college, and
University committees. His many technical papers, reports, and chapters in
books have made valuable contributions to marine technology. Recognized as a
leading authority on undergraduate education for the marine industry, Professor
Yagle has also written many papers on this subject. In 1993, Professor Yagle
received the department's Outstanding Service Award.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his many years of service
by naming Raymond A Yagle professor emeritus of naval architecture and marine engineering.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the consent agenda as listed above.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl R. Smith, director of university audits, submitted the Six Month
Report on University Audits.


297




May Meeting, 1994


State Auditor General Report and Response-Selected State Universities' General Fund Reimbursement for Services Provided to Auxiliary
Activities Universities' Fiscal Year 1990-91
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
voted unanimously to accept the State Auditor General Report and Response-Selected State Universities' General Fund Reimbursement for Services Provided to Auxiliay Activitives Universities' Fiscal Year 1990-91, and to approve the
response.
University Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular
A-133 Audit Reports and Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1993
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the University Federal Office
of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133 Audit Reports and Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1993.
Summary of Recommendations and Responses to Nonmaterial Findings on Specific Compliance and Internal Control Matters as Reported
by Ernst & Young
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a summary of recommendations and responses for the year ended June 30, 1993, to nonmaterial findings on
specific compliance and internal control matters as reported by Ernst & Young,
as required by OMB Circular A-133.
Alternative Asset Investments
Regent McFee moved that follow-on investments be made with the approval
of two University officers as provided for in Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07.2.a on
approval of investment transactions, for situations where the Board has approved an investment in a fund sponsored by the same group with essentially the
same strategy and core investment personnel. Further, she moved that add-on
investments of up to 10 percent of the original commitment amount, be made
with the approval of two University officers as required in Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07.2.a, provided that the add-on investment is consistent with the original
strategy of the fund.
Following some discussion, Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Venture Capital Investments (Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VII,
LP.)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $5 million of the University Endowment Fund to Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VII, L.P., pending a favorable
review of the partnership documents by the general counsel's office.


298




May Meeting, 1994


Venture Capital Investments (Prudential Asia Private Equity Fund,
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment
Fund to Prudential Asia Private Equity Fund, L.P., pending a favorable review
of the partnership documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's
office.
Venture Capital Investments (Vector Later Stage Equity Fund, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5 million of the University Endowment
fund to Vector Later Stage Equity Fund, L.P., pending a favorable review of the
partnership documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's
office.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project Phase II; UMDearborn Campus Support Services Facility
Chancellor Renick reported that the Dearborn campus was very excited
about these projects.
Mr. Douglas Hanna, university architect, first described Phase II of the UMDearborn General Campus Renovation Project, which will address the needs of
the School of Management, the Center for Engineering Education and Practice,
the Professional and Continuing Education program, and the general campus
need for lecture halls. He displayed a site plan, floor plans of each floor, and renderings of each facility to be constructed as part of the project.
Mr. Hanna then described the proposed design for the UM-Dearborn Campus Support Services facility, displaying a site plan, floor plans, and renderings of
the building.
Following some discussion, Regent McFee moved approval of the design of
the UM-Dearborn's General Campus Renovation Project Phase II and the design
of the UM-Dearborn Campus Support Services project. Regent Power seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Dearborn Museum of Art
Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, described planned uses for the proposed museum of art on the Dearborn campus, noting that this has been designated as one of 12 projects for the campus' MCampaign. He described the project
and displayed a map of the proposed site. Following his presentation, Regent
Baker moved approval of the proposed site for the UM-Dearborn Museum of Art.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Dearborn Parking Fees
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the annual parking fees on the Dearborn
campus from $72.00 to $80.00, effective September 1, 1994.


299




May Meeting, 1994


University of Michigan Representation on the Board of the Chelsea
Arbor Treatment Center
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Patricia Warner to represent the University on the board of the Chelsea Arbor Treatment Center.
UM Hospitals Single Room Maternity Care Project
Regent McFee moved approval of a project and budget to reconfigure the
fourth floor of Mott Hospital to function as a single room maternity care space
(birthing unit); appointment of an architect; submission of a Certificate of Need
(CoN) to the Michigan Department of Public Health; and soliciting bids and
awarding a construction contract, providing the contract value is within the
approved budget and a CoN approval is received. Regent Varner seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Utility Easement and Construction Easement
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the grant of two easements on University-owned land
near the intersection of Plymouth and Earhardt Roads, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: 1) Development of space at 1239
Kipke Drive; 2) Outdoor track renovations for the Department of Intercollegiate
Athletics; 3) Yost Ice Arena boiler and transformer replacement for the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics; 4) UMH operating room upgrade power and
data project; 5) UMH card reader system replacement project; 6) UMH MedInn
replacement fire pump project; 7) UMH Americans with Disabilities Act compliance project; 8) UMH funme abatement project; 9) UMH replacement of equipment and upgrading of three Pediatric Radiology imaging rooms; 10) UMH
Radiology CT Scanner upgrades (also includes approval to submit Certificate of
Need application to the Michigan Department of Public Health); and 11) UMH
stereotactic radiosurgery program project (also includes approval to submit Certificate of Need application to the Michigan Department of Public Health).
Purchase Contract with a University Employee (Marcia Watkins)
Regent McGowan moved, Regent Varner seconded, and all six Regents present unanimously approved a purchase contract between the Regents of the University of Michigan and Marcia Watkins. Because Ms. Watkins is also a
University employee, this purchase contract falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and Marcia Watkins.


300




May Meeting, 1994


2.   The terms of the purchase contract are a one time purchase of a unique and
original large soft-sculpted African tribal doll, for the sum of $400. The doll and
its donated mate will be displayed in the UM-Flint chancellor's office suite in
the University Pavilion. Other than payment of the purchase price, no facilities,
services, or employees of the University of Michigan will be involved in the
purchase.
3.   Professor Watldns' pecuniary interest arises from her creation and ownership
of the dolls as a freelance artist and receipt of revenues from her artwork
Clinical Trial Subcontract with St. Joseph Mercy Hospital and the
Emergency Physicians Medical Group
Regent Deitch moved, Regent Power seconded, and all six Regents present
unanimously approved a clinical trial subcontract between the Regents of the
University of Michigan, St. Joseph Mercy Hospital (SJMH), and the Emergency
Physicians Medical Group (EPMG). Because one of the physicians involved in
the subcontract, James Mitchiner, is an employee of SJMH, EPMG, and the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The subcontract to be signed is in compliance with University policies and in
accord with the terms of its contract with the Upjohn Company. The University
will pay $5,000 to SJMH, which sum includes direct and indirect costs.
2.   Dr. Mitchiner's financial interest arises from the salary he receives from SJMH
and EPMG. He plays no role with regard to the University's performance on
the prime contract.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1995
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following schedule of meetings for 1995:
January 19-20                    July 20-21
February 16-17                   August-no meeting
March 16*-17                     September 21-22
April 20-21                      October 19**-20
May 18-19                        November 16-17
June 15-16                       December 14-15
*t    Held at UM-Dearborn
$2B  EHeld at UM-Flint
Changes in Bylaws, Rules and Regulations of the UM Medical Staff
Regent Deitch moved approval of proposed changes in the Medical Staff
Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations, as outlined in the Regents Communication.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


301




May Meeting, 1994


Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, and on the recommendation of the executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals, the
Regents unanimously approved a number of appointments to medical staff
membership.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:45 am.
The next meeting will be held June 16 and 17, 1994. Regents' expenses for the
month of April 1994 totalled $888.45.
Richard L. enneay, Secrery


302




JUNE MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 16, 1994
Public Comments
The Regents met at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy was also
present, as were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim Chancellor Kugler,
and Chancellor Renick. Regent Varner was absent.
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated: Mike Christie, Jr., a student and member of Michigan Student Assembly,
on textbook prices; Wayne A Wolbert, student, on a United Farm Workers boycott of California grapes; and Marcia Federbush, citizen, on inequities between
men's and women's gymnastics.
Following the completion of the public comments session at 4:20 p.m., the
meeting recessed until the following day.
Friday, June 17, 1994
The Regents met at 9:00 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy was also present, as
were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, Interim Chancellor Kugler, and Chancellor
Renick.
Internal Audit of Department of Communications            Endowment
Accounts
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and observed that a routine, internal audit of Department of Communications endowment accounts had
raised questions about whether certain expenditures that had been charged to
that account were consistent with the stated intent of the endowments. He emphasized that the issue was not whether the expenditures themselves were inappropriate, but whether they had been charged to the proper accounts.
After receiving the audit, the University had immediately removed the
charges in question and had made the endowment accounts whole. He noted that
the matter had received unusual attention by the local media.


303




June Meeting, 1994


The fiundamental issue, he noted, is the University's stewardship over gifts
contributed to support its activities. He stated that the University accepts full responsibility for ensuring that all funds contributed are spent for the purposes intended by the donors. This is accomplished by certification, which means making
certain that those who have authority to spend resources from endowment accounts certify that they understand the purpose of those endowments and that to
the best of their knowledge the expenditures they authorize are consistent with
those purposes. If it is found that questions are raised about charges to the accounts, the departments are required to make restitution by transferring funds
from other sources to the endowment accounts. He said he believes that the dual
approach of certification and restitution provides an effective method to ensure
that all funds contributed to the University are utilized for the purpose intended
by the donor.
President Duderstadt noted that there are 3,000 endowment or fundsfunctioning-as-endowment accounts, and each has an authorized signer who
bears primary responsibility for complying with the wishes of a donor. However,
a memorandum is to be sent to all deans, directors, and department heads to reemphasize their responsibility for assuring that all expenditures are in accordance both with University policies and with restrictions placed by the donors.
Each dean has been asked to review the guidelines for endowment expenditures,
and to certify that guidelines do exist for each endowment or restricted account
and that authorized signers are knowledgeable about these guidelines. The same
memorandum will be sent with account statements to project directors of such
funds. Further, all documents requesting or authorizing expenditures against
donor-restricted accounts will contain a certification that will ensure that the requested expenditure is consistent with the donor's wishes and contributions.
Each academic unit will be required to submit annually to the provost a brief
written description of the activity supported by the endowment or the fund, and
to certify that all expenditures against each endowment were consistent with the
purposes of the gift. Where such expenditures are found to be inconsistent, the
units will be required to make restitution.
Executive Vice President Womack expressed agreement that this was the
proper approach to take. Regent Brown observed that this matter was extremely
important to the Regents as well as to the University, and that it is essential that
alumni, donors, and prospective donors have complete confidence that gifts will
be used in accordance with the donor's designation. Regent Baker pointed out
that the process already in place had worked, as the expenditures that had been
charged improperly to the endowment accounts had been discovered through an
internal audit.
Regent Deitch pointed out that the more vague the goals of a particular endowment, the easier it is to charge expenditures against it improperly. He suggested that there be a central office that would consider whether the donor's
intent was being followed. He also suggested considering the idea of personal responsibility, rather than departmental responsibility, for improperly charged
expenditures.


304




June Meeting, 1994


Provost Whitaker observed that the current practice is to have endowment
gifts reviewed by an attorney in the development office, which results in more
clarity about the purposes of the gifts than what used to be the case. Executive
Vice President Womack pointed out that the best type of gifts are unrestricted
gifts, which place in the dean's hands the ability to determine the most appropriate use for them. He stated that the responsibility for determining which expenditures are in keeping with the donor's restrictions should lie not with a central
office, but with those who are responsible for the school or department. A preaudit would not constitute a sufficient control over the expenditures of these
funds. According to Executive Vice President Womack, restrictions on spending
are best applied by the individual authorized by the institution to sign for
expenditures.
Regent Power noted that there are problems with restricted endowments
created by the passage of time, and that the new guidelines would help clarify instances where such problems exist. He also pointed out that this whole episode is
an indication that the system works as it is intended to work An internal audit
had discovered instances in which money had been spent legally, but not in accordance with the purposes of the endowments. The findings had been aired; a
remedy, restitution, had been implemented; and the incident had triggered the
University's clarifying its policies with respect to these matters.
Report of the UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget and Finance Committee
President Duderstadt called on Professor Seth Hirshorn, chair of the UMDearborn faculty senate, to present the report of the Senate Budget and Finance
Committee. Professor Hirshorn stated that the committee embraces the administration's goals in the following areas: 1) improving the quality of undergraduate
and graduate education; 2) limiting tuition increases; 3) improving the research
environment to enable the faculty to make its contribution to improving society
through research and development; and 4) increasing faculty salaries.
Professor Hirshorn observed that the branch campuses provide quality undergraduate education to a substantial portion of instate students. He also noted
that the Dearborn campus had recently educated its 1000th graduate student,
which is a landmark in the maturation of the campus and indicates that many
faculty members are engaged in graduate, as well as undergraduate education.
The campus has also reached a milestone of $1 million in contracted research activities, which is significant, given the fact that most faculty are so heavily involved in teaching activities. The chancellor has set a goal of $10 million in
contracted research over the next few years, which means that the Dearborn
campus will have to strengthen faculty relations with the Ann Arbor campus in
attaining that goal.
In the area of faculty salaries, Professor Hirshorn pointed out that the Dearborn faculty have consistently lagged behind peer institutions, and that longterm faculty, who have committed their adult lives to the institution, are the ones
who are least rewarded, especially when compared to newly-hired faculty. This
causes a morale problem. President Duderstadt responded that the Regents and


305




June Meeting, 1994


administration are very sensitive to the problems Professor Hirshorn described,
and that he was hopeful that the legislature was beginning to address these
issues.
CESF Report, University of Michigan-Flint
Chancellor Kugler introduced Professor Doug Miller, chair of the UM-Flint
faculty council, to present the report of the Committee on the Economic Status of
the Faculty at the UM-Flint. Professor Miller observed that the upcoming inauguration of Charlie Nelms as the fourth chancellor of the UM-Flint and the opening of the new library on the Flint campus provide an opportunity to
acknowledge the link between the Board of Regents and the UM-Flint faculty as
the cornerstone on which the success of the campus has been built. He reviewed
the history of the Flint campus and described some of the recent initiatives that
have been undertaken there. Professor Miller observed that the UM-Flint has become a home for the nontraditional student.
Regarding the CESF Report, Professor Miller stated that faculty salaries at
all ranks are above the median for peer institutions, but that faculty are concerned about salary differences among schools within the UM-Flint. Finally, he
indicated that Flint faculty are generally in favor of flexible benefits proposals.
Regent Baker expressed the Regents' appreciation to the Flint faculty for
their steadfastness in pursuing the development of the Flint campus. He noted
that this campus had gone well beyond the original expectations of the Board in
its physical plant, the breadth of its educational mission, and its success in bringing a particular dimension of education to Flint.
Regent McFee observed that both the Flint and Dearborn campuses serve
large numbers of nontraditional students and commented that the University's
ability to fulfill the needs of these students is a real service to the state's
population.
Regent Power noted that both regional campuses have the opportunity to
set forth a strategic role and mission which "adds value" to the University of
Michigan and the state's citizens, without necessarily replicating what is provided in Ann Arbor.
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Matters (Audit Report); 1994
Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly and School/College
Governments
Vice President Hartford introduced Ms. Julie Neenan and Mr. Jacob Stern,
president and executive vice president, respectively, of Michigan Student Assembly (MSA). Ms. Neenan stated that MSA is requesting a fee assessment of $2.69
per student per term for MSA and $1.00 per student per term for school and college governments for the 1994-95 year. These requests represent no increase over
the previous year's fee assessments.
Regarding the audit report, Regent Power expressed enthusiasm about the
mostly benign and complimentary management letter and the clean audit.


306




June Meeting, 1994


Executive Vice President Womack and Mr. Carl Smith, director of university
audits, concurred with Regent Power's assessment, and said that MSA should be
congratulated for it. Vice President Hartford expressed pride in the quality of
student leadership of MSA and noted that the $2.69 per student per term fee is
one of the smallest of any student government for any major American
university.
Regent Varner expressed support for the plans to transfer the supervision of
Student Legal Services from MSA to the Law School. Vice President Hartford
stated that she was optimistic that the new Law School dean would be receptive
to the proposal. Regent Baker observed that the whole concept of Student Legal
Services should be discussed more broadly prior to considering its transfer to the
Law School.
Regent Power moved approval of a fee assessment of $2.69 per student per
term for MSA and $1.00 per student per term for school/college governments. Regent McFee seconded the motion.
Regent Baker reported that he had not received the MSA auditor's statement and financial report until that day and questioned why this report, which
was dated April 29, 1994, should have been delayed nearly two months. Mr.
Rodger Wolf, assistant to the vice president for student affairs for finance, responded that the date on an audit report represents the last date of the field
work for the audit. The time between that date and when the report is presented
is spent in writing the report and management letter and in holding conferences
with the client. The other Regents noted that they had received their reports
with their agenda packets the previous week.
Ms. Neenan and Mr. Stern responded to questions from Regent Baker about
specific aspects of the report. The question was then called, and Regent Power's
motion to approve the MSA and school/college government fee request was approved unanimously. Regent Brown was away from the table when the vote was
taken.
1994-95 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Hartford reported that the recommended Health Service fee
increase of 4.89 percent ($4.50 per student term) was below the medical care cost
index, as it had been for a number of years. Following some discussion, Regent
Deitch moved approval for an increase in the University Health Service Fee of
$4.50 per student per term, to bring the total to $96.50 per student per term. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. Regent
Brown was away from the table when the vote was taken.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of April 1994. It was
decided to withhold consideration of the May 1994 minutes until the following
month.


307




June Meeting, 1994


Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on investment, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations, and responded to
questions from Regent Baker about endowments and about the University's relationship with the Industrial Technology Institute.
Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and sumnmaries of a selection of current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich submitted the report of voluntaty support for the month of June 1993, noting that cash gifts were coming in
at a record-setting pace, and that gifts from             individuals were 26 percent ahead of
the rate in the same period last year.
AMOCO Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......................................................5,000
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health and the Colleges of
Engineering  and  Literature, Science, and  the  Arts........................................................................................... 122,000
ARCO Exploration & Production Technology, Plano, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege   of  E n gineering................................................................................................................................................................. 1800
Actuarial Education and Research Fund, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 15,0 00
Aeroquip Foundation, Jackson
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Albert Chevrolet - GEO, Flint
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School........................................................................5,000
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Alexander & Alexander of Michigan, Inc., Detroit
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration....................5,000
Bernice Allen Estate
for clinical research in the University of Michigan Hospitals.........................................................................5,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Funds in the School of Business
Administration and in the College of Engineering, and for the Biophysics Research
Division and other support in the College of Engineering........................................................................... 106,000
Allstate Insurance Company, Hudson, Ohio
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration....................5,000
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute..............................................25,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
College of Pharmacy, and the Biophysics Research Division....................................................................148,081
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
em ployee   m atching   gifts.............................................................................................................................................................10,000
American Fund for Dental Health, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Harris Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry.....................................41,631
American Kennel Club, New York
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School................................................ 12,500
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  geriatrics  research  in  the  M edical School...........................................................................................................25,000
American Paralysis Association, Short Hills, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................... 18,150
Ameritech, Detroit
for the John T. Dempsey Memorial Scholarship Endowment at the University of
M ich igan -D earborn............................................................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Amster Foundation, Tenafly, New Jersey
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical School............... 5...............,000
Herbert S. Amster, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity   M usical  Society....................................................................................................................................... 5,000


308




June Meeting, 1994


Andrews & McMeel Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate    Studies..........................................................................................................................................................5,000
Andrew     Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  the  Robert   H. Lurie  Fund..................................................................................................................................... 100,000
Rudi Ansbacher, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School.......................................................... 5,000
David G. Arscott, Atherton, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........8,167
Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C.
for physical stress research in the College of Engineering.................................................30,000
BP America, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program         in the School of Business Administration.................................................5,000
Juliane K Bailey, New York, New York
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................5,000
Baker & McKenzie, Chicago, Illinois
for  special aid  in  the  Law    School............................................................................................................................................5,000
Nora Lee Barron & Guy Barron Foundation, Birmingham
for Nephrology Professorships in the Medical School.......................................................................................7,000
Rodney S. W. Basler, Lincoln, Nebraska
for the William     B. Taylor Fund in the Medical School.........................................................................................5,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School...................................................................................................................5,000
Marion E. Beebe Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Robert N. and Marion E. Beebe Football Scholarship, Department of Athletics.......75,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Robert N. and Marion E. Beebe Football Scholarship, Department of Athletics.......75,000
Norman C. Bender Estate
for  the   C lem ents  L ibrary..............................................................................................................................................................5,000
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
for art acquisitions and support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...........................................5,000
Big L Corporation, Sheridan
for the Stanley S. Kemp Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology.........................................................5,000
Joan A. Binkow, Ann Arbor
for philosophy and humanities support in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and for the Horace H. Rackham             School of Graduate Studies............................................................5,000
Menefee D. Blackwell, Kansas City, Missouri
for unrestricted support of the Law School...................................................................................................................5,000
Herbert M. Blair III, Spring Lake
for the William     B. Taylor Endowment Fund in the Medical School..........................................................5,000
Blanchard Foundation, Dimondale
for off-campus political internships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................................5,000
Thomas H. Blaske, Ann Arbor
for the Marching Band Uniforms Fund in the School of Music....................................................................5,000
Norman R. Bodine, Birmingham
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................5,000
Boothman, Hebert, Eller & Yockey, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...............................................................5,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................ 14,990
Janet Gatherer Boyles, Grand Rapids
1,125 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock for the Janet
Gatherer Boyles Endowment in the School of Nursing.................................................................................. 39,938
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration.................................................5,000
Conrad A. Bradshaw Trust, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted support of the Law School...................................................................................................................5,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Plymouth
for the Give Something Back Leadership Program in the Law School and for the
A lum  ni  A ssociation....................................................................................................................................................................13,750
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the Brandt Fund for Judaica in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................5,000
Robert W. Browne, North Palm Beach, Florida
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School........................................................................5,000


309




June Meeting, 1994


Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics...................................15,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................................5,000
Cadence Design Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for computer-aided design research in the College of Engineering............................................................6,210
Calvin A. Campbell, Jr., Bedford Park, Illinois
for the Alumni Scholarship Fund in the Law                      School............................................................................................5,000
Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School.....................................................................................................................................8000
Campbell Soup Company, Camden, New Jersey
for community health research in the School of Public Health.................................................................30,000
Alexa Canady-Davis, West Bloomfield
for the MomentUM              Fund in the Medical School.......................................................................................................5,000
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Electrophysicology Lecture/Travel Fund in the Medical School............................................. 24,500
Donald B. Carlsen, Midland
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry.......................................................................5,000
Carello Lighting, Cannock, Staffordshire, England
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................15,000
Constance M. Carmody Estate
for  the   School    of  Public   H  ealth................................................................................................................................................ 9 276
David G. Chardavoyne, Farmington Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................... 5,000
Chemical Bank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
William R. Childs, Denver, Colorado
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering.......................................................................................5,000
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research........................................................... 20,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute
and for student aid in the College of Engineering.................................................................................................53,000
Citibank, New York, New York
for the International Faculty Development Fund, School of Business Administration.............5,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for  the  C  am  paign     for  M ichigan................................................................................................................................................5,000
Connelly Associates, Warren
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
C ollege   of  E ngineering...18                                                                                             500.............................................................................................................................................................18,500
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for  th e  V isitor  C en  ter...................................................................................................................................................................25,000
Lawrence D. Corlett Trust
for the Lawrence D. Corlett Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering........................... 757,405
Asho I. Craine, Ann Arbor
for the Founder's Research Program                   in the Center for the Education of Women........................5,000
Dewey B. Crawford, Chicago, Illinois
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law                       School.......................................................................................5,000
Mary Fair Croushore Trust
for the Mary Fair Croushore Professorship in Humanities, College of Literature,
Science,    and     the   A rts................................................................................................................................................................472,305
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for  the    M edical   C enter..60000.............................................................................................................................................................60,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................................................................................................................... 9,125
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship..........................................................................................................5,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration................................................ 5,000
William K Davenport, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the Law                School...................................................................................................................5,000
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
560 shares of Alltel Corporation common stock for the Office for the Study of
Private Equity Finance in the School of Business Administration, and for the
School of Education and the Michigan Annual Fund........................................................................................ 15,688


310




June Meeting, 1994


Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in  the  M edical School................................................................................................................................15,000
C. Jay Deeds, Grosse Pointe
280 shares of the American Mutual Fund for the Sports Service Building in the
D epartm   ent  of  A thletics................................................................................................................................................ 5,874
Deloitte & Touche, Detroit
for the William     A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration...........................5,000
John L. Denniston, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Jack and Jerry Weidenbach Book Fund in the University Library and for the
Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics....................................................................10,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................................................................. 5,000
Thomas A. Dieterich, Tenafly, New Jersey
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School........................................................ 5,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for human factors and other research in the Transportation Research Institute
and for the Manufacturing Forum             in the School of Business Administration............................ 25,000
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland
for neuropathy research in the School of Public Health, for polymer research in the
College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts.......................................................................... 102,632
John D. Drinko, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law                     School..............................5,000
EDS, Troy
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and for support in
the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering......................................................................11,840
Albert D. Early, Sarasota, Florida
783 shares of Chemical Bank Corporation common stock and cash gift of
$150,000 for the Albert D. and Virginia B. Early Unitrust for the ultimate
benefit   of  the   L aw   School....................................................................................................................................................... 178,775
Kenneth A. Easlick Graduate Society, Farmington Hills
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry.....................................5,500
Eastman Kodak Charitable Trust, Rochester, New York
for the Minority Engineering Program              in the College of Engineering....................................................5,000
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute...................7,500
David Egger, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship of Judaic Studies in the College of Literature,
S cience,  and    th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Bernt Ekvall Trust
for  the   B ernt  E kvall  F un d...........................................................................................................................................................9700
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the Fitness Research Center in the Division of Kinesiology...................................................................5,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program         in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
FMC Corporation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the FMC Corporation Fund in Chemical Engineering and for other research in
the   C ollege  of  E ngineering.......................................................................................................................................................10,000
E. C. Fackler, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Friends of the University Library Fund.........................................................................................................5,000
Andrea J. Farr Estate
for  the  A ndrea  J. Farr   Fund.................................................................................................................................................5,000
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School.............................................................................. 10,000
Fel-Pro, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Russell H. Fifield, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School....................................................................................................5,000
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
Carlton R. Fischer, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
Stephen L. Fisher, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..................................................................5,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School..................................................................................................................5,000
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Power House, the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane.............................................................................5,000


311




June Meeting, 1994


Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Institute
of Public Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social Research..............................................................362,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, for the School of
Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn School, for the Henry Ford
Estate at Fair Lane, for the Give Something Back Leadership Program in the
Law School, and for the University Musical Society...................................................................................185,525
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, for support in
the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and for employee matching gifts......................................... 107,416
Ford Motor Company Plastic Products Engineering, Redford
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................30,000
Lee H. Frame, Jr., Fairfax, Virginia
for the D.C. Club Make a Difference Fund in the Alumni Association....................................................5,000
Stephen E. Frank, Juno Beach, Florida
for  the  School of Business  Adm inistration............................................................................................................... 5,000
Ben Franklin Properties, Inc., North Miami Beach, Florida
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School.......................................... 10,000
Freedom Forum, Arlington, Virginia
for Journalism Support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................7,550
A. James French Society, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School........................................................................... 5,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for  the  Cam paign   for  M ichigan................................................................................................................................................ 000
Vincent L. Fyie, Dearborn
for  vision   research   in  the  M edical School.......................................................................................................................5,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for pediatrics endocrinology research in the Medical School....................................................................... 50,000
General Electric Company Lighting Business Group, Cleveland, Ohio
for  support  in  the  College  of Engineering....................................................................................................................50,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................25,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................ 15,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School, for the College of
Engineering, and the Give Something Back Leadership Program in the Law School.............17,750
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........................................................5,000
Matthew B. Gerson, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration....................5,000
Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Music............................................................................12,000
Paul Goebel Group, Grand Rapids
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School and for the Sports
Service  Building  in  the  Departm ent of Athletics...................................................................................................10,000
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 10,000
Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, D.C.
for  unrestricted  support  of the  Law   School...................................................................................................................5,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School...........................................................................5,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Eugene M. Grant and Company Real Estate Management, New York, New York
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for  research  in  the  Institute  for  Social Research...................................................................................................52,096
Lazar J. Greenfield, Ann Arbor
342 shares of Boston Scientific Corporation common stock for support in the Medical
School and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................................................5,087
John A. Gunn, Palo Alto, California
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics..........................5,000
Harry R. Hagey, Palo Alto, California
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics..........................5,000


312




June Meeting, 1994


Harris Charitable Annuity Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering................................................................................5,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Scholarship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts............................................................................................................................................
Sylvia Henning Trust
for the Albert A. Henning, Sylvia Henning, and Joan E. Henning Scholarship Fund
in   the   C ollege   of  E ngineering....................................................................................................................................................5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................  100,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 120,000
Douglas N. Higgins, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..................................................... 5,000
William B. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Botanical Gardens Development Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts...........................................................................................................................................................5 000
Fred Holtz, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School........................................................................... 5,000
Honeywell Limited, Farmington Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit................................................................. 5,000
William M. Houston, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
100 shares of Aetna Life and Casualty Company common stock for unrestricted
support      of  the   L aw   School...........................................................................................................................................................5,288
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships, fellowships, and research in the Medical School........................................................242,050
IGI, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for research in the College of Pharmacy.......................................................................................................................15,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for integrated optics research in the College of Engineering....................................................................... 18,000
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute...................................................7,500
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering.....................................................................................................................5,000
International and American Association for Dental Research, Washington, D.C.
for  research    in  the  School of   D entistry............................................................................................................................9,500
Jacobson Stores Foundation, Jackson
for  the  U niversity    M usical Society..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry...................................... 10,000
Jobbers Warehouse Service, Inc., Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................................8,500
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School.....................................................................5,000
Johnson & Johnson Products, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Associates Program           in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research    in   the  M edical School.................................................................................................................................... 15,762
John Josselson Estate
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School.....................................5,000
K.M.D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  the  School   of  Social  W  ork....................................................................................................................................................5,000
G. S. Kapoor, M.D., Inc., Merrillville, Indiana
for the Sikh Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................5,000
Joseph P. Keithley, Cleveland, Ohio
1,000 shares of Keithley Instruments, Inc., common stock for unrestricted
support of the School of Business Administration................................................................................................ 10,250
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for employee matching gifts......................................................................................................................................................5,500
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for employee matching gifts..................................................................................................................................................for employee matching gifts.11,754
Mrs. James A. Kennedy, Montecito, California
for  the  U niversity    M usical Society.....................................................................................................................................25,000


313




June Meeting, 1994


John R. Keough, Bloomfield
for the Richard A. Flinn Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................5................................. 5,000
Richard Kerr, Chelsea
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..........................................................500
Kenneth K. Kohrs, Ann Arbor
75 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Campaign for Michigan
in   the  College  of  E ngineering............................................................................................................................................... 5,044
Elizabeth Ford Kontulis, Ann Arbor
for the Tennis Facilities in the Department of Athletics...................................................................... 5,000
Ross W. Kremer, Russell, Pennsylvania
for the Fisher Stadium      in the Department of Athletics.................................................................................... 5,000
Arnold M. Kuethe, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...................... 1..                                10,000
John D. Kutsche, Trenton
for the Kutsche Memorial Chair in Internal Medicine in the Medical School................................25,000
Louis A. Kwiker, Beverly Hills, California
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School......................................................5,000
L. Bates Lea, Glenview, Illinois
1,825 shares of Zebra Technologies common stock for the L. Bates Lea Visiting
Professorship in the Law School................................. 101,972
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 8,741
Leukemia Society of America, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 19,170
Norman J. Leven, La Quinta, California
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship, School of Business Administration............... 5,000
Neil T. Levenson Estate
for  support  in  the  College  of Engineering....................................................................................................................... 5,000
Morton Q. Levin, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Sumner & Laura Foster Library Acquisitions Fund in the College of
L iterature,  Science,  and   the  A rts...........................................................................................................................................5,000
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.......................................................................................................................................8,750
Life Systems, Inc., Southfield
for thoracic surgery support in the Medical School................................................................................................ 5,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..................o....................................5,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
and  in  the  M acrom olecular   Research   Center...............................................................................................................5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research  in  the  School of Education..................................................................................................................... 127,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Inc., Auburn Hills
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School..................................................................... 10,000
MagneTek, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering................................................................................... 10,000
Ella A. Mahnken Trust
for the H. Marvin Pollard Fund in the Medical School and for the Bentley Library.............35,000
R. Carleton and Mary B. Mansfield, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
250 shares of Philip Morris Company common stock for the R. Carleton and
Mary B. Mansfield Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
C ollege   of   E ngineering................................................................................................................................................................ 13,375
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................................. 15,000
Joyce Marcus, Ann Arbor
for the Faculty Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................5,000
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School......................................................................... 12,792
Oscar G. & Ensa S. Mayer Charitable Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................5,000
Mazda (North America), Inc., Flat Rock
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000


314




June Meeting, 1994


James V. McConnell Estate
for the James V. McConnell Memorial Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rt s..........................................................................................................   19,676
F. James McDonald, Vero Beach, Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...............................................................5,000
Lucille McKenzie McGrath Trust
for the C. B. McKenzie, M.D., Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School................................43,483
McGraw Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Associates Program       in the School of Business Administration..................................................5,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
400 shares of First Bank Systems common stock for research in College Teaching
and Learning and for psychology support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....14,100
Brian J. McKeen, Detroit
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................................................................6,000
Meadowbrook, Inc. - Insurance, Southfield
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration....................5,000
G. Edgar Meads, London, Ontario
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics......................................................... 5,000
Louise M. Meffley Estate
for the Physically Challenged Student Assistance Fund in the School of Education.............. 12,167
Mellen Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law School..............................5,000
Henry J. Merry, Ann Arbor
for the Ophthalmic Research Endowment in the Medical School...............................................................5,000
Helen L. Metzner, Ann Arbor
for  the  Center  for  the  Education   of W om  en.................................................................................................................5,000
Michigan Eye Bank & Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School..................................................................................................5,000
Michigan Trenching Service, Inc., Ypsilanti
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.............................................................................. 5,000
Mid-American Sales, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial in the Medical School.........................................................................5,000
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...............................................................5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors and automotive transportation research, Transportation
Research Institute and for scholarships and fellowships, College of Engineering...................... 32,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.................................................................................................. 100,000
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for  em ployee  m  atching  gifts.....................................................................................................................................................8,575
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School................................................ 12,500
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for  em ployee  m  atching  gifts.......20                                                                   750..........................................................................................................................................20,750
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity  M usical  Society........................................................................................................................................5,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the MBA Program        in the School of Business Administration................................................................5,000
Motorola, Inc., Semiconductor Products, Phoenix, Arizona
for microelectronics research in the College of Engineering....................................................................... 10,000
Eva L. Mueller, Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art, Population Studies Center, University Musical Society,
and the Founder's Research Program            in the Center for the Education of Women....................5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for  research  in  the  M edical School.....................................................................................................................................59,873
K. W. Muth Advanced Technologies, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................ 15,000
Kathryn E. Myers, Ypsilanti
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the School of Dentistry, and
th e  C ollege  of  P harm acy............................................................................................................................................................... 5,150
NBD Bank, Detroit
for  em ployee  m  atching  gifts.................................................................................................................................................. 13,635
National Childhood Cancer Foundation, Arcadia, California
for pediatric hematology/oncology support in the Medical School........................................................... 10,000


315




June Meeting, 1994


National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................................................. 5,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research in the Medical School........................................................................................................................... 6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School..............................................................10,000
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center......................................................................................................... 5,000
Peter J. Newell, Burr Ridge, New Jersey
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics......................... 5,000
William A. Newman, Ann Arbor
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics......................................5,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Plymouth
for the Nissan Motors Research Fund in the College of Engineering..............................................40,000
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry................................................................ 50,000
Robert Noehren, San Diego, California
for the Organ Enrichment Fund in the School of Music....................................................................................5,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
for unrestricted support in the Law School.............................................................................................................5,000
O'Connor, DeGrazia & Tamm, P.C., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...................................................5,000
Charles K. Olcott, Lake Wales, Florida
2,650 shares of Canberra Industries common stock for the Fleming A. Barbour
Glaucoma Research and Evaluation Unit in the Medical School.............................................................. 69,801
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals, St. Louis, Missouri
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs in the Medical School............................................... 12,500
Owens-Coring Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Associates Program         in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for  em ployee     m atching   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,300
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................22,500
Mary Palmer, Ann Arbor
698 shares of First Union Corporation common stock for the University
M  u sical   S ociety...................................................................................................................................................................................29,49 1
Pearlman & Pearlman Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School of
B usiness   A dm  inistration..............................................................................................................................................................5,000
Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................30,000
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills.
for  fellow ships  in  the  College  of Engineering............................................................................................................... 8,714
Jules M. & Dora Ann Perlberg Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law           School................................................................................................................10,000
Gustavus and Louise Pfeiffer Research Foundation, Redlands, California
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................30,000
Philips International, B.V., The Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute...................................................7,500
Irwin Jack and Lena Pincus Foundation, Southfield
for  support   in   the  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical School.......................................................................................................................................5,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William     Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.....................5,000
William F. Poorman Trust
for the William F. Poorman Fund in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................................................................................................................................................84297
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Laboratory Project Fund and other support in the
C ollege    of  E ngineering............................................................................................................................................................30,0 00
Ahmad Rahbar, Wheeling, West Virginia
for unrestricted support of the Medical School..........................................................................................................5,000
Bernard & Audre Rapoport Foundation, Waco, Texas
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................5,000


316




June Meeting, 1994


Vera Rasich, Ann Arbor
for the Vera Rasich Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Medical School...................................................................................................................................... 100,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
for the Rearick Graduate Student Support Fund in the School of Education.............................. 10,000
Gareth L. Reed, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................5,000
Rohm and Haas Company, Spring House, Pennsylvania
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................5,000
Richard D. Rohr, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law              School..................................................................................................................5,000
SPX Corporation, Muskegon
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Morley Safer, Chester, Connecticut
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
of  G raduate      Studies.................................................................................................................................................................5 00
Rudy A. Salvette Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for endowment in the School of Business Administration................................................................................5,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School...............................................................................................................5,000
Saul S. Saulson, Franklin
for the William       Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.....................5,000
Allen Saunders, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Albert G. & Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for  research      in   the  M edical School.................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Hilma R. Schwer, Sandusky, Ohio
for  the    P resident's  F und...............................................................................................................................................................5,000
Will and Barbara D. Scott Fund of the Community Foundation, Birmingham
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and the College
of  Literature, Science, and         the  A  rts.....................................................................................................................................5,000
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.....................................................................................................................................40,000
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
for unrestricted support in the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Myron M. Sheinfeld, Houston, Texas
for unrestricted support of the Law              School...................................................................................................................5,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for Tennis Facilities in the Department of Athletics.......................................................................................110,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School.............. 10,891
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................45,000
Roger B. Smith Fund of the Community Foundation of Southeast Michigan, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Spence Brothers, Saginaw
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
J. Clyde Spencer, East Lansing
for the Isadore Lampe Chair in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School........................................5,000
James A. Sprunk Estate
for  the  Jam   es  A. Sprunk      Fund..............................................................................................................................................10,000
Standard Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................5,000
Robert Edgar Steinburg Trust
for the Robert Edgar Steinburg Scholarship Fund................................................................................................ 5,000
Peter 0. Steiner, Ann Arbor
for the Peter 0. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and       the  A rts..........................000........................................................................................................................................5,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................................................................................25,000
Robert G. Stiber, Cincinnati, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering...................................................................................... 5,000
Mary Dolores Stutz Estate
for the Mary Dolores Stutz Fund.000.........................................................................................................................................5,000
Sullivan, Ward, Bone, Tyler & Asher, P.C., Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..............................................................................5,000


317




June Meeting, 1994


Sun Microsystems, Inc., Mountain View, California
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
Administration......................................................................................................................................................................15,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Fund in the Medical School.....................................................................................................8,581
Louise Cooley Sutherland, Rochester Hills
for the Phillis Ocker Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..............................................................5,000
TMP Associates, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund..............................................................5,000
Tappi Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Engineering.................................................................................................................. 40,000
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for support in the College of Engineering....................................................................................................................25,804
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for ultrafast optical science research in the College of Engineering...................................................... 15,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.............................................................5,000
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School................................................8,000
Trico Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William       Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.....................5,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Museum         of Art Friends' Benefit.....................................................................................................................5,000
Thomas M. Trocchio, Ann Arbor
for the David Gach Scholarship in the School of Art.............................................................................................5,145
Stefan Tucker, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law              School...................................................................................................................5,000
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support in the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program            in the School of Business Administration...............................................5,000
Union Oil Company of California, Brea, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering.....18500........................................................................................................................................................... 18,500
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Manufacturing Forum               in the School of Business Administration............................................5,000
United Airlines Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program            in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
United Cerebral Palsy, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.....................................................................................................................................12,500
United Technologies Automotive, Dearborn
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice and for scholarships at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for course support in the College of
E n gineerin   g..................................................................................................................................................................................32,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women.................................................................................................................7,500
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Birmingham, Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham          Alumnae Club Scholarship Fund.........................................................................................5,000
University of Michigan Club of Flint, Flint
for the Library Development Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint...............................................5,000
University of Michigan Club of New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Club of New                  York Scholarship Fund...................................................... 5,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................10,000
Lawrence H. & Frances E. Van Vlack Trust, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................................................................................... 10,000
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...................................................................5,000
Frank C. Vibrans, Jr., Bainbridge Island, Washington
for the Loyal Crew Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Fund in the
C ollege   of  E ngineering..................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Eleanor M. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for unrestricted support of the School of Education............................................................................................5,000


318




June Meeting, 1994


Harvey A. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Harvey A. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering................................................ 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................................................................................................. 14,603
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education and the
College  of Literature, Science, and  the  Arts........................................................................................................22,617
Chris Webber Foundation, Southfield
for the Chris Webber Foundation Scholarship....................................................................................................5,000
Oliverio Welsh, Garza Garcia, Nuevo Leon, Mexico
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School.......................................................................5,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...............................5,000
Westmedia Charitable Foundation, Longview, Washington
for the Wallace House Maintenance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate   Studies............................................................................................................................5,000
Wetsman Foundation, Detroit
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.....................5,000
Joseph D. Williams, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
for the Joseph D. Williams Dean's Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............................................. 10,000
Donald M. Wilkinson, Jr., Syosset, New York
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund, College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts............................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 00
Kurt J. Wolff, New York, New York
for  unrestricted  support  of the  Law   School...................................................................................................................5,000
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for  the  Cancer  Center  Fund...................................................................................................................................................... 5000
World Resources, Ltd., St. Louis, Missouri
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.......................................................................5,000
Gary F. Wyner, West Bloomfield
for  unrestricted  support  of the  Law   School...................................................................................................................5,000
Mary Lou Yost, Midland
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................5,000
Zenkel Foundation, New York, New York
for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in the School of Business
Administration, for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship and other support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Sports Service Building
in   the  D epartm ent  of  A thletics.............................................................................................................................................55,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Briggs Industries, Inc., New Baltimore
technical and related support for the Solar Car Project
Coherent, Santa Clara, California
an Innova 420 pump laser system for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Sciences,
John Fluke Manufacturing Company, Inc., Everett, Washington
two Hydra Data Logger and associated software for the College of Engineering
Huron River Graphics, Inc., Ann Arbor
four PCB design packages, four schematic entry and interface designs, and other support for
the Solar Car Project
Michelin Automotive Industry Division, Troy
specialized tires and tubes for the Solar Car Project
Donald J. Portman, Ann Arbor
206 volumes of professional meteorology journals for the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic,
and Space Sciences
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Accu-Tech Industries, Inc., Shelby Township             Sabine G. MacCormick, Ann Arbor
John H. Humphrey, Ann Arbor                             Lisa McCormick, Ypsilanti
Allen S. Lichter, Ann Arbor                             Walters Gardens, Inc., Zeeland


319




June Meeting, 1994


Personnel Actions. President Duderstadt reported that Richard Kennedy
would be stepping down as vice president for government relations and secretary
of the university as of July 1, 1994, and on that date Harold Johnson would assume the role of interim secretary of the university while a search is conducted
for Mr. Kennedy's successor. He also noted the appointment of Professor
Thomas Kinnear as interim vice president for development as of September 1,
1994, at which time Mr. Cosovich would become deputy to the president.
Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994
Mark Crimmins, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Philosophy
Robert S. Fuller, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry
Kenneth Lange, Ph.D., Professor of Biostatistics
Annette W. LeCuyer, Graduate Diploma, Associate Professor of Architecture
William S. Lovejoy, Ph.D., Professor of Operations Management
Ruth G. Millikan, Ph.D., Professor of Philosophy
Richard M. Tolman, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994
Neil L. Barg, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Rida T. Farouki, Ph.D., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Jerzy Kanicki, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Michael D. Thouless, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Candyce S. Berger, Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, and Assistant Dean of
Hospital Social Work Services, appointment extended as Assistant Dean of Hospital Social
Work Services, three-year term, September 1, 1994
Arthur W. Burks, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, reappointed to active status, one-year term, June 1, 1994
David G. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed
to active status, one-year term, September 1, 1994
Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of
Planetary Science and Professor Emeritus of Physics, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, June 1, 1994
Robert N. Grosse, Professor Emeritus of Population Planning and International Health,
Professor Emeritus of Health Planning, and Professor Emeritus of Urban, Technological,
and Environmental Planning, reappointed to active status, spring half term, May 1, 1994
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, one-year term


320




June Meeting, 1994


Swatantra K. Kachhal, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed as Chair, Department of Industrial and Manufacturing
Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, three-year term
Samuel J. Meisels, from Professor of Education, with tenure, Interim Dean and Associate Dean,
School of Education, to Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, four-year term
James V. Neel, Lee R. Dice Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and
Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, one-year term
Patricia A. O'Connor, Associate Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
reappointed to active status, one-year term, September 1, 1994
Dale L. Oxender, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
George R. Thompson, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Michael M. Bernitsas, Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed Chair, Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, three-year
term
William J. Hennessey, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Director of
Museum of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of
Architecture, without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, also appointed
Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, School of Art, three-year term
Steven L. Kunkel, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, also appointed Acting Associate Vice
President for Research, six-month term
Joseph P. Marino, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, also
appointed Associate Dean for Research, Computing, and Facilities, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, three-year term, August 1, 1994
Albert F. Yee, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department
of Materials Science and Engineering, five-year term
Robert A. Zucker, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1994
George D. Zuidema, from Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Vice Provost for Medical Affairs,
to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Vice Provost Emeritus for Medical Affairs
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Lazar J. Greenfield, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Frederick A Coller Professor of Surgery,
and Chair, Department of Surgery, reappointed as Frederick A. Coller Professor of
Surgery, five-year term
Allen Moy, Associate Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
J. Graham Smith, Professor of History of Art, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Youjae Yi, Associate Professor of Marketing, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995


321




June Meeting, 1994


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Richard Crawford, Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), also appointed Glenn
McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music, five-year term, September 1, 1994
Paul F. Hollenberg, Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Pharmacology, also appointed Maurice H. Seevers Collegiate Professor of Pharmacology,
five-year term
Harold R. Johnson, from Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, Professor
of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of Public Health, and
Special Counsel to the President, to Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social
Work, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of
Public Health, and Interim Secretary of the University, six-month term
Thomas C. Kinnear, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, and D. Maynard Phelps Professor of
Business Administration, also appointed Interim Vice President for Development, two-year
term, September 1, 1994
Richard A. Lanham, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, September 4-30, 1994
Masako Notoji, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies and Anthropology,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Adrian D. Rifkin, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, March 26-April 18, 1995
John A Whittier-Ferguson, from Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature to the
William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English, September 1, 1994
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Cindy A Schipani, two-year term ending August 31, 1996, vice Gautam Kaul, term expired
Brian Talbot, two-year term ending August 31, 1996, vice Victor L. Bernard, term expired
Karl E. Weick, two-year term ending August 31, 1996, vice Judith S. Olson, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Pamela A Moss, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Karen K Wixson, term expired
Annemarie S. Palincsar, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Joseph N. Payne, term
expired
College of Engineering Executive Committee
William J. Anderson, one-year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Albert B. Schultz, sabbatical leave
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Patricia Y. Gurin, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vacant position
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Stephen L. Darwall, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Anita K. Barry, term expired
Migdalia Garcia, alumni representative, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Mary A
Campbell, term expired
Orin G. Gelderloos, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Lawrence B. Radine, term
expired
Leigh M. Ramos student representative, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Stephen M.
Stark, graduated
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Eric J. Essene, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Peter G. Hinman, term expired
Luis 0. Gomez, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Stuart Y. McDougal, term expired
Charlotte M. Mistretta, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Kenneth E. Warner, term
expired
Annemarie S. Palincsar, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Karen K. Wixson, term
expired
Steven J. Rosenstone, one-year term ending August 31, 1995, vice Janet A. Weiss, sabbatical
leave


322




June Meeting, 1994


Center for Human Growth and Development Executive Committee
Vonnie C. McLoyd, one-year term ending June 30, 1995, additional ad hoc member
Arnold J. Sameroff, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice David S. Carlson, resigned
Barbara B. Smuts, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Samuel J. Meisels, term expired
Henry M. Wellman, reappointed, two-year term ending June 30, 1996
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Katarina T. Borer, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Merle L. Foss, term expired
Christine M. Brooks, two-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Bernard P. Maloy, term expired
M. Melissa Gross, one-year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Victor L. Katch, resigned
Medical School Executive Committee
Jack E. Dixon, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Thomas D. Gelehrter, term expired
Janet R. Gilsdorf, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice Laurence A. Boxer, term expired
Michigan Memorial-Phoenix Project Executive Committee
David R. Engelke, reappointed, four-year term ending June 30, 1998
Billy J. Evans, reappointed, four-year term ending June 30, 1998
Sarah W. Newman, one-year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Rosemary A Sarri, resigned
Richard L. Wahl, four-year term ending June 30, 1998, vice John C. Floyd, Jr., term expired
Middle English Dictionary Council
Frances K. McSparran, reappointed, two-year term ending June 30, 1996
Thomas E. Toon, reappointed, two-year term ending June 30, 1996
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Dale E. Briggs, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Joyce J. Lindeman, term expired
Charles E. Olson, Jr., three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Gerald F. Linderman, term
expired
School of Music Executive Committee
Jessica K. Fogel, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Peter D. Sparling, term expired
Donald J. Sinta, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Joanne A. Smith, term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Nancy E. Reame, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Linda L. Daniel, term expired
Carolyn M. Sampselle, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Ruth M. Barnard, term
expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Patricia P. Moll, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice James E. Martin, term expired
Barry G. Rabe, three-year term ending August 31, 1997, vice David Schottenfeld, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
John R. Chamberlin, reappointed, three-year term ending June 30, 1997
Richard I. Ford, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Raymond C. Kelly, term expired
Patricia Y. Gurin, reappointed, three-year term ending June 30, 1997
Karl E. Weick, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice B. Joseph White, term expired
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute Executive Committee
Toby Citrin, reappointed, three-year term ending June 30, 1997
Robert W. Marans, reappointed, three-year term ending June 30, 1997
Lawrence W. Schneider, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Thomas D. Gillespie, term
expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Margaret Campbell, reappointed, four-year term ending June 30, 1998
David Katz, reappointed, four-year term ending June 30, 1998
Linda P. Kughn, reappointed, four-year term ending June 30, 1998
Roger E. Winkelman, reappointed, four-year term ending June 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Carolyn M. Gillespie, three-year term ending June 30, 1997, vice Judith J. Kollman, term expired


323




June Meeting, 1994


Frederic J. Svoboda, three-year term ending June 30,1997, vice Leslie P. Moch, term expired
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Lynn R. Evans, retroactive reappointment, March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1998
Jack Minore, retroactive reappointment, March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1998
Karen Sherrin, retroactive reappointment, March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1998
Joseph G. Shomsky, retroactive reappointment, March 1, 1994 through June 30, 1998
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Law School
Michael A. Heller, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, June 1, 1994
Medical School
M. Elizabeth Wiedmer-Mikhail, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, May 16, 1994
John G. Younger, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Theodosia S. Robertson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, September 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Medical School
Neera Ghaziuddin, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, May 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Ronald A. Nussbaum, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, Curator and Director, Edwin S. George
Reserve, Museum of Zoology, duty off campus, May 3-June 27, 1994
School of Public Health
Maryfran R. Sowers, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Melita C. Schaum, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Thomas E. Snabb, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Cloyzelle K. Jones, Professor of Education, with tenure, disability leave, January 6, 1995 -August 31, 2001
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Adnan K. Shaout, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994- April 30,1995


324




June Meeting, 1994


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Consuela M. Provost, Professor of English and Theatre, with tenure, sick leave extended,
January 22-May 31, 1994)
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Albert Feuerwerker, A. M. and H. P. Bentley Professor of History, with tenure, sick leave
extended, February 3-May 31, 1994 (previously reported as duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1994)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Santosh G. Abraham, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Law School
Larry B. Kramer, Professor of Law, with tenure
Debra A. Livingston, Assistant Professor of Law
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard A. Campbell, Assistant Professor of Communication, June 30, 1994
Jill Crystal, Assistant Professor of Political Science
Edward L. Gibson, Assistant Professor of Political Science
Medical School
Alex M. Aisen, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, May 6, 1994
Thomas R. Henry, Assistant Professor of Neurology, April 30, 1994
Robert C. Kelsch, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Robert D. Russell, Jr., Assistant Professor of History, June 30, 1994
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted retirement memoirs
for six faculty members.
John R. Bassett, professor of forestry, will retire from active faculty status
on June 30, 1994, following a distinguished career as an administrator, teacher,
and researcher.
Professor Bassett earned his AB. degree in 1949, his B.S. degree in 1965, his
M.F. degree in 1952, and his Ph.D. degree in 1961, all from the University of
Michigan. Following service in the U.S. Navy from 1952-56, he was employed by
the U.S. Forest Service from 1956-67. He joined the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor of forestry in 1967; he was promoted to associate professor in
1968 and professor of forestry in 1976.
Within the School of Natural Resources and Environment, Professor Bassett served as director of Camp Filibert Roth in the Upper Peninsula from
1967-76 and chaired the Fisheries, Forestry, and Wildlife Program from 1975-80.
He was director of undergraduate programs from 1980-83 and associate dean for
academic affairs from 1983-92.


325




June Meeting, 1994


A respected member of his profession, Professor Bassett has been a consultant to state and federal governments, private law firms, and landowners on matters concerning diverse management goals of forest lands and has held
leadership positions in the Michigan Chapter of the Society of American Foresters, the Michigan Forestry Association, the Michigan Tree Farm Committee, and
the Society of American Forestry Silviculture Working Group. These experiences
have enhanced his teaching, allowing him to show students both the practical
and theoretical sides of resource management issues.
Professor Bassett's teaching has ranged from general interest courses for
non-majors to highly specialized courses. Well over 100 students per semester
have enrolled in his class, "Forests for People." At the same time, he has taught
courses in biological management, forest biology, and his particular area of interest, silviculture or vegetation management. Professor Bassett's teaching is noteworthy for its combination of science and theory of management with practical
application in the field. Students in his classes could count on theory being translated into application by visiting research sites and management units.
Professor Bassett is perhaps best known for his research on computerized
urban tree inventories. His 1978 paper on this topic was the benchmark upon
which his sponsored research and practice developed. Recently, Professor Bassett
and his students have been pursing research of interest to the state of Michigan,
namely the reproduction of oaks on dry sites in the northern part of the lower
peninsula.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming John R. Bassett professor emeritus of forestry.
Douglas G. Dickson, professor of mathematics, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1994, after a productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Montclair, New Jersey, Professor Dickson received his B.A
degree from Wesleyan University in 1947 and his AM. degree from Harvard
University in 1949. He taught at Dartmouth College, Hunter College, Columbia
University, and Barnard College from 1948-57 and completed his Ph.D. degree at
Columbia University in 1958. He joined the University of Michigan as assistant
professor of mathematics in 1958 and was promoted to associate professor in
1964 and professor in 1974. He visited the University of Paris on several
sabbaticals.
Professor Dickson's area of research was in complex analysis, with an emphasis on exponential sums. From 1973-75, Professor Dickson served as associate
chair for undergraduate education in the Department of Mathematics. He also
served on many departmental committees and was always a very conscientious
teacher, who was highly respected by his students. He directed four doctoral theses. From 1988-94, Professor Dickson served as editor for the Michigan Mathematical Journal, a period where the journal grew both in size and in the quality
of its publications.
The Regents now salute this mathematician for his dedicated teaching and
service by naming Douglas G. Dickson professor emeritus of mathematics.


326




June Meeting, 1994


Robert C. Kelsch, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in the Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on August 31,
1994.
Dr. Kelsch received his B.A degree from St. John University in Minnesota
in 1950 and his M.D. degree from St. Louis University in 1954. He served in the
U.S. Army from 1954-57 and then joined the University of Michigan medical staff
as an assistant resident in pediatrics from 1957-59. From 1959-62, he was an instructor in the Department of Pediatrics and a post-doctoral research trainee in
biochemistry, and from 1962-65 he served as assistant director of pediatrics at
Wayne County General Hospital. Dr. Kelsch was appointed assistant professor of
pediatrics in 1966 and was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor
in 1973.
Early in his career, Dr. Kelsch developed a keen interest in the field of renal
diseases of childhood, and he is considered to be a pioneer in the development of
the subspecialty of pediatric nephrology. Under his leadership, the Department of
Pediatrics developed one of the most outstanding programs for the care of children afflicted with renal disease. When pediatric nephrology was approved as a
subspecialty by the American Board of Medical Specialties in the early 1970s, Dr.
Kelsch was among the first cohort of successful examinees for certification in this
subspecialty when the first qualifying exam was given in 1974. Dr. Kelsch has
been elected to membership in numerous professional associations and has received the most prestigious teaching awards in the Medical Center, including the
Kaiser Permanente Award for Excellence in Teaching in the Clinical Sciences
(1985) and the Department of Pediatrics House Staff Faculty Teaching Award
(1990).
Dr. Kelsch's clinical and administrative service has also been exceptional.
He has served as director of Pediatric Laboratories, director of the Pediatric General Services, acting chair of the Department of Pediatrics (1980-81), director of
Pediatric Ambulatory Care Services, and director of the Pediatric Nephrology
Service. He also served for more than a decade as the sequence coordinator for
the "Introduction to Clinical Sciences" course. He has participated extensively in
the Inteflex program, both as a member of the Colloquium on Ethics and Human
Values in Science and the Inteflex Policy Committee. Throughout his career, Dr.
Kelsch has also taught general pediatrics and cared for children with general
medical as well as renal disorders. Well-known for his passionate, effective, and
highly humane approach to patients and their families, Dr. Kelsch has established a legacy of superb teaching and patient care.
In recognition of his dedicated service and distinguished and productive career, the Regents now name Robert C. Kelsch professor emeritus of pediatrics
and communicable diseases.
Donald B. Kersten, professor of art, will retire from active faculty status
on June 30, 1994, after a productive career as an artist, designer, and teacher.
Professor Kersten received his B.F.A. degree in 1956 and his M.A degree in
1961, both from Wayne State University. From 1961-64, he worked as an exhibit
designer and an interior and graphic designer for such firms as Ford & Earl
Associates, Sundberg-Ferar Inc., and General Motors. Professor Kersten joined
the faculty of the former College of Architecture and Design at the University of


327




June Meeting, 1994


Michigan as an instructor in 1964 to teach basic design, watercolor, and visualization. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1966, associate professor in
1971, and professor in 1976. Since 1974, he has taught drawing, basic design,
painting, visualization, graphic design, and aqueous media in the School of Art.
He was highly successful in fluencing students, due to his dedication to teaching and his rapport with students.
The recipient of two Rackham Research Grants (1973-75 and 1980-83), Professor Kersten's research was directed at advertising in the environment. The
first grant, "Signs at the Marketplace," culminated in an exhibit dealing primarily with on-premise advertising. The second grant, "Ad Sites as Planned Elements in the Environment," focused on urban and highway off-premise
advertising and generated a proposal for more effective and visually pleasing outdoor advertising.
Professor Kersten's professional activities include architectural delineation,
illustration, product design, and identity programs for Detroit and Ann Arbor
firms; chancel design and furnishings for Ann Arbor churches; and collaboration
on signage programs for Detroit hospital centers. Most recently, he was curator
for "One Man's Vision - The Robert L. Sutton Commemorative Exhibit" in the
Slusser Gallery of the University of Michigan School of Art. Professor Kersten is
also an accomplished and award-winning watercolor artist who has exhibited locally and nationally.
The Regents now acknowledge the contributions of this distinguished and
dedicated artist, designer, and teacher by naming Donald B. Kersten professor
emeritus of art.
Clifford S. Leonard, Jr., associate professor of romance linguistics, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Leonard received his AB. degree from Yale University in 1950, his
M.A degree in French from Middlebury College in 1953, and his Ph.D. degree in
romance linguistics from Cornell University in 1960. He served on the faculty of
Cornell University from 1960-67 and the University of Wisconsin from 1967-69,
before coming to the University of Michigan in 1969 as a visiting associate professor in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. He was appointed
associate professor in 1970 and was a teacher and scholar of comparative romance linguistics throughout his 24 years of active service.
Professor Leonard served on many departmental committees and twice
served as acting chair of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures.
His publications include Umlaut in Romance (1978), as well as several articles on
comparative romance linguistics published in leading North American and European journals.
Professor Leonard will be remembered by his former graduate students for
the breadth of his knowledge and for the enthusiasm with which he introduced
them to the method and practice of comparative reconstruction. He gave many
University of Michigan undergraduates their first exposure to the field of romance linguistics and to the study of the history of the French language.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and scholar for his devoted
service to the University by naming Clifford S. Leonard, Jr., associate professor
emeritus of romance linguistics.


328




June Meeting, 1994


Jack E. McLaughlin, professor of     mathematics, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1994, after a productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Born in St. Maries, Idaho, Professor McLaughlin received his B.S. degree
from the University of Idaho in 1944. He served in the UoS. Navy from 1944-46,
and then enrolled in the California Institute of Technology, where he received his
Ph.D. degree in 1950. He joined the University of Michigan as an instructor in
mathematics in 1950 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1954, associate
professor in 1958, and professor in 1963.
Professor McLaughlin's research ranged widely over the various subfields of
algebra: lattice theory, finite groups, and commutative algebra. He is credited
with the discovery of one of the sporadic finite simple groups, that of order
898,128,000, which now bears his name.
In 1986, Professor McLaughlin was awarded the Amoco Foundation Good
Teaching Award. He was an excellent and demanding teacher, especially of honors students who sought his courses to measure their ability. He directed 19 doctoral theses, and many of his students have become leaders in their fields.
The Regents now salute this mathematician for his dedicated teaching and
service by naming Jack E. McLaughlin professor emeritus of mathematics.
Roy J. Nelson, professor of French, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1994.
Professor Nelson received his AB. degree from the University of Pittsburgh
in 1951, his M.A degree from Middlebury College in 1952, and his Ph.D. degree
in French from the University of Illinois in 1958.
A teacher and scholar of modern French literature in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures throughout his 37 years at the University of
Michigan, Professor Nelson joined the faculty in 1957 as an instructor in French.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1965, and
professor in 1972.
Professor Nelson served on virtually every departmental committee and on
many college and University bodies, including the Admissions Conmittee, the
Senate Assembly, and the Divisional Board for the Humanities, which he chaired
for three years. Recognized by his colleagues for his fairness, efficiency, and devotion to democratic principles in all matters of faculty governance, he served as
acting chair of Romance Languages and Literatures, first in 1977 and most recently in 1992-93. He chaired or co-chaired ten doctoral dissertation committees
and was a member of many others.
His publications include Peguy, poete du sacre (1960) and Casuality and
Narrative in French Fiction from Zola to Robbe-Grillet (1989), as well as three
textbooks and a number of articles on French literature and film.
Generations of students remember Professor Nelson as an exceptionally
dedicated and outstanding undergraduate teacher. He introduced the study of
French film into Michigan's curriculum and directed the Honors Program in
French for 15 years prior to his retirement. His devotion to students and success
in teaching were recognized by his having received the Ruth Sinclair Award for
Honors Counseling and, in 1992, the Amoco Foundation Good Teaching Award.


329




June Meeting, 1994


The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar and recognize his many years of devoted service to the University by naming Roy J. Nelson
professor emeritus of French.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
approved the consent agenda as detailed above. Regent Baker abstained from
voting.
There followed a break from 10:30-10:40 a.mo
M-Quality. Following the break, Regent Baker expressed the Regents'
gratitude for the efforts of staff members who have participated in M-Quality
training. Executive Vice President Womack observed that a wide variety of people from across the University deserve credit for the progress of the M-Quality
initiative.
Associate Vice President for Finance. Executive Vice President
Womack announced that Mr. Chandler Matthews, associate vice president for
finance, will retire in March of 1995. He observed that in his 24 years at the
University, Mr. Matthews had served as a trusted confidant for him and for his
predecessors, William Pierpont and James Brinkerhoff. He expressed regret
about Mr. Matthews decision to retire, but pleasure that this decision was what
he wants to do, noting that "he is a true gentleman and a great asset to the University of Michigan."
Authorization for Expenditures in 1994-95
Executive Vice President Womack noted that this request allows the University to operate until such time as the 1994-95 budget can be prepared and presented for Regental approval. He reported that in contrast to recent practice,
both revenue budgets and detailed expenditure budgets would be presented in
July.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved temporary actions for expenditures in 1994-95, under the
following guidelines: 1) Payments for non-salary expenditures in 1994-95 will be
made at a rate not to exceed the monthly budget levels for 1993-94; 2) Salary expenditures in 1994-95 will be made on the basis of salary budgets in effect for
1993-94.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07.2.b (Approval and Execution
of University Documents)
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07.2.b so as to increase from $250,000 to $750,000 the amount of a grant or contract for which the
executive vice president and chief financial officer can delegate in writing to


330




June Meeting, 1994


designated representatives the authority to execute contracts and/or applications
for grants or contracts.
The following is the text of the revised bylaw:
Sec. 3.07.2.b Approval and Execution of University Documents
b. All contracts for sponsored research and supplements thereto, including agreements for fellowships, scholarships, and grants-in-aid, and all contracts covering payment for tuition and supplies may be executed by the executive vice president and chief
financial officer; and the executive vice president and chief financial officer's signature
shall be certified by the secretary where such certification is requested, provided, however, the executive vice president and chieffinancial officer is authorized to delegate in
writing to designated representatives authority to execute contracts and/or applications
for grants or contracts where the amount involved is less than $750,000 and/or training grants or fellowship programs which do not exceed a rate of $250,000 per year and
where the commitments anticipated fall within the normal activities of the University.
Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and Marguerite
Wolfson Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 1994-95
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the uses of the income of the Wolfson Endowment Funds
for fiscal year 1994-95, as recommended by the Law School faculty, and as described in the Regents Communication.
Venture Capital Investments (TSG Capital Fund II, L.P.)
Regent Power moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, a commitment of up to $10 million of the University Endowment Fund to TSG Capital Fund II, L.P., pending a favorable review of the
partnership documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's
office.
State Building Authority Financing Projects
This is a request for approval of resolutions approving construction agreements, completion assurance agreements, leases and easement agreements, if
necessary, for the Integrated Technology Instruction Center, the Engineering
Center Building, the James B. Angell Hall Renovation, and the Clarence Cook
Little Science Building Renovation, and authorization for the appropriate officers
to execute and deliver the required documents.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the resolution, agreements, and authorization, as described above, for the Engineering Center Building. The text of this resolution
can be found in Appendix A; page 337.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the resolution, agreements, and authorization, as described above, for the Integrated Technology Instruction Center. The text of this
resolution can be found in Appendix B, page 341.


331




June Meeting, 1994


On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the resolution, agreements, and authorization, as described above, for the James B. Angell Hall Renovation. The text of this resolution can be found in Appendix C, page 345.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the resolution, agreements, and authorization, as described above, for the Clarence Cook Little Science Building Renovation. The text
of this resolution can be found in Appendix D, page 349.
Grosse ile Real Estate
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of vacant lots in Grosse Ile Township, as described in the Regents Communication.
Portage Real Estate
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of property in Portage, Michigan, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) School of Business
Administration renovations; 2) E. H. Kraus Natural Science Building renovations for the Department of Biology; 3) Campus Safety Services Building renovations for the Department of Occupational Safety and Environmental Health and
the Department of Public Safety; and 4) UMH Cytogenetics and Histocompatibility Laboratories Relocation project. For the latter project, the Regents also approved submission of a Certificate of Need application to the Michigan
Department of Public Health.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Neighborhood Partnership, Inc. (MNP)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's entering into an agreement with Michigan Neighborhood Partnership, Inc., to enter into a subcontract to assist MNP
with carrying out a grant from the Michigan State Housing Development
Authority. Because Larry C. Coppard, Ph.D., is both a University employee and a
member of the board of directors of MNP, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The amount of the subcontract to the University is $50,000. The period of performance is 13 months. Dr. Coppard plays no role with regard to the University's performance of this agreement and receives no remuneration as a result
of it.
2.  While two employees of the School of Social Work who will be involved in the
project normally report to Dr. Coppard, they will report to Rochelle Lento of
the Law School in the performance of this agreement.


332




June Meeting, 1994


Resolution in Honor of George D. Zuidema
Regent McFee read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their deep
appreciation and warm regards to George D. Zuidema, M.D., as he
begins his retirement furlough on July 1, 1994.
For more than ten years, Dr. Zuidema has served as vice provost
for medical affairs and professor of surgery and has been the
guiding hand in overseeing the transformation of the University
Medical Center into one of the nation's foremost concentrations of
people devoted to human health training, research, and clinical care.
During his tenure, the University has seen the opening of the new
University Hospital, the A Alfred Taubman Health Care Center,
and a whole spate of treatment and research facilities that are the
envy of medical centers everywhere.
George Zuidema came to the University of Michigan from The
Johns Hopkins University, where he had been serving as professor
and director of the Department of Surgery and surgeon-in-chief at
The Johns Hopkins Hospital. In some respects, this was a bit of a
homecoming, since he had been born in Holland, Michigan, had
attended Hope College, and had served as assistant and associate
professor of surgery at the University of Michigan from 1960-64. He
received his own medical training at The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, and completed his internship and residency at
Massachusetts General Hospital.
Dr. Zuidema's steady hand and watchful attention to the
pitfalls that surround health care training and health care delivery
have brought the medical center to a very strong leadership position
at it prepares to move into the 21st Century. The Regents now
commend him for his articulate direction of the medical center
during a period of remarkable growth and burgeoning complexity by
naming George D. Zuidema vice provost emeritus for medical
affairs.
There followed a round of applause, after which Dr. Zuidema thanked the
Regents for the resolution and everyone present for their understanding, cooperation, and goodwill over the years.
Resolution in Honor of Richard L. Kennedy
Regent Varner read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Richard LE
Kennedy as he completes 38 years of outstanding service and


333




June Meeting, 1994


leadership to the University community. The longest serving
executive officer in the history of the University, Richard Kennedy
has served with 19 different regents, five presidents, and 27 vice
presidents. In his 24 years as secretary of the university, his
signature has appeared on over 227,000 diplomas, a record which
may never be duplicated at this or any other university.
A Michigan native, Richard Kennedy graduated from the
University of Michigan in 1954. In 1955, he married Ann Marie
Moran, his college sweetheart, who became his career partner and
mother of their five children. He began his distinguished career at
the University in 1956 as a field representative with the Development
Council, where he developed the initial concept for the President's
Club, which to this day serves as the cornerstone of the University's
highly successful major gifts and capital campaign effort. In 1961,
he was recruited to serve as director of alumni relations at Duquesne
University in Pittsburgh, but returned to the University of Michigan
in 1962 as special assistant in the Office of University Relations.
From 1963-67, Dick served as executive director of the University's
Sesquicentennial Celebration, with overall responsibility for
planning and executing the year-long program commemorating the
University's 150th anniversary. He served as director of state and
community relations from 1968-70 and became secretary of the
university and assistant to the president in 1970. In 1974, he was
appointed vice president for state relations, and in 1984 his title was
changed to vice president for government relations to reflect his
broadened leadership role in state, community, and federal relations.
Under his guidance, the University established two major outreach
offices, in Washington, D.C. and in Lansing.
The long-time "dean of community affairs" at the University,
Dick has served on the boards of scores of University and community
organizations, including those governing M-Care, University
Hospitals, and Intercollegiate Athletics, as well as the Ann Arbor
Chamber of Commerce, Washtenaw United Way, University Musical
Society, and the Ann Arbor Summer Festival. His many roles in the
Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) over
the years led to his being acclaimed as a pioneer and innovator, and
in his being recruited to author a chapter on effective government
relations in the second edition of Handbook of Institutional
Advancement (1986)% Dick's unique skills and multiple talents have
also been recognized by the Big Ten Government Relations Officers
group, where he is known as "Big Ten lobbyist and chief piano
player."
Every large, complex, bureaucratic organization needs to have
one person who is so universally respected and admired that he is
understood to be the one who can be counted on for advice or
assistance when all else fails. Dick Kennedy has been that person at
the University of Michigan for more than 30 years. A man of
exceptional wisdom, insight, modesty, and unfailing good humor,
Dick has served as advisor, friend, and confidant to University and


334




June Meeting, 1994


community leaders, students, and many others from all walks of life.
The Regents now express their profound gratitude to Dick and Ann
Kennedy for their lifelong devotion and leadership and proudly
name Richard L. Kennedy secretary emeritus of the university.
There followed a round of applause, after which President Duderstadt called
on Regent Waters, who made the following motion:
Renaming of Union Drive
Regent Waters stated that "in further recognition of Dick's unparalleled
leadership, commitment, and service to the University community and to the Regents in his dual roles as vice president and secretary of the university, I move
that we rename Union Drive, Richard L. Kennedy Drive." He observed that this
would be a most fitting tribute to Vice President Kennedy, as due to his long tenure, he has probably spent more time in the Fleming Building than anyone else,
and that his office overlooks the street to be renamed.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
There followed a round of applause.
Vice President Kennedy expressed his gratefilness for the Regents' actions.
He observed that he owed much to all the people he had been associated with
over the years. The University is a "magnificent place", with a "magnificent set
of officers", and an "unmatched set of Regents". He expressed his enormous
pride at having been able to serve the University.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on July 14 and 15, 1994. Regents' expenses for the month of
May 1994 totaled $1902.35.
Richard L. Kenndy, Sectary


335




June Meeting, 1994


APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT, A COMPLETION ASSURANCE
AGREEMENT, A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT
AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ENGINEERING CENTER BUILDING
RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and among the State Building
Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "University"), providing for the
rights, duties and obligations of the Authority and the University with respect to the University's
Engineering Center Building and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) a form of completion assurance agreement (the "Completion Agreement"), between the
Authority and the University, providing assurance to the Authority that the University will proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner, (c) the conveyance of the Facility to the
Authority, (d) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the University and the State,
for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the University and (e) an easement agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between the Authority and the University, if necessary in
connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters related
thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and sites
therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or
any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the University has been maintained and created pursuant to Sections 4 and 5,
respectively, of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority finance the acquisition,
construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of the University
(i) granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order
to undertake such construction, renovation and/or equipping, (ii) undertaking on behalf of the
Authority the oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing to
provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide assurance to the Authority that the University will
proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State and the University
desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease
the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and
lease the same to the State and the University;, and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the University and the Facility will be constructed by the University and it is intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority by the
University and the Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out


337




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix A


necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State as
mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Universityr, and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house
and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section
5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the Lease shall be authorized by
the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is
necessary that the University authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements through the
Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a common
structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned by the
University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in order to meet any such requirement, it will be necessary for
authorized officers of the University to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such
easements or the sharing of a common structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the President and the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve
such changes in and modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely
affect the University.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Completion Agreement in substantially
the form attached as Exhibit B, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at
the appropriate time, the Completion Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B
for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Completion Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
University.
The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as acquired, to the Authority in accordance
with the Construction Agreement is hereby approved, and the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the
Construction Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D for and on behalf
of the University and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University
for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter the substance and intent thereof as
expressed in the Lease and the request for action submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of
the University contained in the Lease approved herein. The University hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers are
hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by


338




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix A


the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $2,687,000 in any 12-month period and a
lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement
from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements
through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned
by the University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the
reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver an Easement Agreement in order to meet any such requirement.
The President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions, including, without
limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority and the State and
signing certificates, documents or other instruments, each on behalf of the University, as they
deem necessary or desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement and the Lease (only upon its execution by authorized officers
of the University) and acknowledges that such obligation does not depend upon passage of title to
the Facility to the University without consideration upon termination of the Lease. The University hereby represents that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility
would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an
amount not in excess of $16,335,000.
All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


339




June Meeting, 1994


APPENDIX B
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT, A COMPLETION ASSURANCE
AGREEMENT, A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT
AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY INSTRUCTION CENTER
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and among the State Building
Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "University"), providing for the
rights, duties and obligations of the Authority and the University with respect to the University's
Integrated Technology Instruction Center and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility
to the Authority, (b) a form of completion assurance agreement (the "Completion Agreement"),
between the Authority and the University, providing assurance to the Authority that the University will proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner, (c) the conveyance of the Facility to
the Authority, (d) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the University and the
State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the University and (e) an easement
agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between the Authority and the University, if necessary
in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters related
thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and sites
therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or
any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the University has been maintained and created pursuant to Sections 4 and 5,
respectively, of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority finance the acquisition,
construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of the University
(i) granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order
to undertake such construction, renovation and/or equipping, (ii) undertaking on behalf of the
Authority the oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing to
provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide assurance to the Authority that the University will
proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State and the University
desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease
the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and
lease the same to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the University and the Facility will be constructed by the University and it is intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority by the
University and the Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out


341




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix B


necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State as
mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house
and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section
5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the Lease shall be authorized by
the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is
necessary that the University authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements through the
Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a common
structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned by the
University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in order to meet any such requirement, it will be necessary for
authorized officers of the University to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such
easements or the sharing of a common structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the President and the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve
such changes in and modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely
affect the University.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Completion Agreement in substantially
the form attached as Exhibit B, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at
the appropriate time, the Completion Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B
for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Completion Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
University.
The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as acquired, to the Authority in accordance
with the Construction Agreement is hereby approved, and the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the
Construction Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D for and on behalf
of the University and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University
for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter the substance and intent thereof as
expressed in the Lease and the request for action submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of
the University contained in the Lease approved herein. The University hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers are
hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by


342




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix B


the final appraisal of '"True Rental," but not exceeding $6,612,000 in any 12-month period and a
lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement
from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements
through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a
common strctural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned
by the University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the
reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver an Easement Agreement in order to meet any such requirement.
The President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions, including, without
limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority and the State and
signing certificates, documents or other instruments, each on behalf of the University, as they
deem necessary or desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement and the Lease (only upon its execution by authorized officers
of the University) and acknowledges that such obligation does not depend upon passage of title to
the Facility to the University without consideration upon termination of the Lease. The University hereby represents that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility
would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an
amount not in excess of $40,095,000.
All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


343




JUNE MEETING, 1994


APPENDIX C
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT, A COMPLETION ASSURANCE
AGREEMENT, A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT
AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
JAMES B. ANGELL HALL RENOVATION
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and among the State Building
Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "University"), providing for the
rights, duties and obligations of the Authority and the University with respect to the University's
James B. Angell Hall Renovation and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the construction,
renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the
Authority, (b) a form of completion assurance agreement (the "Completion Agreement"), between the Authority and the University, providing assurance to the Authority that the University will proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner, (c) the conveyance of the Facility to
the Authority, (d) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the University and the
State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the University and (e) an easement
agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between the Authority and the University, if necessary
in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters related
thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and sites
therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or
any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the University has been maintained and created pursuant to Sections 4 and 5,
respectively, of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority finance the acquisition,
construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of the University
(i) granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order
to undertake such construction, renovation and/or equipping, (ii) undertaking on behalf of the
Authority the oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing to
provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide assurance to the Authority that the University will
proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State and the University
desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease
the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and
lease the same to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the University and the Facility will be constructed by the University and it is intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority by the
University and the Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out


345




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix C


necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State as
mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house
and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section
5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the Lease shall be authorized by
the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is
necessary that the University authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will requre for future use certain easements through the
Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a common
structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned by the
University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in order to meet any such requirement, it will be necessary for
authorized officers of the University to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such
easements or the sharing of a comon structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the President and the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve
such changes in and modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely
affect the University.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Completion Agreement in substantially
the form attached as   bit B, the dPresident and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at
the appropriate time, the Completion Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B
for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Completion Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
University.
The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as acuired, to the Authority in accordance
with the Construction Agreement is hereby approved, and the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the
Construction Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D for and on behalf
of the University and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University
for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter the substance and intent thereof as
expressed in the Lease and the request for action submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of
the University contained in the Lease approved herein. The University hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers are
hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by


346




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix C


the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $2,659,000 in any 12-month period and a
lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement
from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements
through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned
by the University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the
reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver an Easement Agreement in order to meet any such requirement.
The President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions, including, without
limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority and the State and
signing certificates, documents or other instruments, each on behalf of the University, as they
deem necessary or desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement and the Lease (only upon its execution by authorized officers
of the University) and acknowledges that such obligation does not depend upon passage of title to
the Facility to the University without consideration upon termination of the Lease. The University hereby represents that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility
would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an
amount not in excess of $15,840,000.
All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


347




JUNE MEETING, 1994


APPENDIX D
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT, A COMPLETION ASSURANCE
AGREEMENT, A CONVEYANCE OFPROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT
AGREEMENT,IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
CLARENCE COOK LITTLE SCIENCE BUILDING RENOVATION
RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and among the State Building
Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "University"), providing for the
rights, duties and obligations of the Authority and the University with respect to the University's
Clarence Cook Little Science Building Renovation and the site therefor (the "Facility") during
the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the
Facility to the Authority, (b) a form of completion assurance agreement (the "Completion Agreement"), between the Authority and the University, providing assurance to the Authority that the
University will proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner, (c) the conveyance of the
Facility to the Authority, (d) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the University
and the State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the University and (e) an
easement agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between the Authority and the University, if
necessary in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters
related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and sites
therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or
any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the University has been maintained and created pursuant to Sections 4 and 5,
respectively, of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority finance the acquisition,
construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of the University
(i) granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order
to undertake such construction, renovation and/or equipping, (ii) undertaking on behalf of the
Authority the oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing to
provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide assurance to the Authority that the University will
proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State and the University
desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease
the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and
lease the same to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the University and the Facility will be constructed by the University and it is intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority by the
University and the Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out


349




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix D


necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State as
mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house
and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section
5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the Lease shall be authorized by
the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is
necessary that the University authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements through the
Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a common
structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned by the
University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in order to meet any such requirement, it will be necessary for
authorized officers of the University to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such
easements or the sharing of a common structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the President and the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve
such changes in and modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely
affect the University.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Completion Agreement in substantially
the form attached as Exhibit B, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at
the appropriate time, the Completion Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B
for and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Completion Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
University.
The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as acquired, to the Authority in accordance
with the Construction Agreement is hereby approved, and the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D, and the President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the
Construction Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D for and on behalf
of the University and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University
for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes
in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter the substance and intent thereof as
expressed in the Lease and the request for action submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of
the University contained in the Lease approved herein. The University hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers are
hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by


350




June Meeting, 1994 - Appendix D


the final appraisal of '"True Rental," but not exceeding $2,803,000 in any 12-month period and a
lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement
from a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the University will require for future use certain easements
through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned
by the University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the
reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver an Easement Agreement in order to meet any such requirement.
The President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions, including, without
limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority and the State and
signing certificates, documents or other instruments, each on behalf of the University, as they
deem necessary or desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement and the Lease (only upon its execution by authorized officers
of the University) and acknowledges that such obligation does not depend upon passage of title to
the Facility to the University without consideration upon termination of the Lease. The University hereby represents that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility
would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an
amount not in excess of $16,335,000.
All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


351




ADDENDUM


The following item was approved at the meeting of April 1993, but was
omitted from the July 1992-June 1993 volume of the Proceedings of the Board of
Regents:
Proposed Research Contract between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent McFee, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a research contract between the
University of Michigan and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc.
(TSRL). Because the president of TSRL, Gordon L. Amidon, and principal investigator of the project for TSRL, Hye J. Lee, are also a University employees, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
TSRL, Inc.;
2.   The contract to be signed is the University's standard research contract. The
University will be paid $20,548 in direct costs and $9,452 in indirect costs for a
one-year project. The indirect cost amount reflects the University's full indirect
cost rate.
3.   Professor Amidon's financial interst arises from his ownership of TSRL. Dr.
Lee will be paid solely by the University for her work on the proposed project.
She will, of course, continue to receive compensation from TSRL for her work
as a TSRL employee.


353



