
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
The University of Michigan
July 1994 - June 1995




JULY MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 14, 1994
The Regents met at 1:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Interim Secretary Johnson was also present, as were Executive Vice President Womack, Provost Whitaker, Vice Presidents Cosovich and
Harrison, and Chancellors Kugler and Renick. Vice President Hartford was
absent; Vice President Neal arrived at about 2:00 p.m.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Interim
Secretary Harold R. Johnson to the table. He stated that the meeting would
begin with a presentation on revenue and expenditure budgets, then proceed to
the regular business agenda, then to Public Comments. The vote on the budgets
would not occur until after Public Comments.
1994-95 General Fund Operating Budget
Provost Whitaker observed that the budget is actually one of a series of
policy instruments that represent the University's dual objectives of being a first
rate research university of the highest quality which is committed to a quality
undergraduate education, and second, being financially accessible to admitted
Michigan undergraduate students. Annual budgets are simply devices to apply
resources for meeting University and societal challenges and for setting annual
fees consistent with those objectives. He noted that the state, through its appropriations decisions, had decided implicitly in recent years that the proportions of
university costs born by students and parents will increase.
Provost Whitaker reported that over the last four years, units have been
made increasingly responsible for revenues by managing enrollment and being
accountable for costs. Through "innovation by substitution," they are also
expected to fund portions of salary increases and new initiatives by reducing
costs in other areas. During the last four years, major strides have been made in
renovating old buildings and building new facilities, while also making inroads
into deferred maintenance. He described a joint collection strategy with CIC
institutions that will enhance student/faculty access to library materials without
every library having to own every item. He also described several initiatives in
undergraduate education which are beginning to show results.
Provost Whitaker stated that the fundamental budget objectives were to
maintain and enhance the quality of instructional and research programs;
increase the quality of the undergraduate educational experience; maintain and
enhance access for Michigan undergraduates; move toward racial and gender
distributions more closely reflecting their proportions in the population; mount a
reasonable compensation program; increase investment in the maintenance of
the infrastructure and continue to reduce the deferred maintenance backlog; and




July Meeting, 1994


provide reserves against potential revenue shortfalls so as to avoid imposition of
mid-year reductions on individual units.
The incremental General Fund revenue budget of $37.1 million (5.5 percent), is comprised of an increase of $6.3 million in state appropriation, $30.4
million in student tuition and fees, $0.0 increase in indirect cost recovery, and
$0.6 million in "other" (primarily interest income on fund balances). The infrastructure maintenance fee, which will not increase, will generate an additional
$0.2 million. The recommended total General Fund revenue budget for FY 94-95
is $708.8 million. Provost Whitaker displayed a graph illustrating the historical
makeup of the General Fund budget, noting that in the proposed 1994-95
budget, 53.0 percent will be funded by student tuition and fees, 37.0 percent by
state appropriation, and 10.0 percent by indirect cost recovery and other sources.
This is in contrast to the situation that had existed prior to about 1990 in which
more than   half of the General Fund budget was derived from        state
appropriation.
Provost Whitaker said that the proposed incremental funding, will be in the
areas of compensation ($12.7 million), student support ($6.8 million), faculty
hiring for diversity ($1.7 million), undergraduate initiatives ($1.8 million),
critical academic needs ($2.9 million), fixed costs ($5.8 million), infrastructure
maintenance ($0.2 million), "pass through" revenue ($2.0 million), and flexible
reserve ($3.2 million).
Regarding tuition and fees, Provost Whitaker noted that other Michigan
public universities had approved increases in tuition and fees ranging from 3.5 to
17.7 percent, while other Big Ten public institutions had approved increases
ranging from 3.5 to 11.0 percent. He also displayed a chart comparing the
increased tuition cost to a Michigan first-year undergraduate at selected national
peer universities, which ranged from a high of $1,994 (Duke University) to a low
of $336 at the University of Michigan Ann Arbor campus, and showed another
chart comparing the 1994-95 UM tuition cost for a Michigan first-year undergraduate compared to the cost of tuition at other top universities ($5,215 at UM
to a high of $20,100 at MIT).
The recommended student fee rate increase is 6.9 percent for full-time, fullterm resident undergraduates, with special increases for some programs and an
increase of 5.0 percent for all other fill-time, full-term students (exact rates are
detailed in the Regents Communication).
Provost Whitaker explained why the incremental budget of $9.0 million of
proposed new expenditures in excess of inflation is necessary to maintain the
University's intellectual vitality. He pointed out that $9.0 million for academic
and educational programs represents only 1.3 percent of the $708.8 million
budget. About 35.0 percent of the incremental budget is to be used for faculty
and staff compensation, with 65.0 percent for increased student support, operation of new space, specific program improvements, and the creation of a reserve
against revenue shortfalls. Given the modest increase in state support and the
recommended tuition increases which are less than the high levels of recent


2




July Meeting, 1994


years, he concluded that this was a responsible budget and he recommended
approval.
1994-95 UM-Dearborn General Fund Budget
Chancellor Renick stated that the budget priorities for the Dearborn campus
focus on teaching and learning. Expenditures include funding for an additional
three faculty lines, computer technology and literature activity, a modest salary
program of about 2.5 percent, and classroom innovation. Revenue is derived
from state appropriation (47 percent), and tuition (53 percent), with a proposed
tuition increase of 4.3 percent.
1994-95 UM-Flint General Fund Budget
Chancellor Kugler reported that two strong factors motivated the budget for
the Flint campus: 1) a three percent decline in enrollment during 1993-94 and a
projected additional decline for 1994-95, both of which negatively affect tuition
revenue; and 2) the opening of the new Frances Willson Thompson Library,
which will require additional operating funds.
The proposed tuition increase for the Flint campus is 6.3 percent, with a corresponding increase in the General Fund scholarship fund. Chancellor Kugler
indicated that one reason for the enrollment decline is a national decline in interest in the area of business. To offset this, the Flint campus is building its
programs in the health sciences, particularly physical therapy and nursing, which
are the areas experiencing strong student interest. A portion of the additional
revenues will be allocated to the nursing program, as well as an internal reallocation from business areas to nursing, in order to meet student demand.
Comments by President Duderstadt
President Duderstadt observed that the Ann Arbor campus had received the
lowest increase in state appropriation of any of the 15 public institutions (2.2 percent), which has been the case for most of the past 10-15 years. He displayed a
graph illustrating that the state appropriation increase had not exceeded the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the past 8 years. He also displayed charts illustrating the declining share of state appropriations for the University of Michigan
Ann Arbor campus and Michigan State University as compared to the share of
the "Little Twelve" public universities. President Duderstadt also pointed out
that while the state of Michigan ranked significantly below the national average
in state support of public higher education, it ranked first in public support of
private higher education, with almost 10.0 percent of the higher education appropriation budget going to private institutions.
Finally, he observed that while Fortune magazine had recently recognized
Ann Arbor as one of the centers of the knowledge-driven industry that will be
key players in America's economic future, public policy, as represented by higher
education funding trends, is moving in the opposite direction from the future
direction of the state's economy. This has undermined the capacity of the larger
institutions (UM-Ann Arbor, Michigan State, and Wayne State) to play the role
that they are expected to play in Michigan.


3




July Meeting, 1994


There followed a discussion about the budget proposal and the president's
observations. Provost Whitaker and President Duderstadt responded to comments from Regents Varner and Baker about the nature of the reallocation
process. Regent Baker observed that many attempts have been made to educate
policy makers and citizens about the public policy issues surrounding the higher
education appropriation, and that things haven't changed. President Duderstadt
responded that the appropriations process itself has to be re-examined. In addition, because the state's three research universities will play a key role in the
knowledge-driven economy of the 21st century, the state needs to recognize this
and begin to view these institutions as an investment in its economic future,
perhaps through devices other than the higher education appropriation.
Regent Deitch commented that within the framework of current realities,
the budget proposal was responsible and well-thought-out. He noted that the
state's prison system has benefited financially at the expense of educational institutions, and that citizens need to be aware of the ramifications of "investing in
the failures of our society as opposed to building for our success."
Regent McFee observed that the state has made substantial physical investments in institutions located in areas of minimal population that are having difficulty maintaining an adequate student population, at the same time decreasing
its investment in the research institutions. Meanwhile, the University has relied
increasingly on its own resources to meet its needs, which has increased the
burden on instate students, causing them to carry an ever higher percentage of
the cost of their education. Regent McFee suggested that the Board and the
institution as a whole should focus attention on this problem and see what could
be done to change ito
Regent Power recounted his experience with the Research Excellence Fund
some years ago, in which the legislative process made it politically unfeasible to
allocate to the University of Michigan the percentage of the available money that
corresponded to the amount of its sponsored research compared with that of
other state institutions, which would have equaled about 80 percent of the fund.
This illustrates the political unfeasibility of specifically allocating resources to the
institutions where they would do the most good for Michigan's citizens. Regent
Power also pointed out that although the state currently spends 5 times more per
capita on prisoners than on students in kindergarten through 12th grade, many
citizens believe this is entirely appropriate.
In response to a question from. Regent Power, Chancellor Kugler reported
that there had been a 15 percent decrease in enrollment in business programs in
the last three years, but a dramatic increase in the physical therapy and nursing
programs, with 500 applicants for 36 available slots for the last physical therapy
class. If the number of available openings in physical therapy and nursing
program could have been increased, the campus would not have experienced an
overall enrollment decline. It is very difficult to adjust quickly to changes in
supply and demand on a campus such as Flint with limited physical and
programmatic facilities.


4




July Meeting, 1994


Further discussion ensued regarding whether the University has been able
to document increased levels of productivity over the past few years, with Provost
Whitaker and Executive Vice President Womack agreeing that certain measures
do indicate that productivity levels have increased.
In response to a question from Regent Brown about the issue of higher education appropriations being allocated to private institutions, President Duderstadt indicated that the amount equals about $110 million. Several of the
Regents pointed out that this practice increases the financial burden on students
who attend the state's public institutions. Regent Power asked that the Regents
be presented with an analysis of the programs by which public funds are allocated to private institutions. Further discussion ensued about the sensitivity of
this issue and its importance in the overall picture of higher education funding.
Regent Deitch pointed out that because major changes in public policy do
not happen overnight, the Regents' responsibility as stewards charged with
maintaining the institution's excellence requires provision of adequate resources
while managing the institution as efficiently and with as much self-reliance as
possible.
1994-95 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
Executive Vice President Womack gave a slide presentation describing the
1994-95 revenue and expenditure operating budgets. He noted that the University's operating budget is comprised of four funds: the General, Designated,
Auxiliary Activities, and Expendable Restricted Funds. The 1994-95 revenue
budget is $2.375 billion; the expenditure budget is $2.250 billion; these figures
represent increases of 5.3 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively. The revenue
budget is made up of the Auxiliary Activities-Medical Fund (40.0 percent); the
General Fund (33.0 percent); the Expendable Restricted Fund (18.0 percent); the
Auxiliary-Other Fund (6.0 percent); and the Designated Fund (3.0 percent).
Executive Vice President Womack displayed diagrams illustrating each revenue fund by source as well as ten-year comparisons of the amount of each fund.
It was noted that revenues from the Auxiliary Activities-Medical fund comprise
63 percent of the entire Auxiliary Activities Fund and about 46 percent of the
entire revenue budget.
Following this presentation, President Duderstadt announced that he would
not call for action on the student fee and operating budget action requests until
after Public Comments. Executive Vice President Womack introduced staff
members on his budget team who had participated in preparing the budget
material.
There followed a ten-minute recess at 2:45 p.m., after which the meeting
reconvened, at 2:55 p.m.
Minutes
May 1994 Minutes. Regent McGowan moved approval of the minutes of
the meeting of May 19 and 20, 1994. Regent Power seconded the motion.


5




July Meeting, 1994


Regent Baker stated that he did not agree with some of the assertions and
conclusions that were made at that meeting and requested that his suggested
corrections to the minutes be placed on file in the Office of the Secretary of the
University. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved, with
Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor,
and Regent Baker opposed.
June 1994 Minutes. Regent Deitch moved approval of the minutes of the
meeting of June 16 and 17, 1994. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and non-competitive
purchases over $2,000. He responded to comments from Regent Baker about the
Investment Report and the Litigation Report.
Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established, and summaries of a selection of current research. He announced that the University had received funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities for completion
of the Middle English Dictionary Project.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Cosovich reported that due to the
timing of the meeting with the ending of the fiscal year, the Reports of Voluntary
Support for June and for fiscal year 1993-94 would both be submitted at the
September Regents' Meeting. However, preliminary figures indicate that the
year-end total for private gift support will equal $118,700,000 for 1993-94, which
is an all-time record.
President Duderstadt observed that this would be Vice President Cosovich's
last meeting as vice president for development; as of September 1, he would be
assuming the role of deputy to the president. His accomplishments in the area of
development over the past ten years will present an extraordinary challenge for
his successor. Regent Baker expressed gratitude to Vice President Cosovich on
behalf of the Regents for all of his efforts and accomplishments in his role as vice
president for development.
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted personnel actions, highlighting recommendations for four distinguished professorships, along with several other personnel actions. Chancellor Kugler noted the recommendation
regarding the David M. French professorship.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Cebulski, Paulette M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, and Director,
Department of Physical Therapy, UM-Flint, three-year term, August 1, 1994


6




July Meeting, 1994


Herzog, Donald J., from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of
Law, without tenure, to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor
of Law, with tenure
Neville-Andrews, John, Associate Professor of Theatre
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Bartell, Lawrence S., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Philip J. Elving Professor of
Chemistry, returned to active status summer term 1994
Bohr, David F., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, returned to active status, one-year term
Eagle, Herbert J., reappointed Director, Residential College, one-year term
Edwards, Alfred L., Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, returned to active status,
one-year term, September 1, 1994
Gage, Lois W., Professor Emeritus of Nursing, returned to active status, academic year,
September 1, 1994
Hawkins, Joseph E., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physiological Acoustics, returned to active status,
two-year term, retroactive from September 1, 1993
Hennessey, William J., reappointed Director, Museum of Art, five-year term, January 1, 1995
LaDu, Bert N., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, returned to active status, one-year term
Patterson, Willis C. reappointed Associate Dean, School of Music, three-year term
Shields, Dennis J., reappointed Assistant Dean, Law School, three-year term
Storey, Alfred W., Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech, returned to active status, fall
term, September 1, 1994
Zannoni, Vincent G., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, returned to active status,
one-year term
Zeff, Jacqueline L., reappointed Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, three-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Ashford, Susan J., Associate Professor of Human Resource Management and Organizational
Behavior, with tenure, also appointed Interim Associate Dean, School of Business
Administration, one-year term, September 1, 1994
Cohen, David W., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, without tenure,
and Director, International Institute, also appointed Interim Director, Center for Japanese
Studies, one-year term
Kimeldorf, Howard A, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, also appointed Acting
Chair, Department of Sociology, one-year term
Marston, Wilfred G., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work, UM-Flint, one-year term
Nas, Tevfik F., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting Chair,
Department of Economics, UM-Flint, six-month term
Nelms, Charlie, Chancellor, UM-Flint, also appointed Professor of Education, without tenure,
and Professor of Public Administration, without tenure, UM-Flint, August 1, 1994
Stach, Robert W., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Chemistry, UM-Flint, three-year term
Studier, Eugene H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Biology, UM-Flint, three-year term
West, Edward, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Graduate Education, School of Art, three-year term, September 1, 1994


7




July Meeting, 1994


LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Newby, Stephen M., Instructor in Music, educational leave extended
Whyte, Martin K., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Director, Center for Research on
Social Organization, leave without salary extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Bolcom, William E., Professor of Music, with tenure, also appointed Ross Lee Finney
Distinguished University Professor of Music
Gibbard, Allan F., from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Richard B. Brandt Professor of
Philosophy, to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Richard B. Brandt Distinguished
University Professor of Philosophy
Leonard, James A., Jr., appointed Interim Chair, Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, July 15, 1994
Marsh, William M., Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
David M. French Professor, UM-Flint, two-year term, July 1, 1994
Moerman, Daniel E., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, also appointed
William E. Stirton Professor of Anthropology, UM-Dearborn, five-year term
Vicinus, Martha J., Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, with
tenure, Professor of History, without tenure, and Chair, Department of English Language
and Literature, also appointed Eliza M. Mosher Distinguished University Professor of
English, Women's Studies, and History
Weber, Walter J., Jr., from Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, and Ernest Boyce
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, to Professor of Civil Engineering, with
tenure, and Gordon Maskew Fair and Ernest Boyce Distinguished University Professor of
Environmental Sciences and Engineering
Rhetaugh Graves Dumas Professorship in Nursing. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Rhetaugh Graves Dumas Professorship in
Nursing, effective July 1, 1994.
Kasimir Fajans Professorship in Chemistry, Physics and Applied
Physics. The Regents approved the establishment of the Kasimir Fajans Professorship in Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics, effective September 1, 1994.
Merwin H. Waterman Collegiate Professorship in Finance.                 The
Regents approved the establishment of the Merwin H. Waterman Collegiate
Professorship in Finance, effective September 1, 1994.
George D. Zuidema Professorship in Surgery. The Regents approved
the establishment of the George D. Zuidema Professorship in Surgery, effective
July 1, 1994.
Senior Associate Dean (Academic Affairs), Medical School.               The
Regents approved the establishment of the position of senior associate dean
(academic affairs), Medical School, effective July 15, 1994.


8




July Meeting, 1994


Interim   Appointment Approval. The Regents authorized the president
or the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make such
interim  appointments and/or changes from      August 1-August 31, 1994 as may
become necessary to complete the staffing for the fall term.
Conummittee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted:
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Gray, Donald H., August 1, 1994-July 31, 1996, vice Daniel G. Green, term expired
Wasserman, Arthur G., August 1, 1994-July 31, 1996, vice Larry D. Nooden, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Courant, Paul N., January 1, 1995-June 30, 1995, vice Albert I. Hermalin, scholarly activity leave
Frier, Bruce W., July 1, 1994-June 30, 1995, vice Peter A. Railton, duty off campus
Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
Adelman, Richard C., reappointed, July 1, 1994-June 30, 1997
University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
Orringer, Mark B., July 1, 1994-June 30, 1998, vice John F. Greden, term expired
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Chambers, L. Ross, September 1, 1994-August 31, 1997, vice William R. Paulson, term expired
Cohen, David W., September 1, 1994-August 31, 1997, vice Sabine G. MacCormack, term expired
Gere, Anne R., September 1, 1994-August 31, 1997, vice Robert M. Stem, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Whittaker submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Fort, Timothy L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Law, September 1, 1994
Lovejoy, William S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration, May 1, 1994
Sutcliffe, Kathleen M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human
Resource Management, September 1, 1994
Law School
Bennett, Paul E., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, June 1, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alt, Jeffrey C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Beckham, Eugene C., III, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Zoology
Brandon, Mark E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, September 1, 1994
Cerrudo, Kimberly S., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology
Cui, Shuqin, M.A, Lecturer II in Chinese, June 13, 1994
Drummond, Carl N., Jr., B.S., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Hara, Masahiro, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese, June 13, 1994
Lian, Xinda, M.A., Lecturer II in Chinese, June 13, 1994
Masuda, Rie, B.A., Lecturer I in Japanese, June 13, 1994
Matsumoto, Saburo, M.S., Lecturer II in Japanese, June 13, 1994
McShea, Daniel W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, September 1, 1994
Place, Emi, B.A, Lecturer II in Japanese, June 13, 1994
Thompson, Heather A, M.S., Lecturer II in History
Vesey, Mika W., B.A., Lecturer II in Japanese, June 13, 1994
Williams, Olive, M.S., Lecturer II in Biology
Yaquinto, Marilyn A, M.A., Lecturer II in Communication, May 1, 1994


9




July Meeting, 1994


Medical School
Allen, Richard B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Bass, James C., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Bomalaski, Martin D., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery
Bradley, Scott M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery
Burke, James J., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Doi, Kei, Ph.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Gabriel, Helena, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Gerndt, Steven J., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery
Lewis, Kimberly G., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
McCullough, Neil B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Mittelman, Mark A, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Murphy, Kieran P., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Patel, Rajesh N., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Patterson, Stephanie K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Sahijdak, Walter M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Radiation Oncology
Telesnitsky, Alice, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Van Erp, Jeffrey S., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Yutzy, Gerald G., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
School of Music
Cheek, Timothy M., M.M., Lecturer in Music, September 1, 1994
Simmons, Renee A, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, September 1, 1994
College of Pharmacy
Diener, Kathy M., Pharm.D.,   Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, June 6,1994
School of Social Work
Wallace, John M., Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, September 1, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Clark, Rex, M.A, Lecturer in German, September 1, 1994
Jacobs, Claude F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Behavioral Sciences, September 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Brockbank, Joseph W., from Assistant Professor Organizational Behavior to Visiting Assistant
Professor of Organizational Behavior
Johnson, Robert V., from Associate Professor of Operations Management, without tenure, to
Adjunct Associate Professor of Operations Management
College of Engineering
Clarke, John T., from Assistant Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences to
Visiting Research Scientist, Space Physics Research Laboratory, June 1, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Chemaly, Mike G., from Lecturer I to Visiting Assistant Research Scientist in Chemistry,
May 1, 1994
Medical School
Mitchell, Joyce M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, May 1, 1994
Nastelin, Jennifer G., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine


10




July Meeting, 1994


School of Nursing
Pender, Nola J., from Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Director, Center for Nursing
Research, to Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs
and Research, School of Nursing, June 1, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Olmsted, Jennifer C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Economics, May 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Bernard, Victor L., Price Waterhouse Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Cox, Taylor, Jr., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, without tenure, scholarly activity leave
Desarbo, Wayne S., Professor of Marketing and Statistics, with tenure, and Sebastian S. Kresge
Professor of Marketing, sabbatical leave
Imhoff, Eugene A., Jr., Ernst & Young Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Kaul, Gautam, Professor of Finance, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Miller, Edwin L., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1, 1994-June 30, 1995
Murtha, Thomas P., Assistant Professor of International Business, leave without salary
Prahalad, Coimbatore K., Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, with
tenure, and Harvey C. Fruehauf Professor of Business Administration, sabbatical leave
Quinn, Robert E., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Schriber, Thomas J., Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Gregory, William A., Clinical Professor II of Dentistry, retirement furlough, July 1, 1994 -June 30, 1996
Keevil, Joan M., Associate Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure, School of Dentistry,
and Lecturer in Dental Public Health, School of Public Health, extended sick leave,
May 20, 1994-May 19, 1995
School of Education
Lowther, Malcolm A, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough
College of Engineering
Hanson, Robert D., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure,
intergovernmental leave, June 1, 1994-May 31, 1996
Division of Kinesiology
Worringham, Charles J., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Adams, William J., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Axelrod, Robert, Arthur W. Bromage Distinguished University Professor of Political Science and
Public Policy, with tenure, duty off campus
Basu, Susanto, Assistant Professor of Economics, scholarly activity leave
Bergmann, Frithjof H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 1995
Cabrielli, Michel J. O., Lecturer III in French, leave without salary
Hymans, Saul H., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995


11




July Meeting, 1994


Laugesen, Richard S., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly
activity leave
Lee, Lung-Fei, Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary
Lee, Stephen, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1I
December 31, 1995
Lippi-Green, Rosina L., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Nordman, Christer E., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough
Oakley, Bruce, Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Rosello, Mireille D., Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
leave without salary
Scott, G. Peter, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Spink, Walter M., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Tabbaa, Yasser A., Assistant Professor of History of Art, scholarly activity leave
Weisskopf, Thomas E., Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Medical School
Curtis, George C., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, retirement furlough, June 1, 1994 -May 31, 1997
Dunnick, Wesley, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, June 15-December 15, 1994
Kileny, Paul, Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Director of Speech and
Audiology, duty off campus, June 6-July 6, 1994
Lawrence, Theodore S., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
April 18-October 17, 1994
School of Nursing
Simms, Lillian M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, retirement furlough
Office of the President
Kennedy, Richard L., Vice President for Government Relations and Secretary of the University,
extended sick leave, July 1, 1994-June 30, 1995
School of Public Health
Geronimus, Arline T., Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Cohn, Thomas S., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 24 -August 31, 1994
Moerman, Daniel E., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-April 30, 1995
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Feldt, Allan G., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, retired
School of Business Administration
Amin, Kaushik I., Assistant Professor of Finance, resigned, May 13, 1994
Khanna, Naveen, Assistant Professor of Finance, term complete
Kodres, Laura E., Assistant Professor of Finance, term complete
Ng, Victor K. C., Assistant Professor of Finance, term complete
School of Dentistry
Brown, Rhonda, Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete, June 30, 1994
Griffith, Maryann S., Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete, June 30, 1994
Muhlstein, Denis, Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete, June 30, 1994


12




July Meeting, 1994


School of Education
Dyer, Jerry A, Lecturer in Education, resigned, June 30, 1994
College of Engineering
Hughes, David Y., Professor of Humanities, with tenure, retired
Johnson, Glen E., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, resigned
Division of Kinesiology
Larkins, Clifford, Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, term complete
Weikart, Phyllis S., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, retired
Law School
Bollinger, Lee C., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Dean, Law School, resigned, June 30, 1994
Mayer, Yvonne M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, resigned
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aitches, Marian A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Caballero-Robb, Maria E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Cernich, Christopher M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Davenport, Edwin J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
DeConick, April D., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, term complete, June 30, 1994
Dickson, Douglas G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retired
Douthit, Harry A, Jr., Professor of Botany, with tenure, retired
Gilman, Susan J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Gitik, Rita, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, June 30, 1994
Grillakis, Manoussos, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, resigned
Hersh, Allison L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Hurbis-Cherrier, Katherine M., Lecturer II in Communication and Lecturer II in Film and Vide
Studies, term complete, April 30, 1994
Iglesias, Miguel A, Lecturer II in Spanish Language and Literature, term complete
Kelley, Robin D. G., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, resigned
Kolars, John F., Professor of Near Eastern Studies and Geography, with tenure, retired
Laskowski, Gene L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Leonard, Clifford S., Jr., Associate Professor of Romance Linguistics, with tenure, retired
Levenson, Ana I., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1994
Martin, Timothy J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
McLaughlin, Jack E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retired
Nelson, Roy J., Professor of French, with tenure, retired
Rapisardi, Dana, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Stone, Carolyn, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete
Trapp, Rolland J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, June 30, 1994
Vovin, Alexander V., Assistant Professor of Japanese Languages and Linguistics, resigned
Ye, Zaifei, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, June 30, 1994
Zhang, Jian J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete
Medical School
Baird, Angus T., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Balkissoon, Avinash R. A, Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Brisson, Louis J., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Bromberg, Mark B., Assistant Professor of Neurology, resigned, May 24, 1994
Chee, Pauline W. L., Clinical Instructor II in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Ghaffari, Sasan, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, June 9, 1994
Glaser, Frederick B., Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, resigned, June 30, 1994
Graham, Cheryl S., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned
Jacoby, William T., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Krueger, Kathryn A, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Largent, Brian L., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Lombardi, Thomas J., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Lundquist, Craig A, Instructor in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994


13




July Meeting, 1994


Norton, Martin L., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, retired,
June 30, 1994
Remer, Erick M., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Sherman, Leonard S., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Wira, Raymund L., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, June 30, 1994
Zannoni, Vincent G., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Environmental and Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public Health, retired,
June 30, 1994
School of Music
Moteki, Mutsumi, Lecturer in Music (Vocal Arts), resigned
Watkins, Howard D., Lecturer in Dance, resigned
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Crowfoot, James E., Professor of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, with
tenure, retired, July 31, 1994
College of Pharmacy
McCauley, Dayna L., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, resigned, June 24, 1994
School of Social Work
Kissman, Kris, Assistant Professor of Social Work, term complete
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Curtis, Theodore T., Assistant Professor of Sociology, retired
Heywood, Robert W., Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair, Department of History,
retired
O'Keeffe, Vincent C., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, retired
Rose, Frank E., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Weber, Charles T., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, retired
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Loubert, Peter V., Assistant Professor of Physical Therapy, resigned, June 30, 1994
Retirement Memoirs. The following retirement memoirs were submitted:
Theodore T. Curtis, assistant professor of sociology at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a distinguished career as a teacher and department leader.
A native of Utah, Professor Curtis received his B.S. degree from the University of Utah in 1951 and his AM. degree from the University of Michigan in
1956. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint as a lecturer in
1965 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1971.
Professor Curtis has played an important role in the development of diverse
programs on the Flint campus, including sociology, criminal justice, AfricanAmerican studies, and social work. He has been especially effective as a teacher
and student advisor. He served as chair of the Department of Sociology/Anthropology from    1979-82 and served as well on numerous departmental and
University committees.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Theodore T. Curtis assistant professor emeritus of sociology.
Harry A. Douthit, Jr., professor of botany in the Department of Biology,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, following 27 years of service
at the University of Michigan.


14




July Meeting, 1994


After serving in the U.S. Army from 1956-59, Professor Douthit received his
AB. degree in 1961 and his Ph.D. degree in 1965, both from the University of
Texas. Following three years as a post-doctoral fellow at the University of
Wisconsin, Professor Douthit joined the University of Michigan Department of
Botany as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in
1973 and professor in 1975.
Immediately upon his arrival at the University, Professor Douthit initiated
the general microbiology course that still forms the core of the undergraduate
microbiology concentration. The courses he has taught range from microbiology
to introductory biology, for both majors and non-majors, to advanced courses in
microbiology and biochemistry.
Throughout his career, Professor Douthit's research interests have centered
on the nature of the bacterial spore and the mechanisms that release and activate
it from dormancy. Beginning with studies of the structure of DNA in bacterial
endospores, Professor Douthit went on to study the capacity of spores for protein
synthesis and the mechanisms by which spores emerge from dormancy. The
results of his research have been published in widely-disseminated, broad-based
journals such as Science.
In 1973, Professor Douthit received the University's Distinguished Service
Award. Other honors include visiting professorships at the Institute for Microbiology in G6ttingen, Germany, and in the Department of Biochemistry at Michigan State University. Professor Douthit's generosity with his time is also
evidenced by his collaborations with colleagues in the Department of Biology, as
well as by his service on a large number of doctoral committees in four different
colleges within the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his many contributions to
the Department of Biology and the University community by naming Harry A
Douthit, Jr., professor emeritus of botany.
Robert Wo Heywood, professor of history at the University of MichiganFlint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a distinguished
career as a teacher, scholar, and department and campus leader.
Professor Heywood received his AB. degree from the University of Massachusetts in 1955 and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Illinois
in 1956 and 1959, respectively. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan-Flint as an associate professor in 1965 and was promoted to professor
in 1968.
Professor Heywood has inspired many cohorts of students in the study of
history at all levels-from the western civilization survey course to upper division
courses in modern Europe, European intellectual history, German history, and
Russian history. His own interest in contemporary Europe resulted in the publication of the book, European Community: Idea and Reality in 1990 (which is also
being published in Hungarian and Russian). He is currently working on a companion volume, European Community in Its Global Setting.
Professor Heywood's faculty leadership has included work as academic dean
and four terms as chair of the Department of History, as well as service on the
Faculty Assembly, College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee (three
terms), and on every standing committee of the college.  A voice for the


15




July Meeting, 1994


University, Professor Heywood frequently has brought European history and
contemporary events to community organizations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service and many accomplishments by naming Robert W. Heywood professor
emeritus of history.
John F. Kolars, professor of Near Eastern studies and geography, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a distinguished career as a
scholar, teacher, and social scientist.
A native of Washington, Professor Kolars received his B.S. and M.A degrees
from the University of Washington in 1952 and 1958, respectively, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Chicago in 1963. From 1961-64, he served on the
faculty of Rutgers University. He came to the University of Michigan in 1964 as
an assistant professor of geography; he was promoted to associate professor in
1966 and professor in 1971. In 1981, he received the additional appointment of
professor of Near Eastern studies. From 1984-85, and again in 1989, he served
as distinguished visiting professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy. Since 1977, he
has regularly lectured on the topic, "The Middle East as an Ecosystem," for the
U.S. Department of State Foreign Service Institute.
Professor Kolars is a consummate geographer who has combined scholarship with practical applications. His early works are widely referenced in the
cultural geography literature for both content and methodological example. For
the last two decades, his scholarship has focused on water issues in the Middle
East, especially the Euphrates-Tigris and Litani river basins. Professor Kolars
has offered a neutral voice in this volatile region, allowing him to act as a
go-between on sensitive issues that divide the hostile parties. He is effective in
this turbulent arena because his geographical approach combines deep
knowledge and insight about the area's diverse cultures with an understanding
of the physical and environmental processes that characterize the region.
One of the more memorable teachers in recent University history, his
"Introduction to Geography" course, filled with poetry and performance,
regularly attracted 250-500 students per term, some of them sons and daughters
of former students. As an academic advisor, he helped undergraduates chart
their way through the University, giving humane and personal counsel to each of
them. His contributions in these arenas were recognized by his receiving the
Class of 1923 Teaching Award in 1968 and the Ruth M. Sinclair Award for
student counseling in 1983. His service has enriched the University, and he has
enhanced its best traditions.
The Regents now salute this distinguished geographer for his dedicated
service by naming John F. Kolars professor emeritus of Near Eastern studies
and geography.
Martin L. Norton, M.D., professor of anesthesiology and associate professor of anesthesiology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, retired from
active faculty status on June 30, 1994, after a long and productive career as a
clinician, teacher, and researcher.
A native of New York, Dr. Norton received his B.S. degree from the College
of the City of New York in 1949, his M.S. degree from the University of North


16




July Meeting, 1994


Carolina in 1951, and his M.D. degree from New York Medical College in 1955.
Following internship and residency training in Pennsylvania, he held various
junior academic appointments in New York between 1959-65. In 1965, Dr.
Norton joined the faculty of the New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry.
In 1967, he was named associate professor of anesthesiology and adjunct
associate professor of law at Wayne State University in Detroit. In 1973, Dr.
Norton was appointed professor of anesthesiology at the Boston University Medical School. From 1973-80, he also held a consultancy in medicolegal education at
the University of San Diego Law School and undertook formal legal training,
receiving his J.D. degree from the Suffolk University School of Law, Boston, in
1979. Between 1980-82, Dr. Norton served on the faculties of the Case Western
Reserve University School of Medicine and the Cleveland Marshall School of Law
in Cleveland, Ohio.
Dr. Norton came to the University of Michigan as professor of anesthesiology in 1982, and in 1984, received a second appointment as associate
professor of anesthesiology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology. He was
admitted to the Michigan State Bar in 1983 and has also been admitted to the
bars of several U.S. district courts and to the U.S. Court of Appeals, Sixth
Circuit. In 1980, he was admitted to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court
and in 1984 to the Supreme Court of the United States. In 1987, Dr. Norton
co-founded the University of Michigan Medical Center Difficult Airway Clinic,
which received a commendation for health care innovation from the American
College of Physician Executives in 1992.  Dr. Norton also made major
contributions to the Towsley Center for Continuing Medical Education, where he
organized and taught courses on medical applications of laser physics and
management of the difficult airway. Dr. Norton's special expertise in both medicine and law has achieved national and international recognition. He has
lectured throughout the world and has published extensively in both the medical
and legal literature.
The Regents now salute this distinguished medical educator for his dedicated service by naming Martin L. Norton professor emeritus of anesthesiology
and associate professor emeritus of anesthesiology in the Department of
Otorhinolaryngologyo
Vincent C. O'Keeffe, associate professor of music at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a distinguished career as a teacher, scholar, conductor, performer, and campus leader.
Professor O'Keeffe received his B.Mus. degree from Boston University in
1950 and his AM. and Ed.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1951 and
1969, respectively. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint as
an assistant professor in 1975 and was promoted to associate professor, with tenure, in 1980.
Professor O'Keeffe's outstanding teaching ability was manifested by the
large number of students who elected to take his courses. He played saxophone
and clarinet for most of his years at Flint, and was a member of the nationally
recognized professional ensemble, "The New Reformation Dixieland Band." He
also conducted the Jazz Ensemble and developed the entire music theory
curriculum.


17




July Meeting, 1994


Professor O'Keeffe has published in a broad range of music periodicals and
has arranged music for Dixieland bands and orchestras which has been performed throughout Michigan and in other states. He has served on numerous
University committees and has provided numerous workshops and instrument
clinics for Flint area high schools.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service and many accomplishments by naming Vincent C. O'Keeffe associate professor emeritus of music.
Frank E. Rose, associate professor of physics at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after an outstanding career as a teacher and campus leader.
Professor Rose received his B.S. degree from Greenville College in 1949, his
AM. degree from the University of Michigan in 1957, and his Ph.D. degree from
Cornell University in 1965. He joined the faculty of the University of MichiganFlint as a lecturer in 1963 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1964 and
associate professor, with tenure, in 1968.
Professor Rose developed the astronomy program and has been its mainstay
for many years. He has contributed greatly to students' academic, intellectual,
and personal development. Professor Rose has also served his department and
the campus in a wide variety of ways, including service as secretary pro tern of
the UM-Flint faculty during an important reorganization period. He has also
made significant contributions to the numerous professional societies with which
he is affiliated.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Frank E. Rose associate professor emeritus of physics.
Charles T. Weber, associate professor of economics at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a distinguished career as a teacher, scholar, and campus leader.
Professor Weber received his B.B.A degree from the University of New
Mexico in 1951 and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees from Wayne State University in
1972 and 1977, respectively. He joined the faculty of the University of MichiganFlint as an assistant professor in 1978 and was promoted to associate professor,
with tenure, in 1984.
A dedicated teacher, Professor Weber's expertise ranges from introductory
economics to graduate seminars in public policy. He was instrumental in the
development of the Master of Public Administration program, which grew in
stature and strength under his leadership as its director during 1989-92.
Professor Weber's major research interests are in the areas of urban economics and labor economics, and his contributions have been particularly strong
in the area of applied research. He has provided important campus leadership by
serving as chair of the Department of Economics, on the faculty assembly, and
on numerous University-wide committees.
The Regents now salute this outstanding faculty member for his dedicated
service and many accomplishments by naming Charles T. Weber associate professor emeritus of economics.


18




July Meeting, 1994


Vincent G. Zannoni, professor of pharmacology in the Medical School and
professor of environmental and industrial health in the School of Public Health,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1994.
A native of New York City, Professor Zannoni earned his B.S. degree in
1951 at the College of the City of New York, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees, in
1956 and 1959, respectively, at George Washington University. From 1954-63,
he conducted research at the National Institutes of Health, and in 1963, he
joined the faculty of New York University Medical School in the pharmacology
department. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1974 as a
professor of pharmacology.
While working at the N.I.H., Professor Zannoni made several major contributions in the analysis of the hereditary enzymatic deficiencies underlying the
metabolic disorders of phenylketonuria, alcaptonuria, and histidinemia. He also
discovered a new polyphenol oxidase which seems to be involved in the formation
and deposition of an abnormal pigment in the connective tissues of alcaptonuric
patients.  Professor Zannoni's later research, which was internationally
recognized, focused on the role of vitamin C in drug metabolism. He developed a
chemical method which is still the best available to measure the content of
vitamin C in biological tissues, and his group showed how this vitamin is
involved in the metabolism of alcohol (ethanol) in man. He is currently conducting important, ongoing investigations on the protective effects of vitamin C
against the types of cancer produced by environmental chemicals.
Within the Department of Pharmacology, Professor Zannoni spent many
years directing the graduate program in pharmacology. He was recognized as an
excellent teacher, whose lectures were known for their clarity, superb
organization, and humor. Professor Zannoni has always taken great pride in the
development and accomplishments of his graduate students, many of whom are
now conducting research in the pharmaceutical industry and in academia.
Professor Zannoni enjoys an international reputation as a productive
scientist, a devoted and caring teacher, and a distinguished editor, who has
brought credit to the Department of Pharmacology and the University of
Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and noted scientist by
naming Vincent G. Zannoni professor emeritus of pharmacology.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Whittaker submitted the final degree lists for the April,
May, and June, 1994 commencements, the August 1994 Doctoral Degree List,
and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by
Regent Waters, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Real Estate Policy
Executive Vice President Womack submitted an item for information that
clarified some issues regarding the University's real estate policy that had been
raised at the November 1993 meeting. Complete details are contained in the
Regents Communication.


19




July Meeting, 1994


Real Estate Investment (Hearthstone Multi-State Homebuilding Partners, L.P.)
Regent Baker moved approval of the commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment Fund to Hearthstone Multi-State Homebuilding Partners,
L.P., pending the general counsel's review of the partnership agreement for legal
acceptability. He also asked to receive a copy of the partnership agreement to
review. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved on a vote of
7-0-1. Regent Deitch abstained from voting due to a conflict of interest.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Support Services Facility
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the budget for the UM-Dearborn Campus Support Services facility and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, provided the project is within budget.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Environmental Interpretive Center
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for construction of an Environmental Interpretive Center at the UM-Dearborn and appointment of Luckenbach/Ziegelman and
Partners, Inc., as architects.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Museum of Art
Vice President Womack called on Mr. Frederick Mayer, university planner,
to give a presentation on the proposed design of the University of MichiganDearborn Museum of Art. Mr. Mayer displayed maps and diagrams indicating
the location of the museum site and the placement of the building on the site, as
well as a floor-by-floor plan of the building and an architectural model.
Following some discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the design, as
presented, for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Museum of Art. Regent
Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Power announced that he had to leave the meeting at this point
(3:35 p.m.), and that he wanted to go on record as being in support of the proposed 1994-95 operating budget.
UM Hospitals East Medical Campus Project
Regent Brown moved authorization for the appointment of Albert Kahn
Associates, Inc., as the architect for the East Medical Campus concept design, as
well as the specific designs of the facilities that will be sited there in the first
phases of development. Regent Vamer seconded the motion.
Vice President Womack responded to concerns expressed by Regent Baker
about coordination between the architect and the firm that will be preparing the
site plan for the property. Executive Vice President Womack noted that Johnson
Johnson & Roy/Inc. had been retained to design the site plan, and that JJR and


20




July Meeting, 1994


Albert Kahn Associates would be working closely together. The vote was then
taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: 1) Upgrades and additions to the
University's electrical distribution system; 2) School of Education gymnasium
renovation and mezzanine floor addition; 3) Installation of a third chiller in central chiller plant; and 4) University of Michigan Hospitals Human Applications
Laboratory renovations,
Issuance of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds, Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, and Medical Service Plan
Refunding Bonds
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the University
currently has an opportunity to exercise the option of an interest rate swap,
which could result in a savings to the University of at least 55 basis points when
compared to conventional fixed rate debt (which equals a present value savings of
$3.6 million for a $50 million, thirty-year bond).
Executive Vice President Womack called on Treasurer Norman Herbert,
who gave a detailed description of how interest rate swap transactions work and
how such transactions would apply to the University's debt. He and Executive
Vice President Womack then responded to further questions from the Regents
about interest rate swap transactions.
Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (Walter J. Loesche, D.M.D., Ph.D.)
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a reassignment agreement between the
University of Michigan and Walter J. Loesche, D.M.D., Ph.D.      Because Dr.
Loesche is both a party to the agreement and a University employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Walter J. Loesche,
D.M.D., Ph.D.
2.   Terms of the contract include payment to the University of 20 percent of total
consideration received by Dr. Loesche; no use of University facilities or services;
Dr. Loesche assumes all University responsibility toward Salam A. Syed with
respect to royalty distribution; and the University maintains its responsibility
towards Barbara E. Laughton with respect to royalty distribution.
3.   Dr. Loesche's pecuniary interest arises from his right to receive royalties when
this technology is licensed. This is in lieu of participation in the sharing of
royalties received by the University in accordance with University policy.
The meeting then recessed to hear Public Comments.


21




July Meeting, 1994


Public Comments
The Regents assembled in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union and
heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Aaron
Williams, citizen, on the proposed tuition increase and on the Textbook Reporting Service; and Julie A Neenan, president of MSA, on the proposed tuition
increase.
The Regents then returned to the Regents Room at 4:15 p.m. to complete
the business portion of the meeting.
Eisenhower Corporate Park West
Executive Vice President Womack presented the request for purchase of Eisenhower Corporate Park West, a research/office facility at the northwest corner
of South Industrial Boulevard and Eisenhower Parkway, and distributed a separate map showing its location.  Regent McFee moved that the University
purchase Eisenhower Corporate Park West at a price of $7.65 million. Regent
Varner seconded the motion.
Executive Vice President Womack responded to questions about the proposed use of the facility. Regent Baker commented that the price for the building seemed excessive and that access to the building was difficult. There being
no further discussion the vote was then taken and the motion to purchase Eisenhower Corporate Park West was approved on a vote of 6-1, with Regents Brown,
Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Baker
opposed.
Loan Guaranty for the Industrial Technology Institute
Vice President Womack reviewed the history of the University's affiliation
with the Industrial Technology Institute (ITI), noting that ITI owns the building
situated on University-owned land on North Campus. He reported that in 1992
ITI had borrowed $4.36 million in operating financing from Comerica Bank, and
now it needs to borrow additional funds because of a shortfall in expected revenues. However, Comerica Bank is not willing to make an additional loan without a guaranty for the total amount of credit (not to exceed $6.5 million) it has
extended to ITI. The Michigan Strategic Fund (MSF) is willing to provide such a
guaranty. If ITI were to default on its debt after a six-month period, MSF could
foreclose on the mortgage and take possession of ITI's building, but could not
lease or sell the building without the University's prior written approval. To
obtain MSF's guarantee, the University needs to agree to waive its right, in the
event of default, to terminate the lease with ITI. This is a request for approval in
advance of MSF as assignee of the bank with respect to the credit facility and
assignee of ITI for lease purposes. However, the University would have the right
of first refusal to purchase the building if MSF, as assignee under the lease, were
to sell the building.
There followed extensive discussion about this proposal, with several
Regents expressing concerns about the terms of the proposed lease agreement
and the role and intentions of MSF. Regent Baker commented that ITI had


22




July Meeting, 1994


never been a successful enterprise and that he believed the proposed agreement
should be renegotiated so that the University would own the land and the building. At the end of the discussion, it was decided to table the item pending further
negotiations with the Michigan Strategic Fund. Regent McGowan did not participate in the discussion because of a conflict of interest.
Helicopter Hangar, Ann Arbor Airport
Regent Baker moved that the University enter into a 20-year paid-up lease
for 10,000 square feet of space in a helicopter hangar facility to be constructed by
Bijan, Inc. at the Ann Arbor Airport, in accordance with the terms described in
the Regents Communication. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
In Vice President Hartford's absence, Dean of Students Royster Harper
responded to questions about the statistics contained in the quarterly summary
of judicial activity under the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
Bachelor of Arts Degree in Communication at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the creation of a new degree program, "Bachelor of Arts
Degree in Communication," to be offered by the College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, in collaboration with Henry
Ford Community College.
Change in Name of Office of Professional and Continuing Education
(PACE) at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
The Regents were informed that the Office of Professional and Continuing
Education at the University of Michigan-Dearborn had changed its name to the
Center for Corporate and Professional Development (CCPD).
1994-95 Student Fee Rates, UM-Ann Arbor, UM-Dearborn, UM-Flint
Regent Deitch moved approval of the 1994 student fee rates for all three
campuses, as described in the respective Regents Communications. Regent
Varner seconded the motion. Regent Baker requested that in the future, the
infrastructure fee appear with the student fee rate request. The vote was then
taken, and the motion to approve the 1994 student fee rates for all three campuses was approved unanimously.
1994-95 General Fund Operating Budgets, UM-Ann Arbor, UMDearborn, UM-Flint
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1994-95 General Fund operating budgets for all three
campuses.


23




July Meeting, 1994


1994-95 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1994-95 revenue and expenditure operating budgets
for all three campuses, as described in the Regents Communication.
1994-95 Fee Assessment for Student Legal Services
Executive Vice President Womack explained that this is a recommendation
to continue the 1993-94 fee of $3.93 per student per term for Student Legal Services (SLS) until discussions can be completed with the Law School regarding
supervision of SLS. Regent McFee moved continuation of the separate Student
Legal Services fee at the 1993-94 rate of $3.93 per student per term until a final
decision is made regarding the supervision of SLS. Regent McFee seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Interim Chancellor Kugler
President Duderstadt praised Chancellor Kugler for the wise leadership he
had provided the Flint campus since assuming the position of interim chancellor
in January 1994 and expressed appreciation on behalf of the Board. There followed a round of applause.
Adjournment
There being no firther business, the meeting was adjourned at about 5:00
p.m. The next meeting will be held on September 19 and 20, 1994. Regents' expenses for the month of June 1994 totalled $1,043.37.
Harold R. Johnson
Interim Secretary of the University


24




SPECIAL MEETING, JULY 26, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Tuesday, July 26, 1994
The Regents met at 11:45 a.m. by telephone conference call in Room 4014 of
the Fleming Administration Building. Present were President Duderstadt and
Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Waters. Also
present were Executive Vice President Womack, General Counsel Cole, and
Treasurer and Investment Officer Herbert.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order.
Executive Session Motion
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents voted unanimously to meet in closed session as permitted by
section 8(h) of Public Act 1976, Noo 276, to discuss a written opinion
of counsel.
Regent Varner joined the closed session of the meeting at 12:05 p.m.
The Regents met in open session immediately following the closed session of
the meeting.
Loan Guarantee for the Industrial Technology Institute
Regent Brown moved that the executive vice president and chief financial
officer be authorized to approve the required modifications to the lease agreement needed to obtain the Michigan Strategic Fund's guaranty of the Industrial
Technology Institute's debt obligations, provided those revisions apply only to
the proposed loan addition and to the previously approved credit facility established with Comerica Bank. Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was
approved by a vote of 6-1-1, with Regent Baker opposing, and Regent McGowan
abstaining due to a conflict of interest.
Adjournment
There being no firther business, the meeting was adjourned.


Harold R. Johns>a
Interim Secretary of the University


25




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Monday, September 19, 1994
The Regents met at 9:00 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Secretary Johnson was also present, as were Interim Vice
President Kinnear and Associate Vice President Holbrook (in the place of
Provost Whitaker). Executive Vice President Womack, Provost Whitaker, Vice
Presidents Harrison, Hartford, and Neal, and Chancellors Nelms and Renick
were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
McFee, who made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Sections 8(a), 8(e), and 8(h) of the Open Meetings
Act, as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents
meet in closed session on September 19, 1994, for the following
purposes: 1) to consider periodic personnel evaluations of employees
who have requested confidentiality [Sec. 8(a)]; 2) to consult with our
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation [Sec. 8(e)]; and 3) to consider material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent McGowan noted that five Regents had requested that a proposed
amendment to Regents Bylaw 1.14 be on the agenda and that this had not been
included in their agenda materials. President Duderstadt responded that this
proposal would be discussed with the other business items following the closed
session. The meeting then continued in executive session.
The meeting resumed in public session at 1:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters. Secretary Johnson was also present, as
were Executive Vice President Womack, Interim Vice President Kinnear, Vice
Presidents Harrison and Hartford, and Chancellors Nelms and Renick. Provost
Whitaker and Vice President Neal were absent; Associate Vice Presidents Robert
Holbrook and Steven Kunkel, respectively, attended in their stead.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1993-94
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Chancellor
Nelms and Vice President Kinnear to their first Regents' meeting. He then called
on Executive Vice President Womack, who called the Regents' attention to the


27




September Meeting, 1994


paragraph on the Report of Independent Auditors, dated August 17, 1994, that
states:
"In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
University of Michigan at June 30, 1994, and the changes in fund
balances and the current funds revenues, expenditures, and transfers
for the year then ended in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles."
He noted that the independent auditors would be present at the October
meeting to respond to any questions the Regents might have about the audit. He
then called on Associate Vice President Chandler Matthews, who introduced Mr.
Robert Moenart, controller and director of financial operations, to present the
year-end financial informationo
Year-End Financial Information for 1993-94
Mr. Moenart gave a presentation which illustrated comparative expenditures and revenues in current funds and general funds between 1984-85 and
1993-94. During that period, total revenue for current funds educational and
general components, (comprised of General, Designated, and ExpendableRestricted Funds) has increased from $579 million to $1,222 million, while total
expenditures have increased from $576 million to $1,213 million. Excluding the
Auxiliary Activities category, salaries and wages expenditures have decreased
from 52 percent of the total to 46 percent, while staff benefits have increased
from 11 percent to 14 percent of the total and scholarships and fellowships have
increased from 7 percent to 9 percent. Auxiliary Activities expenditures have
increased from almost $400 million to nearly $1,100 million.
In 1984-85, 50 percent of General Funds revenues was derived from state
appropriations and 42 percent from student fees, whereas these proportions
changed to 39 percent and 51 percent, respectively, in 1993-94. Total General
Funds revenues during that period increased from $375 million to $759 milion.,
while total expenditures and transfers increased from $371 million to $758
million. During that period, the proportion of the General Funds expended on
salaries and wages decreased from 56 percent to 48 percent, while supplies and
scholarship/fellowship expenditure percentages increased by 3 points each and
utilities decreased by 3 points. With the exception of scholarship/fellowship and
supplies categories, most expenditures have held fairly steady over the past few
years when adjusted for inflation.
Following the presentation, Mr. Moenart responded to questions from the
Regents and thanked members of his staff who had helped prepare the presentation materials. Then, there being no further discussion, Regent Baker moved
adoption of the Annual Financial Statements for 1993-94. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. Regents Deitch, McGowan,
and Power were away from the table when the vote was taken.


28




September Meeting, 1994


Investments
Executive Vice President submitted a set of materials entitled "The University's Investments at June 30, 1994," which includes reports on the University's
invested funds, reports on proxy voting during 1993-94 and funds in trust, and
the June 30, 1994 Schedule of Investments.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the July 14, 1994, regular meeting and the
July 26, 1994, special meeting. Regents Deitch, McGowan, and Power were away
from the table when the vote was taken.
Consent Agenda
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. Regarding the
Investment Report, Executive Vice President Womack commented that this is
the first report in which the total value of the University's endowment has
exceeded $1 billion. He noted that the fundraising efforts of many individuals,
including people in development offices and deans' offices across the University,
have contributed       to the achievement of this milestone.
With respect to the Plant Extension Report, Regent Baker requested that
the Regents be permitted to review         plans for the UM      Hospitals East Medical
Campus Project at an early stage. Executive Vice President Womack responded
that as soon as some preliminary work was completed, he would submit it for
review by the Regents.
Associate Vice President Kunkel submitted reports of projects established
for the period July 1 through August 31, 1994 and summaries of a selection of
current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of voluntary support for the months of June, July, and August, 1994, and the summary
report for fiscal year 1993-94. He also summarized the current status of the capital campaign, noting that the total amount pledged to date was at 67 percent of
the goal
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Business Administration
and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................47,500
AT&T, Orlando, Florida
for the International Business Program in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n......................................................................................................................................................................................6,0 0 0
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...............................................................................................................................................gifts....13,635
Abigail Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  th e  R ob ert  H. L u rie   F u n d............................................................................................................................................. 100,000
Advacare, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the  C. S. M ott Children's H ospital Golf Classic Benefit........................................................................... 10,000
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute and for the Comprehensive Studies Program in the College of
L iterature,  Science,  and   the   A rts....................................................................................................................................... 12,500


29




September Meeting, 1994


Allstate Insurance Company, Hudson, Ohio
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n..................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Robert & Marjorie Alpern Foundation, Birmingham
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science,
an d    th e   A rts...............................................................................................................2 0 0 00.......................................................................... 0 0 0
American Academy of Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery Foundation,
Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School...........................0..............5,00
American Association of Spinal Cord Injury Psychologists and Social Workers,
Jackson Heights, New York
for  research       in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 25,000
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute........................................258000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the College of Pharmacy, and the Biophysics Research Division...................................143,451
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the
M  edical   S ch oo  l..........................................................................................................26 090...................................................................... 2 6 0 9 0
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy.........................................................................................................................5,000
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for  em  ployee      m atchin  g    gifts.....................................................................................................................................................5,650
American Federation for Aging Research, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..............................................................................................   113,000
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy.............................................................67,280
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for  research       in   the   M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 20,980
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research       in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 19,384
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration................................................................................ 600,000
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Transportation Research Institute..................................................................................... 18,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.......................................................................................................................................................7,790
Ameritech Illinois, Chicago, Illinois
for  em  ployee      m atch  in g   gifts......................................................................................................................................................5,650
Ameritech Michigan, Detroit
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Business Administration
and the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................................................................................................................20,000
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for the Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the College of
E n g in e e rin g......................................................................................................................................................................................... 5 0,0 0 0
Anonymous Donor
for  the    U niversity     M u sical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Children's Center in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies.000............................................................................................................................................................................ 12,000
Aramco Services Company, Houston, Texas
for outreach programs in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e    A r t s.......................................................................................................................................................................................................5, 0 00
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering.......................................................................................5,000
Arkwright Foundation, Inc., Waltham, Massachusetts
for    em p loy ee    m atch in g   gift s..................................................................................................................................................... 5,000
John M. Armstrong, Ann Arbor
for the Mellon Foundation Matching Grant Fund in the College of
L iteratu   re, S  cience, an    d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts..............................................................................................................................................................00........................2 4 5 0 0
Ashland Oil, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
In stitu  t e....................................................................................................................................................................................................7,5 0 0


30




September Meeting, 1994


Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C.
for physical stress research in the College of Engineering.............................................................................30000
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
for unrestricted capital support in the Law                  School..............................................................................5, 000
Bradford F. Barr Estate
for    traffi c   plan n in g   research..................................................................................................................................................20,000
Bell-Northern Research, Ltd., Ottawa, Ontario
for bipolar transistors research in the College of Engineering...............................................                25,000
Benjamin Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for  th e   R obert  H.  L u rie   F u n d............................................................................................................................................ 100,000
Berlex Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................................................................................................45,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for unrestricted       support of the Medical School..........................................................................................................5,000
Margaret G. Bertsch, Grand Rapids
for  support     in   the   M edical  School............................................................................................................................   5,000
Ira Rae Bevens Trust
for  the  Ira    R ae  B evens   Fund...................................................................................................................................................5,000
Brian L. Bilzin, Miami, Florida
for the Bilzin Student Travel Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts........................................0                                                                    00.....................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Guido A. & Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Fund in the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning and for support of the University Musical Society........................................................8,000
Frances Willison Bishop Trust
4,320 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Dr. Clayton & Emma
Elizabeth Willison Fund in the Medical School....................................................................................................227,503
Alan J. Blair Estate
for   th e   A lan   J.  B lair   F u n d............................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Mitchell Bleznak, Farmington Hills
for  research      in   th e  M edical  S chool........................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Richard L. Boger, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
Robert Bonczyk, Northville
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Annual Fund......................................................................................5,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
In stitu  te......................................................................................................................................................................................................7,5 0 0
David A. Brandon, Livonia
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................20,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for  the    U niversity     M u sical  S ociety........................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Richard F. Bristor Trust
for the Richard F. Bristor Chemical Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering..........24,540
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Program         in British Studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........11,824
Robert and Susan Brown Fund, Kalamazoo
for the Southwest Michigan Invitational Scholarship Fund..........................................9.................................9,872
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for population planning research in the School of Public Health.............................................................35,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Durham, North Carolina
for research in the College of Pharmacy.......................................................................................................................60,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
1,000 shares of Mattel, Inc., common stock for international business faculty
support in the School of Business Administration and for economics support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................................................25,938
Camp International, Inc., Jackson
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................7,500
Mary Lincoln Campbell, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
John Carver, Brighton
for the Hill Auditorium           Restoration Fund...................................................................................................................5,000
Chamber Music America, Inc., New York, New York
for  the    U niversity     M u sical  Society....................................................................................................................................... 5,000
B. Francis Chamberlain, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships and for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................5,364


31




September Meeting, 1994


Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada Group, General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship Program................................................................................................7,000
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, Concord, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
M  edia     in   the   C ollege   of   E ngineering................................................................................................................................ 18,500
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for automotive research in the Transportation Research Institute....................................................... 10,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, for Naval Architecture Scholarships in the College of
Engineering, and for employee matching gifts.......................................................................................................14,190
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Searle Scholars Program in Biological Chemistry and research in the
M  edical   S chool...........30.........................................................................................................................................................................30,000
Children's Benefit Fund, Inc., Rochelle Park, New Jersey
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund........................... 100,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the Ni and Hu Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering and
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................................395,000
Chubb & Son, Inc., Warren, New Jersey
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n......................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Citicorp-Citibank, New York, New York
for    em ployee     m atch in g   gifts..................................................................................................................................................  12,154
Clarcor Foundation, Rockford, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law                School...................................................................................................................5,000
Elizabeth B. Clark, Sun City, Arizona
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning
R e so u rce   C e n te r...................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Lawrence G. Clayton, Vero Beach, Florida
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................................................5,000
Cline, Davis & Mann, Inc., New York, New York
for  research       in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Katharine K. Colwell, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning
R esou   rce   C enter................5,000..................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for    em ployee     m atch in g   gifts................................................................................................................................................... 11,189
James William Commane Estate
for the James William Commane Scholarship Endowment in the
L a w    S ch o o l.............................................................................................................................................................................................  2 6,1 6 6
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................27,000
Graham H. Conger Estate
for the Julia Henning Conger Memorial in the Alumni Association and
for  the   R alph    G. C onger   Scholarship............................................................................................................................ 500,000
L. Thomas Conlin, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..................................................................5,000
David S. Cooper Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for Tennis Facilities in the Department of Athletics..........................................................................................30,000
Cooper Industries, Wagner Lighting Division, Chesterfield, Missouri
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................ 15,000
Corporate Jets, Inc., West Mifflin, Pennsylvania
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..............................................................................5,000
Alice S. and Allen F. Corey Trust, Altadena, California
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Eleanor Mina Coulter, Midland
216 shares of William Wrigley, Jr., Company common stock for the Eleanor
C oulter    D onor   P ooled     Incom  e  Fund................................................................................................................................. 10,881
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity      M u sical  Society.................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Cummins Engine Foundation, Columbus, Indiana
for the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for unrestricted support in the School of Business Administration.........................................................5,000


32




September Meeting, 1994


DSM CoPolymer, Baton Rouge, Louisiana
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for  the  A lbert  C. D am es  M em orial Scholarship..........................................................................................................5,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Robert A. Darr, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..s.............................................,000
Charles E. Dart Trust, Newport News, Virginia
for  the   C ollege   of  E ngin eering..................................................................................................................................................5,000
Anatole S. Dekaben, Coupeville, Washington
for the Dr. Anatole S. and Pamela D. Dekaben Fund in the College of Engineering...............15,000
Dekalb Energy Foundation, Denver, Colorado
for the Bruce P. Bickner Endowed Scholarship in the Law School..................................................5,000
Deloitte & Touche, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
DePuy Division of Boehringer Mannheim Diagnostics, Warsaw, Indiana
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School..............................15,000
Andrew G. DeRocco, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Horace H. Rackham         School of Graduate Studies.................................5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit and for the Associates
Program      in  the  School of Business  Adm   inistration............................................................................................ 10,000
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for communication workshops in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................28,756
Detroit Red Wings Alumni Association, West Bloomfield
for   th e   M ed ical  S ch ool.....................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration......................................5,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Novi
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Program in the College of
Engineering and for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
R e sea rch   In stitu te........................................................................................................................................................................... 12,5 0 0
John S. Dobson, Ann Arbor
ten shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock for the John S. Dobson Donor
Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of Hill Auditorium and the Medical
Robert J. Donia, Fort Worth, Texas
for the Institute of Public Policy Studies Internship Program......................................................................5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for chemical sciences facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................250,000
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for  em ployee    m atchin g   gifts...................................................................................................................................................24,705
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research and for the Russian
Project  in   the  B entley  H istorical  L ibrary.....................................................................................................................19,800
William G. Earle, Miami, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for support in the School of Information and Library Studies...................................................................25,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute
and for the Associates Program and other support in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 5,0 0 0
Engineering Foundation, United Engineers Trustees, Inc., New York, New York
for  aerospace   research   in  the  College  of Engineering...........................................................................................5,750
Environmental Quality Company, Ypsilanti
for Botanical Gardens support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................5,000
Ernst & Young, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.........................5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for  em ployee    m atch in g   gifts....................................................................................................................................................90,780
FPL Group Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for   em p loy ee   m atch in g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 10,100


33




September Meeting, 1994


Bella Falk, Beverly Hills, California
1,246 shares of Trinova Corporation and 123 shares of Amoco Corporation
common stocks for the School of Education and for the Humanities Challenge
Grant in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................................51,645
Oscar H. Feldman, Detroit
4,000 shares of Optical Imaging Systems common stock for the William Davidson
Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................................................................................19,750
Chuck Fisher, East Lansing
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..............................................................25,000
Robert G. Fiske, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of MichiganD e a rb o rn....................................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Benson Ford, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of MichiganD e a r b o rn....................................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the Schools of Business Administration and
Medicine, the College of Engineering, the Transportation Research Institute, and
the  U  niversity    of  M ichigan-D  earborn........................................................................................................................... 146,111
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for minority fellowships in the Institute of Public Policy Studies............................................................20,000
Ford Motor Company Powertrain Operations, Dearborn
for engine performance modeling research in the College of Engineering.......................................75,000
Ford Motor Company Scientific Research Labs, Dearborn
for materials science research in the College of Engineering......................................................................50,000
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for  the  H ill A uditorium      R estoration    Fund.....................................................................................................................5,000
Herman Frasch Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for  research     in   the  College  of  Pharm  acy...................................................................................................................... 12,750
Harry L. Freeman, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Sumner and Laura Foster Library Fund in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  a n d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Arthur M. Friedman, Palos Verdes Estates, California
for the Arthur Andersen Faculty Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.........5,000
Ronald J. Friedsam, Cincinnati, Ohio
for unrestricted support in the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
GE Financial Services Operations, Schenectady, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Sharon A. Galley, Clarkston
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................5,000
Benton E. Gates, Sr. Estate
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...............................................10,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for   em ployee    m atchin g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,10 0
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for Scholarships for Minorities and Females in the College of Engineering and for
em  p loy ee   m atch in g   gift s.............................................................................................................................................................2 5,5 15
General Systems Consulting Group, Ann Arbor
for the George S. Odiorne Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........................5,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Arthur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in the School of Music.........................................72,823
Ralph J. Gerson, Bloomfield Hills
for the William      Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.....................5,000
Richard C. Gerstenberg, Bloomfield Hills
230 shares of Marsh & McLennan common stock for scholarships in the School of
B u sin ess   A dm in istration............................................................................................................................................................ 19,8 3 8
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for  research     in   the  M edical  Sch ool..................................................................................................................................... 17,500
Allan D. Gilmour, Dearborn
for the Allan D. Gilmour Doctoral Fellowship in the School of Business Administration....20,000
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for  support    in   the  College  of  E ngineering......................................................................................................................5,000
Helen Glauber Estate
for the WUOM/WVGR Matching Grant Fund......................................................................................................... 10,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Pharmacy..........................................................................................................................5,900


34




September Meeting, 1994


Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for  unrestricted     support    of  the  Law   School...................................................................................................................5,000
Paul Goebel Group, Grand Rapids
for Tennis Facilities in the Department of Athletics.............................................................................................6,000
Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law            School...................................................................................................................5,000
Gornick Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Humanities Challenge Grant, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........5.........5,000
Grand Lodge F.& A.M. of Michigan, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Art and the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............5,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education, the Institute for Social Research, and the
Center for Human Growth and Development..........................................................................................................90,934
Grayling Fund, Detroit
for  the   U niversity    M usical  S ociety.....................................................................................................................................50,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Kalvin and Eileen Grove Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............................100,000
Grunday Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for  support    in  the  D epartm   ent  of A thletics.................................................................................................................5,000
Henry Guralnick, Melrose Park, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Medical School......................5,000
HBO & Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..............................................................................5,000
Beverly L. Hamilton, Marina del Rey, California
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................5,000
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for the A. James French Lectureship, the Simpson Memorial Institute, and other
su pp ort  in   th e   M edical  S ch ool...................................................................................................................................................5,000
James J. Harbaugh, Deerfield, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................5,000
HarperCollins Publishers, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................1 2,0 0 0
J. Ira & Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School..........................................................5,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts.............................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Hewlett-Packard Company, Farmington Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.............................................................. 10,000
Sarah A. High Trust, Clearwater, Florida
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering.......................................................................................5,000
Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the College of Engineering and for the Hill Auditorium                   Restoration Fund...............................5,000
Honigman Foundation, Inc., Southfield
for  capital  support    in   the   L aw   School..............................................................................................................................79,133
Robert L. & Judith S. Hooker Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration.......5,000
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering.......................................................................................5,000
Daniel F. Hopp, St. Joseph
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................................5,000
Howmedica, Inc., Rutherford, New Jersey
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................7,500
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for  unrestricted     support   of the   Law     School..................................................................................................................5,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for  em ployee     m atch in g   gifts................................................................................................................................................... 1 1,550
Anne M. Hughes, Richmond, Virginia
for the Arline McGrath Fontaine Memorial Fund in the School of Nursing......................................5,000
James W. Hyde, Paris, Kentucky
for the Class of 1904 Scholarship in the Law               School.............................................................................................5,000
Hyundai America Technical Center, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Korean Studies Professorship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts..........................:                                                                        000..................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0


35




September Meeting, 1994


IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering.................................................................................................................50,000
ISODE Consortium, Austin, Texas
for  the  R esearch   System  s  G ift   Fund..............................................................................................................................25,000
Ida Iacobucci, St. Clair Shores
for the Eye Center in the Medical School..........5................................5,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for rearview    mirror research and human factors research in the Transportation
R e sea rch   In stitu te...........................................................................................................................................................................4 2,5 0 0
Intel Corporation, Oregon Division, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research and other support in the College of Engineering.................................................................40,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for Scholarships for Minorities and Females in the College of Engineering and for
em  ployee    m atch in g   gifts........................................................................................................................................................ 2 2,4 50
International Business Machines Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit and for the Industrial
Partners of Computer Science Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................10,000
Fred E. Ittner, Moraga, California
for the Edward Austin Jones Memorial Fund in the School of Business Administration.......5,000
Marc Jacobson, Norfolk, Virginia
for the Marc and Constance Jacobson Lectureship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Thomas S. Jerome Lectureship Fund
for the Thomas S. Jerome Lecture and Publication Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
S ch ool   of   G ra du ate   S tu d ies.........................................................................................................................................................6, 000
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Racine, Wisconsin
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering...................................................................................... 10,000
Clarice C. Jones Trust
for the Clair and Clarice Platt Endowment in the Medical School and for the
Eleanor Cranefield Endowment in the School of Social Work................................................................. 126,050
KL Spring & Stamping Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
KPMG Peat Marwick, New York, New York
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...........................................................................10,000
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Rosemont, Illinois
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.......................................................5,000
Sally Katzen, Washington, D.C.
for  unrestricted   support   of  the  Law    School...................................................................................................................5,000
Stella Kaufman Trust, Ann Arbor
for  the  G eriatrics  Center  in  the  M edical School........................................................................................................5,000
John Harvey Kellogg, M.D. Estate
for the John Harvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School.......................................................15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the School of Information and Library Studies,
the School of Education, the Institute for Social Research, the Center for the
Education of Women, and the Office of the Vice President for Student Services....................969,037
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Romulus
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................7,500
Keycorp, Toledo, Ohio
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m in istratio n................................................................................................................................................................................... 12,0 0 0
Rosa Kingsbury Estate U.S. Savings Bonds
for the Rosa Kingsbury Endowment for Student Financial Aid.............................................................187,110
Knowell Periodontal Technologies, Inc., Toronto, Ontario
for  research    in   the  School  of  D entistry..........................................................................................................................75,000
Thomas J. Komar Estate
for  the  Thom  as  K om  ar  Student  A id  Fund.....................................................................................................................8,311
Roger C. Kormendi, Manchester
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.........................................................5,000
William M. Krips, Houston, Texas
400 shares of Sterling Chemicals and 200 shares of Royal Dutch Petroleum
common stocks and cash gift of $200 for support of the School of Education...............................25,000
Richard P. Kughn, Chesterfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................50,000
Francis B. Kulp, Jr., Ann Arbor
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the University Musical Society..........6,056


36




September Meeting, 1994


Kyoto Manufacturing Company, Kyoto, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute............................................... 15,000
LESCOA, Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute........................................     15,000
Laboratory for Education and Research in Neuroscience, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.................................. 19,885
John W. Lawrence, Richland
for the Teaching Excellence Fund in the School of Business Administration...................................5,000
Sara Lee Direct, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
for the Phyllis Ocker Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................................5,000
Ione Lemmen, Muskegon
100 shares of Gerber Products common stock and a cash gift of $5,000 for the
Crosby-K    ahn  Professorship     in  N eurosurgery...........................................................................................................10,131
James A. Leonard, Ann Arbor
for  the  Class  of  1972  Fund   in  the  M edical School....................................................................................................5,000
Leonard Philanthropic Fund of Jewish Communal Foundation New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................5,000
Norman J. & Marilyn Leven Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship.......................................................................................................5,000
Roger S. Lewis, Marshall, Texas
for the Class of 1945 Fund in the College of Engineering.................................................................................6,000
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................................................15,000
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School..................................................................................... 48,000
Life Trends, Vero Beach, Florida
for  research   in  the  Institute  for  Social Research...................................................................................................24,254
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for  em p loyee    m atch in g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 10,224
Katherine Ling Estate
for  the  K atherin  e  L ing   Scholarship...................................................................................................................................48,000
Louisiana Land and Exploration Company, New Orleans, Louisiana
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................5,000
Elizabeth Lucas Estate
for the Women's Health Initiative - Heart Research Fund in the Medical School........................7,332
Georges Lurcy Charitable and Educational Trust, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham                  School of Graduate
S tu dies.....................................................................................................................................................................................................  12,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity   M u sical  S ociety........................................................................................................................................5,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 13,750
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...........................................................................10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................27,812
Frederick Marcus, New York, New York
for the English Language and Literature Graduate Student Support, College of
L iteratu re,  Science,   an d   th e   A rts...........................................................................................................................................5,000
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School......................................................................   12,792
Charles K. Marquis, New York, New York
for  unrestricted      support  of  the   L aw   School...................................................................................................................5,000
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n.................................................................................................................................................................................. 10,0 0 0
Douglas C. McClintock, Northville
for the Arthur Andersen Faculty Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration and for support in the School of Art and the Department
o f   A th le tic s................................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
James V. McConnell Estate
for the James McConnell Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Charles E. McCormick, Pasadena, California
for  unrestricted     support  of the  Law     School...................................................................................................................5,000


37




September Meeting, 1994


William    L. McKinley, Fremont
100 shares of Gerber Products Company common stock for unrestricted
su p p o rt  of  th e   L aw   S chool.........................................................................................................................................................5,106
McLaren Regional Medical Center, Flint
for the Max Ronald Bernell Resident Fellowship Trust in the Medical School........................... 90,000
Pauline L. McMullen, Phoenix, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.........................................................5,000
James A. McNamara, Jr., Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Medtronic Hemotec, Inc., Englewood, Colorado
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 5,000
Jessie Wandel Menneken Estate
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Minority Graduate Student Fellowship in the Medical School..............................60,000
MichCon Foundation, Detroit
for  em ployee    m atching    gifts.............................................................................................,63.....................................................1 0,630
Michigan AIDS Foundation, Grand Haven
for research in the School of Public Health........8...................8,000
Michigan Center Auxiliary 3634, Jackson
for pediatric ophthalmology support in the Medical School.........................................................................26,000
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for  research     in   th e   M edical  S chool.....................................................................................................................................40,205
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit and for the University
Musical Society......................................................................................................................................................................................5Musical Society,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for research and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, School of Nursing, and College of Engineering.............................................. 163,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering and the Associates
Program     in the School of Business Administration.............................................................................................25,000
Mrs. John A. Mintz, Mansfield, Ohio
1,206 shares of Lydall Corporation common stock for the John A. Mintz Graduate
Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......................................................................................24,120
Mitsui Mutual Life Insurance Company, Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n................................................................................................................................................................................6 0 0,0 0 0
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for   em p loy ee   m atch in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................8,5 75
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for   th e   M u seu m   of   A rt....................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
James M. Mullendore, Jr., Gowen
for the Stanley S. Kemp Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology.........................................................5,000
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Township
for unrestricted support of the Schools of Art and Medicine.......................................................................... 5,000
NAC Reinsurance Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration....................5,000
NBD Bank, Detroit
for employee matching gifts......................................................................................................................................................9,975
NTGargiulo, Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for international business course support in the School of Business Administration................6,000
NYX/Rebmann Plastic Molding, Inc., Redford
for the Sikh Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................5,000
National Kidney Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health..........................................................................12,300
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for  research     in   th e  M edical  School......................................................................................................................................5,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research     in   the  M edical  School...................................................................................9...........3...................................93,540
Leonard M. Newman, Grand Rapids
for the Leonard and Eileen Newman Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts.............................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute....................7,500


38




September Meeting, 1994


Nissan Research and Development, Inc., Plymouth
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute...................................................5,000
Dale Noble, Lake Bluff, Illinois
3,000 shares of Key Corporation common stock for the Dale Noble Donor Pooled
Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Muriel H. W. Noble Dean's Merit
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................99,938
North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology,
Newton Upper Falls, Massachusetts
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.......................................................................................................................................7,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for  unrestricted   support   of  the  Law   School.................................................................................................................5,000
John J. O'Leary, Green Valley, Arizona
for the Study Abroad Program          in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................5,000
Ono Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy...................................................................................15,000
Orthopedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for  research    in   th e  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................49,428
Osteonics, Allendale, New Jersey
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................7,500
Otis Elevator, Farmington, Connecticut
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..............................................................................5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for mathematics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................50,000
Arnold 0. Pape Trust
for the Arnold and Gretchen Pape Research Endowment in Ophthalmology in the
M  e d ica l  S ch o o l.................................................................................................................................................................................2 6 7,7 4 0
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Foundation Funds in the Medical School..........................................................183,425
Donald H. Parsons, Birmingham
for  capital  support  in   the  L aw   School.................................................................................................................................5,000
Randolph C. Paschke, Ann Arbor
for the Arthur Andersen Minority Scholarship in the School of Business
Adm   inistration  and  for  the  D epartm  ent  of Athletics............................................................................................5,000
Perrin Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for the John Stephenson Perrin Chair in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2 4 0,0 0 0
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy..........................................................................6,500
Philips Display Components Company, Division of North American Philips, Ann Arbor
for  support  in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.......................................................................................................................7,500
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research    in   th e  M edical  S ch ool.....................................................................................................................................14,37 8
John C. and Thelma B. Post Estate
for  the  John   C. and  W ilm a  B. Post  Fund......................................................................................................................42,750
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the Eugene B. Power Junior Faculty Award in the School of Business
Administration, and for support in the School of Music..................................................................................53,000
C. K. Prahalad, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.........................................................5,000
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for  unrestricted   support   of  the  L aw   School...................................................................................................................5,000
Presser Foundation, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music............................................................................5,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the Schools of
B usiness  A dm  inistration    and  D entistry........................................................................................................................ 31,800
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Funds and other support in the School of Business
Administration, College of Engineering, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, Career Planning and Placement, and the President's Office..........................................................87,000
Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Norwich, New York
for biomechanic trauma and sports medicine research in the Medical School.................................7,500
Mrs. Millard H. Pryor, Jr., West Hartford, Connecticut
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................37,500
Millard H. Pryor, Jr., West Hartford, Connecticut
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................37,500


39




September Meeting, 1994


Pryor Foundation, West Hartford, Connecticut
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................37,500
Dorothy Pudrith, Winter Park, Florida
for the Geriatrics Center in the Medical Center.....................................................................................................24050
Herman R. and Dolores I. Rasch, Boyne City
200 shares of Gerber Products Company common stock for the Herman R. and
Dolores I. Rasch Scholarship in the College of Engineering.........................................................................10,213
Reader's Digest Foundation, Inc., Pleasantville, New                    York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism                   Scholarship in the College of
L iteratu  re,  Science,   and     th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................... 18,000
Donald V. Reardon, Menlo Park, California
for the Loyal Crew        Endowment in the College of Engineering.....................................................................5,000
Robert B. and Jacqueline K. Reese Trust
various securities and cash gift for the Robert B. and Jacqueline Krenzer Reese
Medical Student Loan Fund in the Medical School...........................................................................................843,191
Ralph E. Reins, Bloomfield Hills
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering................................... 10,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................85 000
Revlon, Inc., New York, New York
for the Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering......................................................................................................10,000
William B. Richards, Findlay, Ohio
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in the College
o f   E n g in e e rin g.......................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Robertson, Stephens & Company, San Francisco, California
for  the    U ndergraduate       Student   A  id.....................................................................................................................................5,000
Robomatix International, Inc., Wixom
for  research      in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.....................................................................................................................5,000
Dorothy A. Rock, Canton, Ohio
for   th e   A lu m n i  A ssociation..........................................................................................................................................................5,000
J. Speed Rogers, Jr., Brevard, North Carolina
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School......................................5,000
Robert V. Roosa, Harrison, New York
for the Robert V. Roosa Graduate Student Support Fund in the College of
L iteratu  re,  S cience,   an d   th e   A rts...........................................................................................................................................5,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Kettering, Ohio
for unrestricted support in the College of Engineering.......................................................................................5,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School...................................................................................... 12,000
Sanyo Securities Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 00
Schering-Plough Foundation, Madison, New Jersey
for    em p loy ee   m atch in g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 11,335
Milton J. Schloss, Cincinnati, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.............................................................................5,000
Madeleine C. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R. C. Schneider Neurosurgical Fund in the Medical School...........................................................5 000
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................8,000
Scripps Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for communications research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................156,675
Sequent Computer Systems, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the OLTP Multicomputer Research Fund in the College of Engineering....................................5,000
Shell Development Company Division of Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................15,000
Steven A. Shenfeld, Roslyn, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
for tomography research in the Medical School......................................................................................................20,000
James R. Sitlington III, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Elizabeth T. Sladek Estate
for  su pport   in   the   M edical  S chool..........................................................................................................................................5,000
Robert Sosnick, Bloomfield Hills
for the William       Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.....................5,000


40




September Meeting, 1994


Robert J. Stanczak, New Boston
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.............................................................................5,000
Standard Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering...................................................5,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................................15,000
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for biostatistics support in the School of Public Health......................................................................................5,000
Peter O. Steiner, Ann Arbor
for the Peter O. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Harold E. Stieg, Bloomfield Hills
for the Elmer C. and Louise A. Stieg Memorial Scholarship................................................ 50,000
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopedic Lecture and for biomechanic trauma and
sports medicine research in the Medical School.....................................................................................................13,500
Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Research Center, Osaka, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................................................................14,995
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity    M u sical  Society........................................................................................................................................5,000
TMP Associates, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit and for research in
th e   M e d ica l   S ch o o l..............................................................................................................................................................................7,0 0 0
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for  em ployee     m atch in g   gifts....................................................................................................................................................17,116
Taisho Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for  research     in   th e  M edical  S ch ool.....................................................................................................................................50,000
Tanabe Seiyaku Company, Osaka, Japan
for Geriatrics Center support in the Medical School........................................................................................182,317
Rufus S. and Joyce V. Teesdale, Grand Rapids
50,000 shares of X-Rite, Inc., common stock for the Rufus S. Teesdale
Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the Rufus S.
Teesdale Professorship in the College of Engineering................................................................................1,312,500
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for  em ployee     m atch in g   gifts......................................................................................................................................................ts7,350
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
Texaco Services, Inc., Bellaire, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
th e   C ollege   of  E n gin eerin g....................................................................................................................................................... 18,5 0 0
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust, Detroit
for the Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust Fund in the School of Social Work.....................................10,000
Lawrason D. Thomas, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Schools of Nursing and Business Administration and in the
C ollege    of  E n gin eerin g....................................................................................................................................................................5,0 00
Charles V. Thornton III, Los Angeles, California
for  unrestricted      support   of the  Law     School...................................................................................................................5,000
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Magazine Quality Dealer Award Fellowship in the School of
B u sin ess  A d m in istration...............................................................................................................................................................5,00 0
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for optical sciences research in the College of Engineering...........................................................................25,499
Trenton Fire Department, Trenton
for burn research and education in the Medical School.................................................................................... 16,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000
Robert Patterson Ufer, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................5,000
Unilever United States Foundation, New York, New York
for student financial aid and the Associates Program in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................2 0, 00 0
Union Carbide Corporation Chemicals & Plastics Group, South Charleston, West Virginia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Union Pacific Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................12,000


41




September Meeting, 1994


Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for Student Financial Aid in the School of Business Administration.......................................................5,000
Union Texas Petroleum, Houston, Texas
for  support    in   the   School  of  E ducation..........................................................................................................................12,500
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 25,000
University of Michigan Band Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Band Alumni Fund in the School of Music.......................................................................10,520
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Detroit
for the University of Michigan Club of Detroit Football Scholarship in the
D ep  artm  ent  of  A thletics                                                                                              000............................................................................................................................................................. 12,000
Harold & Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for student aid in the School of Education.................................25,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Frederick S. Upton Foundation Fund in the Clements Library..............................................10,000
Ella McCollum Vahlteich Estate
for the Ella McCollum Vahlteich Research Fund in the Medical School and for
the Ella and Hans Vahlteich Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy......................................121,810
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................5,000
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of MichiganD e a rb o r n....................................................................................................................................................................................................5, 00 0
Carl H. von Ende, Birmingham
for unrestricted support of the Law              School..................................................................................................................5,000
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, School of Business Administration,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................................................................5,000
Mark B. Wallner Foundation, Incline Village, Nevada
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,000
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
for the Harriett and John Walther Scholarship in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n......................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Herbert S. Wander, Highland Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................................................5,000
Gail L. Warden, Grosse Pointe
for the Program        in Hospital Administration in the School of Public Health.....................................5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and
the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................................445,800
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Dentistry......................................................................................28,791
Sylvia R. Wedemeyer, San Francisco, California
1,000 shares of Gerber Products common stock for student aid in the College of
L iteratu  re,  S cience,   an d   the   A rts........................................................................................................................................ 5 1,063
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Frankena and Stevenson Prizes in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 0,0 0 0
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for scholarships, fellowships, and research in the College of Engineering, the
Medical School, and the Horace H. Rackham                    School of Graduate Studies....................................166,738
Gerald E. White Estate
for  unrestricted       support   of the  Law      School...................................................................................................................5,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Elizabeth V. Gauss and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship Endowment in
the    School  of  B u siness    A dm inistration..........................................................................................................................e o11,000
Wilkinson Foundation, Grosse Pointe
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitors Center, School of Natural Resources and
E n v iro n m e n t.......................................................................................................................................................................................  10,0 0 0
Helen E. Willard, Chillicothe, Missouri
for the Social Work Unit in the University of Michigan Hospital in memory of
B e n n y   Z a y t..........................................................................................................................................................................................  1 0,0 0 0
Matilda Wilson Foundation, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Management Alumni Computer Laboratory........15,000
Thomas S. Wilson, Rochester Hills
for the William      Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration..................... 5,000


42




September Meeting, 1994


Isabel W. Wolpaw Trust
for  support     in   th e   M edical  S chool.........................................................................................................................................5,000
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for  the    U niversity     M u sical  Society.................................................................................................................................... 7,500
Xerox Corporation, U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center.......................................................................................................................5,000
Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy..................................................................................................................... 15,000
John B. Yoder, Butler, Pennsylvania
for the Cindy Yoder Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts...................................................................................................................................................................................................4 0,0 0 0
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey
for    the   Shady     T rails   C am p   F und......................................................................................................................................  12,000
Zeneca, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................. 27,100
Ferdinand B. Zienty, St. Louis, Missouri
cash gift for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Pharmacy and the Horace H. Rackham School
of  G radu   ate    S tu d ies......................................................................................................................................15,0 00
William E. Zimmie Trust
for the Benford - Zimmie Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................................................10,000
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for    em ployee     m atch  in g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 40,8 15
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for  research       in   th e   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, College of Pharmacy, and the Biophysics Research Division.......................................................146,737
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research       in   th e   M edical  S chool........................................................................................................................................9,350
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for  research       in   th e   M edical  S chool.....................................................................................................................................82,500
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for  research       in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................52,500
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for  research       in   th e  M edical  S ch ool........................................................................................................................................5,000
Andrews and McMeel Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Benjamin R. Burton Fellowship-Michigan Journalism Fellows Fund in
the Horace H. Rackham               School of Graduate Studies............................................................................................5,000
BT Foundation, New York, New York
for  em   p loyee   m atch   in g   gift s.......................................................................................................................................................8,89 0
Borg-Warner Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for  em  ployee      m atch in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................6,800
Burroughs Wellcome Company, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for health care industry and pharmaceutical marketing research in the School of
B u sin ess   A d m  in istration............................................................................................................................................................10,0 00
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for  research       in   the  School  of  E ducation.........................................................................................................................50,000
Ned I. Chalat, Grosse Pointe
for the Charles and Barbara Krause Humanities Fund and other support in the
Medical School, the Undergraduate Research Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Prismatic Club Renovations Fund..........................................................13,000
Chemical Bank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration...................................................7,500
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Taipei, Taiwan
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research...............................................................9,500
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Undergraduate Research Program and the Humanities Institute in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................................................................67,000
Cline, Davis & Mann, Inc., New York, New York
for  research       in   th e  M edical  S ch ool......................................................................................................................................5,000
Marlin Cole and Connie Belin Charitable Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the Humanities Challenge Grant in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts..........................................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Commission on Preservation and Access, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies.................................................................88,000


43




September Meeting, 1994


Simon A. Courtade Estate
for the Simon A. Courtade Graduate Student Support Fund...................................................................11,388
Margaret F. and Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity     M usical  Society...................................................................................................................................5,000
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
for Schembechler Hall and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................6,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research      in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................8,112
D. & N. Savings Bank, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Resources Center........................5,000
William K. Davenport, Bloomfield Hills
for  unrestricted     support     of  the  Law    School.................................................................................................................5,000
Gladys E. Davis Trust
for the Gladys E. Davis Endowment Funds in the Medical School, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Alumni Association.....................................450,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for  research      in   the   School  of  D entistry..........................................................................................................................42,226
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................34,500
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the du Pont Fundamental Research Funds and other support in the School
of Business Administration, Colleges of Pharmacy, Engineering and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the Women in Science Program in the Center for
th e   E du cation    of  W om en.........................................................................................................................................................182,000
Dykema, Gossett, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..............................................................................5,000
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William       E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship in the College of Engineering...........................9,000
Elizabeth Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for   th e   R ob ert  H. L u rie   F u n d.............................................................................................................................................. 100,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for   su pp ort  in   th e   L aw   S chool...................................................................................................................0............................40,553
Oscar H. Feldman, Detroit
7,200 shares of Optical Imaging Systems common stock for the William
Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.........................................................56,981
Fesjian Foundation, Pelham, New York
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Armenian Studies Program................................................30,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for materials science research in the College of Engineering......................................................................35,000
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for  the  H  ill A uditorium      R estoration     Fund..................................................................................................................... 5,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Parker B. Francis Fellowship in the Medical School.......................................................................18,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for aquatic sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................9,558
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the Harvey Kapnick Scholarship Endowment in the School of Business
A d m in istratio  n................................................................................................................................................................................5 0 0 90 0 0
Richard E. Genthe, Stuart, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.............................................................................5,000
Gornick Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for  research      in   th e   M edical  S ch ool........................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Georgia Campbell Haugh, Ann Arbor
for the Avery and Jule Hopwood Prize in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the Michigan LeaderShape Institute in the College of Engineering..............................................10,000
Richard L. Hirsch Foundation, New York, New York
for  support    in   the  D ivision    of  K inesiology................................................................................................................. 10,000
Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for pharmaceutics research in the College of Pharmacy..................................................................................28,000
JVM and JKM Foundation, Wyckoff, New Jersey
for unrestricted support in the School of Business Administration..........................................................5,000
Marilyn L. Jacob, West Branch
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................5,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for   em p loyee    m atch in g   gift s.......................................................................................................................................................7,200


44




September Meeting, 1994


Clair C. Johnston Estate
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.....................................................................................................200,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................... 15,000
W. M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the W. M. Keck Foundation Engineering Teaching Excellence Award
P rogram       in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering........................................................................................................................10,000
Miner S. Keeler II, Grand Rapids
60,000 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock for the
M. S. Keeler Chair in Mathematics and the M. S. Keeler Scholarships, College
of  L iterature,    Science,    and     the   A rts...........................................................................................................................2,058,750
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for program       support in the University Library....................................................................................................410,000
Carl A. Kreager, Seneca, South Carolina
500 shares of Echlin, Inc., common stock for the Carl Kreager Family
Scholarship Endowment in the Department of Athletics................................................................................15,563
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for  su pport    in   th e   M edical  School..........................................................................................................................................5,000
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research...................................................................................................21696
Charles A. Lindbergh Fund, St. Paul, Minnesota
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 10,580
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an  d   th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................18,0 0 0
Henry Luce Foundation, New York, New York
for South and Southeast Asian Studies in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.........................................................................................................................................................................................and the Arts45,000
J. Allan Mactier, Omaha, Nebraska
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan........................................................................25,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................38,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the Building Fund in the School of Social Work............................................................................................70,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for  research       in   th e   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,000
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for  the    U niversity     M usical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 12,500
C. Barry Montgomery, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support in the Law                School...................................................................................................................5,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for  research      in   th e  M edical  S chool....................................................................................................................................45,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for  research      in   the   M edical  S chool........................................................................................................................................6,250
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research in the Macromolecular Research Center..........................................................................................5,000
Network Express, Inc., Ann Arbor
for International Business 745 support in the School of Business Administration......................5,000
Nobelpharma U.S.A., Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence and other support in the School of Dentistry...................................30,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the College of
E n g in e e rin g........................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 0,0 0 0
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering....................................................................8,714
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Scholars Program in Conservation and the Environment in the
School of Natural Resources and Environment...............................................................................................1,533,673
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................12,500
Porter Foundation, East Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering.......................... 10,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Fellowship and other support in the College of
Engineering and for research in the College of Pharmacy.............................................................................28,000


45




September Meeting, 1994


Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Fund - MBA MAP Program in the School of Business
dministationAdministration...............................................................................................................................................................dministation....................31,00
Ramapo Trust, New York, New York
for the Ramapo Trust Brookdale National Fellowship in the Medical School...............................60,000
Bernard & Audre Rapoport Foundation, Waco, Texas
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................5,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................24,728
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................50 00
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Humanities Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts........................................0                                                                     00.................................................................................................................................................2 5,0 0 0
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarships in the Schools of Dentistry,
Public Health, and Nursing, and the College of Pharmacy..............................................................................6,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Afro-American and African Studies, College of
L iteratu   re,  S cience,  an  d   the   A rts....................................................................................................................................... 55,30 0
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Battle Creek
4,800 shares of J.M. Smucker Class B common stock for the Lyle C. Roll
M  em  orial   fu nd    in   the   M edical  School...........................................................................................................................105,000
Olga Roth Estate
for the Laurence and Olga Roth Scholarship............................................................................................................20,000
SAE Foundation, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for  support     in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.......................................................................................................................5,250
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for the C. S. Mott Hospital Golf Classic Benefit........................................................................................................5,000
E. Philip Sanford, Jr., Trust
for the E. Philip Sanford, Jr., Fund and for support in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies.........................................................................................................................................................ate Studies8,925
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................15,000
Chandrika and Rajagopal Shantaram, Grand Blanc
for the Beatrice and William Caldwell Scholarship Research Award, the University
o f   M ich ig a n -F lin t.................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Irene Shipman Estate
102,224 shares of various corporate common stocks and a utility bond for the
S h ip m an    S ch olarsh ip.............................................................................................................................................................. 3,2 3 7,2 35
Society Bank Michigan, Ann Arbor
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration........................................................15,000
Mary C. & Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Medical Scientist Training Program                    in the Medical School........................................................10,000
Raymond Tanter, Ann Arbor
for  th e  U n iversity     M u sical  S ociety........................................................................................................................................5,000
Toshiba America, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n......................................................................................................................................................................................7,5 0 0
Constantine A. Tsangadas Charitable Trust
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G ra d u a te   S tu d ie s................................................................................................................................................................................8,0 2 7
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Bob Ufer Quarterback Club, Ann Arbor
for the Bob Ufer Memorial Scholarship Fund.............................................................................................................6,000
United Technologies Automotive, Dearborn
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the College of
E n g in e e rin g..............................................................................................................................................................................................7,0 0 0
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship in the Department
o f   A th le tic s.............................................................................................................................................................................................2 1,0 0 0
University of Michigan Club of Flint, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Resources Center................................5,000
Chieko 0. Urakami, Kitaku Kobe, Japan
for the Levi Barbour Oriental Girls Scholarship Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies and for the College of Pharmacy................................................................... 10,000


46




September Meeting, 1994


Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts................................................................................................................................................ 5,174
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for  research       in   the   M edical  School...................................................................................................................................5,194
Yamaichi Securities Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 0 0
AMP, Incorporated, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for cumulative trauma disorders research in the College of Engineering.........................................25,000
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................33 333
Jay & Maryanne Alix Foundation, Southfield
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................14,200
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division.........................................95,285
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School....................................................................................................................................27490
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts................................................................................................................................................................................................. 115,593
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................43,667
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.......................................................................................5,098
Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C.
for the Center for Ergonomics Affiliates Program                       in the College of Engineering......................20,000
Lawrence J. Bates, Huntington, New York
for the Loyal Crew          Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................................................5,000
Boone & Darr, Inc., Mechanical Contractors, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit..............................................................................5,000
Elizabeth Broomfield, Bronxville, New York
480 shares of Gerber Products common stock for the College of Pharmacy..................................25,020
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in the School of Business Administration.............................8,766
Campbell Soup Company, Camden, New Jersey
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering and for employee
m  a tch in g   g ift s........................................................................................................................................................................................ 7,5 0 0
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for  the    U niversity     M u sical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Christy Industries, Inc., Fraser
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering.....................................................................................15,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Actuarial Science Program                in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............8,500
James William Commane Estate
for the James William           Commane Scholarship in the Law                   School...............................................................5,000
Computer Measurement Group, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering....................................................................7,500
Consumers Power Foundation, Jackson
for the Consumers Power Fund in the School of Business Administration.....................................20,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., New York, New York
for  research       in   the   M edical  S chool.....................................................................................................................................30,000
Simon A. Courtade Estate
for the Simon A. Courtade Graduate Student Support Fund......................................................................70,000
Dana Corporation, Toldeo, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and the
solar car project in the College of Engineering...........................................................................................................6,000
Paul T. David Revocable Trust, Charlottesville, Virginia
for the Paul T. David Political Studies Fund and the Paul David Endowment in
th e   In stitu te   for  S ocial  R esearch......................................................................................................................................... 25,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................26,250
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.............................................................................45,000


47




September Meeting, 1994


Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for The Detroit Free Press Dean's Merit Scholarship and other support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................25,000
Hildegard Doerenkamp-Gerhard Zbinden Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 32,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music..............21,000
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William     E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship in the College of Engineering...........................9,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for  em ployee     m atch ing   gifts.......................................................................................................895...........................................46,895
First of America Bank - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity   M u sical  Society.......................................................................................................................................7,500
Sonja & Conrad Fischer Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for the F. Conrad Fischer Fund in the School of Business Administration........................................8,000
Carl M. Frederickson Estate
for the Oscar and Emma Frederickson Scholarship in the School of Music....................... 162,168
Madeline M. Fusco Estate
for the Physiology Basic Sciences Matching Program                 in the Medical School.................................30,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for pediatrics-endocrinology research in the Medical School............................................. 45,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for  em p loy ee   m atch in g   gifts...................................................................................................................................................42,659
Rodolfo Uy Ham, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School......................................7,618
Health Education Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in Graduate Medical Education in the
M  e d ica l  S c h o o l.......................................................................................................................................................................................8,5 6 2
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
a challenge grant for the Partners Plus Multi-Level Program, the University of
M  ich ig a n -D e a rb orn.........................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 0 0
Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund and for the Engineering Center in the
C ollege    of   E n gin eerin g.................................................................................................................................................................4 7,5 0 0
Issac Hunt Trust
for  Endow   ed  Scholarships     in  the  Law   School...........................................................................................................25,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program      in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry.........................................................61,750
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering...................................................................................25,000
Verne G. Istock, Bloomfield Hills
1,480 shares of NBD Bancorp, Inc., common stock for the School of Music...................................47,268
Lester F. Johns, Ann Arbor
for the Alvin Johnson Stewart, M.D., Fellowship in the Medical School............................................20,000
Albin I. Johnson Estate
for the Albin I. Johnson Concert Band Scholarship in the School of Music..................................100,000
Charles F. Johnson, Grand Rapids
for the Charles and Barbara Johnson Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm  inistration...................................................................................................................................................................................10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research     in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................146,705
Ila C. Jones Trust
for  th e  Ila   C.  Jon es  S cholarship.........................................................................................................................................100,000
Kanebo, Ltd., New York, New York
for  research     in   the  C ollege  of  Pharm acy......................................................................................................................15,000
Robert P. Kelch, Iowa City, Iowa
305 shares of corporate common stocks for support in the Medical School.................................... 13,253
Leukemia Society of America, New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................8,370
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.....................................................................................................................................................................50,000
Katherine Ling Estate
for the Katherine Ling Scholarship Endowment.................................................................................................. 48,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research and other support in the School of Education...................................................................... 171,000


48




September Meeting, 1994


Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research             in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................13,750
Marathon Oil Foundation, Findlay, Ohio
for  em   ployee      m atching      gifts....................................................................................................................................................25,188
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research        in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................42,812
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for scholarships, fellowships, and other support in the College of Engineering..........................20,000
McGraw Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Associates Program                in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
McNamara Charity Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the McNamara Charity Fund Scholarship at the University of MichiganD  e a r b o r n....................................................................................................................................................................................................7,0 0 0
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for    em ployee      m atch  in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................9,0 69
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint
for the Program           in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry........................................61,750
National Black Programming Consortium, Columbus, Ohio
for the Porgy and Bess Fund in the School of Music......................................................................................... 10,000
George J. Nichols, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the George J. Nichols, Jr., Student Internship in the School of Business
A  d m in istratio   n................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 0,000
Nippon Life Insurance Company, Tokyo, Japan
for the Nippon Life Professorship in the Law                         School......................................................................................200,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for    research      in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 100,000
Andrew S. Price, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania
for unrestricted         support of the Law           School...................................................................................................................5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for    em p loy ee    m atch  in g    gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 5 1,5 10
Edwin Przybylowicz, Webster, New York
110 shares of Eastman Chemical common stock for chemistry support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................................................................5,658
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
for the History of Art Special Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts.............................................................................................................................................................................................5,6 3 9
Reader's Digest Foundation, Pleasantville, New York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism Scholarship in the College of
L iteratu   re,   S cience,    an d    the   A rts........................................................................................................................................21,500
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Davis, California
for  research        in   th e  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................6,250
Sara Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for    th e   R ob ert   H. L u rie   F u n d.............................................................................................................................................. 100,000
George H. Schiff Estate
for the George H. Schiff Fund in the School of Business Administration......................................122,028
Will and Barbara D. Scott Fund of the Community Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the School of Business Administration.....................................................................................................................5,160
Merton & Beverly Segal Philanthropic Fund, Boca Raton, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................................10,500
Chandrika and Rajagopal Shantaram, Grand Blanc
for the Beatrice and William Caldwell Scholarship, the University of MichiganF lin t................................................................................................................................................................................................................5, 00 0
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for tennis facilities in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................................150,000
Nelson L. Smith Building, Escanaba
for the Nelson L. Smith Award in the School of Dentistry............................................................................ 10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.........................................................................................................................17,500
Sperry Fund, New York, New York
for the Beinecke Memorial Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................................................7,5 0 0
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School....................................................................................................................................   19,263
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School.......................................................................... 8,571
Charles J. Strosacker Foundation, Midland
for the Hill Auditorium             Restoration Fund..................................................................................................................75,000


49




September Meeting, 1994


Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for  the  Scottish  Rite  Funds  in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................8,584
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, White Plains, New York
for   em p loy ee   m atch in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................7,15 0
Richard H. Turner, Grosse Pointe Farms
100 shares of Cabletron Systems, Inc., common stock for support of the College
of  L iterature,  Science,  and   the   A rts................................................................................................................................. 10,381
John J. Voorhees, Ann Arbor
for the  M om entUM     Cam paign  in  the  M edical School..........................................................................................5,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C.
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington D.C. Scholarship...........................   13,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts.............................................................................................................................................   10,840
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for  biostatistics  support in  the  School of Public  Health................................................................................. 10,504
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for the Jeanette and Byron B. Webb, Jr., Term        Graduate Scholarship in the School
of  B u sin ess   A dm in istration...................................................................................................................................................... 1 0,000
Harley J. Westfall, Adrian
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics......... 7..............7,500
Ruthmary S. Westfall Trust, Adrian
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................................................................7,500
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering and for physics
research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................................110,204
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Frank B. Womer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
th e   S ch ool  of  E du cation...........................................................................................................................  1 0,000
G. Walter Woodworth Trust
for the Robert G. Rodkey Fellowship and Scholarship in the School of Business
A d m in istratio n................................................................................................................................................................................10 0,0 0 0
Zatkoff Seals & Packings, Farmington
for  scholarships  in  the  D epartm ent  of Athletics................................................................................................... 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Laura Adler, Lake City
an X-L Ralley wheelchair for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Pediatric Physical Therapy
Unit
Richard S. Berger, Chicago, Illinois
two round-trip airline tickets to London via the Concorde for the University Musical Society
Arthur I. Cohen, Los Angeles, California
two contemporary paintings: Michael Young's "Untitled," sand, soil, acrylic on canvas and Gary
Lang's "Untitled," acrylic on canvas for the Museum of Art
Coordinate Measuring Machines, Morton, Illinois
a Laser Doppler Displacement Meter III system for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics
Ann M. Damon, Ann Arbor
a Standing Dani "Sprout" mobility system for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Pediatric
Physical Therapy Unit
Catherine Fetzner, Walled Lake
a Du-It Control system for wheelchairs for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Pediatric
Physical Therapy Unit
Ford Motor Company Powertrain Operations, Dearborn
a Ford 4.6L, four-cam V8 engine, sectioned and mounted on a portable display stand for the
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Jerrold Frost, Ann Arbor
a Kemp "Rancher Deluxe" chipper/shredder for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
an EMI measurement system, an HP-Model 755 workstation, three HP-Model 715
workstations, and one HP-Model 712 workstation for the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
an HP Deskjet 1200c printer for the Computer-Aided Engineering Network


50




September Meeting, 1994


Thomas E. Hollen, Canton
a large wood sculpture of Age Grade Society figure from the New Hebrides for the Museum of
Anthropology
Honeywell, Inc., Farmington Hills
a complete Honeywell security system for the golf course, Department of Athletics
IBM Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
a 3172-003 interconnect controller, a 9309-002 rack enclosure, and related equipment for the
North Campus Computing Center
IBM Corporation, Armonk, New York
a variety of computer equipment including an IBM SP/1 parallel computer for the ComputerAided Engineering Network
Intel Corporation Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
eighteen Intel ethernet boards, two Intel smart video recorders, and fifteen 486DX2 computer
systems with software for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Davis MacDonald, Shepherd
an Invacare Arrow wheelchair with tray for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Pediatric
Physical Therapy Unit
Michigan Eye Center, Canton
equipment including special cameras for the Department of Ophthalmology
Shirley G. Mirsky, Ann Arbor
363 technical reference manuals for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Motorola, Inc., Austin, Texas
fifty Model MC68HC711E9 dies for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Simplex Time Recorder Company, Livonia
fire alarm equipment for the golf course, Department of Athletics
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
47 volumes of slides and photographs illustrating monuments in Central Thailand for the Department of the History of Art
Wagner Spray Tech Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
a Wagner HVLP power sprayer with power cart and capspray for the museum of Paleontology
George E. Wantz, New York, New York
a significant collection of rare medical books for the Taubman Medical Library
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
a Baccarat/Chaumet sculpture; a Chinese Sung Dynasty white ceramic urn with cover; a
Gibigiani table lamp; a Frank Lloyd Wright low table; and thirty-five pieces of Baccarat crystal
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Permanent Art Collection, and a Packard-Bell 486SX
computer system with Star printer for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of
Humanities
Victor H. Garske, Birmingham
eighty-six BetaCam videocassettes and fifty thirty-minute video tapes for WFUM-TV
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
eleven Mac Powerbook computers with accessories for the School of Business Administration
Diana Pullen, Effingham, Illinois
a Myoelectric arm and hand prosthesis and related items for the Department of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Richard H. Adler, Ypsilanti               John Dempsey, Vassar
Marian R. Agree, Flint                    Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor
Anderson Paint Company, Ann Arbor         Arthur D. Griffiths, Romulus
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor               Charles F. Griffiths III, Romulus
BGF Industries, Inc., Greensboro, NC      Elena R. Guevara, Clio
Theodore C. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor          Ruth Hanson, Bay City
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield           Doug Hoppa, Holly
Alfred Block, Romulus                     Karin L. Jones, Dallas, Texas
George J. Bornstein, Ann Arbor            Helen Kelley, Pinckney
Carole A. Brender, Flushing               Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Ruth A. Bruce, Dearborn                   David K. Maxfield, Ann Arbor
Gaspare Louis Calandrino, Ada             Patricia P. McFadden, Ann Arbor
Judy Chapman, Flushing                    Leslie Page Moch, East Lansing
Ron Crowdy, Flint                         Samuel E. Morello, Fenton
Alan V. Deardorff, Ann Arbor              Richard E. Nisbett, Ann Arbor


51




September Meeting, 1994


Virginia B. Nordby, Ann Arbor
Susan G. Nordlinger, Ypsilanti
Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Leonard Rosenzweig, Grand Rapids
Paul Rozycki, Flint
Donald A. Sesnie, St. Clair Shores
Cathy Smith, Flint
Julie A. Smith, Westland
Nancy Spilker, Dearborn
Electra Stamelos, Dearborn
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
William R. Stolpin, Holly
Jean Grant Taylor Trust, Ann Arbor
Robert Vandorlinden, Brownstown
Mary L. Varterasian, Birmingham
Guy Adamec, Goodrich
Doug Warner, Flint
Robert M. Warner, Ann Arbor
Christine M. Waters, New Hudson
Mary Lou Wells, Winnetka, IL


Barbara White, Flushing
Sharon A. Wysocki, Ann Arbor
Michael Zinman, Ardsley, NY
Fay E. Edsall, Ann Arbor
Susan H. Hamady, Ann Arbor
Bonnie King, Plymouth
John T. White III, Ann Arbor
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company,
Concord, CA
Valerie Clark, Flint
Robert S. Cox, Ann Arbor
John C. Dann, Dexter
Tom Eisenbeiser, Ann Arbor
Kenneth A. Hannon, Flint
Kathleen A. Herr, Westland
Samuel E. Lappin, Huntington Woods
Daniel Murphy, Manistee
Danny L. Rendelman, Flint
Leonard E. Thomas, Flint


Provost's Reports. Associate Vice President Holbrook submitted personnel actions, personnel reports, retirement memoirs, and memorials. There were
no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Assanis, Dennis N., Ph.D., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Eagle, Kim A., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, October 1, 1994
Hiebert, Elfrieda H., Ph.D., Professor of Education
Ratanatharathorn, Voravit, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, January 1, 1995
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC AD      MI MINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Alpern, Mathew, Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics and Professor Emeritus of
Psychology, returned to active status, one-year term, July 1, 1994
Barrows, Herbert C., Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, returned to
active status, winter term 1995
Bassett, John R., Professor Emeritus of Forestry, returned to active status, fall term
Cash, William L., J.,, Professor Emeritus of Education, returned to active status, university year
Clark, Walter H., Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature,
returned to active status, university year
Galler, Bernard A., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
returned to active status, one-year term, June 1, 1994
Gray, Whitmore, Professor Emeritus of Law, returned to active status, winter term 1995
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, returned to active status, one-year
term, July 1, 1994
Hicks, Samuel P., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, returned to active status, one-year term
Hovey, Graham B., Professor Emeritus of Communication, returned to active status,
university year


52




September Meeting, 1994


Kachaturoff, Grace, Professor Emeritus of Education, UM-Dearborn, returned to active status,
fall term
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, returned to active status, university year
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education and Associate Professor Emeritus
of Library Science, returned to active status, university year
Parsons, Michael G., reappointed Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education, College of
Engineering, two-year term
Patterson, Donald J., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, returned to active status,
one-year term
Poster, John B., reappointed Dean, School of Education, UM-Dearborn, five-year term,
July 1, 1995
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law, returned to active status, fall term
Romani, John H., Professor Emeritus of Public Health Policy and Administration, returned to
active status, six-month term
Sands, Richard H., Professor Emeritus of Physics, returned to active status, university year
Schmidt, Robert W., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, returned to active status, one-year term,
August 1, 1994
Schwank, Johannes W., appointment extended as Chair, Department of Chemical Engineering,
fall term
Sengupta, Subrata, reappointed Dean, School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, five-year term,
July 1, 1995
Shaffer, Robert L., Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor Emeritus of
Fungal Taxonomy and Curator Emeritus of Fungi, returned to active status, one-year
term, January 1, 1995
Sinsheimer, Joseph E., Professor Emeritus of Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry and
Professor Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial Health, returned to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1994
Steinhoff, William, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, returned to active
status, university year
Stern, Aaron M., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, returned to
active status, two-year term, retroactive from December 1, 1993
Teske, Richard G., Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, returned to active status, university year
Vaughn, Joseph E., Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, returned to active
status, university year
Wolfson, Charles S., Professor Emeritus of Social Work, returned to active status, fall term
Wylie, E. Benjamin, appointment extended as Chair, Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, fall term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Atzmon, Michael, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure
Betz, A. Lorris, from the Crosby-Kahn Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of Neurology, without
tenure, Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs,
Medical School, to the Crosby-Kahn Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy,
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of Neurology,
without tenure, Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Senior Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, Medical School, August 1, 1994
England, Anthony W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure
Gilsdorf, Janet R., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
also appointed Interim Chair, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 15, 1994
Gordon, David, Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, also appointed Assistant Dean
for Faculty Affairs, Medical School, August 1, 1994
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Nuclear Engineering, fall term


53




September Meeting, 1994


Martin, William R., from Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department
of Nuclear Engineering, to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Associate
Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Engineering, five-year term, July 1, 1994
Moran, Gerald F., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, also appointed Interim
Associate Dean, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, one-year term
Rowan, Brian P., Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Acting Associate Dean,
School of Education, one-year term
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Aleinikoff, T. Alexander, Professor of Law, personal leave extended, January 1 -December 31, 1995
Gregerson, Linda K., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English, scholarly activity
leave extended
Lu, Shenglin, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave extended
Shaw, Theodore M., Assistant Professor of Law, personal leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Featherman, David L., Director, Institute for Social Research, five-year term
Hosokawa, Shuhei, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, five-month term,
January 1, 1995
Kopelman, Raoul, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Kasimir Fajans Professor
of Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics, five-year term
Leith, Emmett N., Schlumberger Professor in Engineering and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, reappointed Schlumberger Professor in
Engineering, three-year term, January 1, 1994
Lenk, Peter J., Associate Professor of Statistics and Management Science, without tenure, also
appointed Sanford R. Robertson Associate Professor of Business Administration,
one-year term
McKinley, Donna L., Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Vice
Chancellor for Student Affairs, UM-Dearborn, one-year term
Monterio, Anne W., Assistant Dean for Students, College of Engineering, three-year term
Ross, Lee D., Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law, fall term
Sperber, Dan, Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law, fall term
Sanford RL Robertson Assistant Professorship in Business Administration. The Regents approved a change in the name of this professorship to
the Sanford R. Robertson Assistant or Associate Professorship in Business
Administration. (Interim approval for this change had been granted by the
provost in August 1994.)
Daniel Katz Professorship in Psychology. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Daniel Katz Professorship in Psychology, effective August 1,
1994.
Claribel Baird Halstead         Professorship. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Claribel Baird Halstead Professorship in Music, effective
September 1, 1994.


54




September Meeting, 1994


Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval:
Alumni Association Business and Financial Affairs Committee
Beaver, Frank E., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1992-June 30, 1995
Fricke, Cedric V., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1992-June 30, 1995
Krumm, William B., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1992-June 30, 1995
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Harrison, Walter L., July 1, 1994, vice Richard L. Kennedy, resigned
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Beuche, James R., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Clark, C. E. Fraser, Jr., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Cross, Thomas N., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Dann, John C., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Diedrich, Duane N., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Hamp, Stephen, reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Hatcher, Harlan, reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Hayes, Walter, reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Heydon, Peter N., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Hoyt, Ruth B., October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995, vice Bly Corning, deceased
Karmazin, Ahne M., October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995, new appointment
Kennedy, Sally, reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Kingsley, Thomas, reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Klancnik, James M., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Mason, Philip P., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Pohrt, Richard A., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Price, Jacob M., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Schoff, Joanna, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995, new appointment
Seger, Martha R., October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995, vice Elizabeth Stranahan, deceased
Shapiro, Harold T., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Stebbins, William C., October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995, new appointment
Thompson, Bradley M., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Thurber, Cleveland, Jr., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Upton, David, reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
Wheeler, John D., reappointed, October 1, 1994-September 30, 1995
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Kettel, Raymond P., September 1, 1994-August 31, 1997, vice Richard W. Morshead,
term expired
Sayles, Daniel G., September 1-December 31, 1994, vice Joseph A Cepuran, sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Butz, David A, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Economics
Teoh, Siew H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
Baumgardner, Kirk R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Fazel, Nasim, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1994
Hacker, Corrine H., D.M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, July 1, 1994
Helman, Joseph I., D.M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, July 1, 1994
McKenzie, Clayton D., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1994


55




September Meeting, 1994


Rodriguez, Juan P., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1994
Wandera, Ruth A., M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 21, 1994
School of Education
Crawford, Barbara E., M.S., Lecturer in Education, July 1, 1994
College of Engineering
Bridges, Michael M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Fishstrom, Jack A, M.A, Lecturer in Humanities, August 1, 1994
Grosh, Karl, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Kuo, Arthur D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Lennon, Tava M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering
Zhang, Rachel Q., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering
School of Information and Library Studies
Miller, Carolynn M., M.I.L.S., Lecturer in Information and Library Studies, August 22, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barvinok, Alexandre I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Bean, Michael A, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Bernstein, Gary M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy
Bettinger, Christopher P., M.A, Lecturer II in Sociology
Biro, Matthew N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, History of Art and Assistant
Professor of Philosophy, Residential College
Bringardner, Stephen G., M.Div., Lecturer II in Comprehensive Studies, July 1, 1994
Chen, Yan, B.A, Instructor in Economics
Cho, Nancy J., M.A, Lecturer II in American Studies
Clark, Steven E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, January 1, 1995
Criso, Rachel A, Ph.D., Lecturer II in French
Daly, Kathleen, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Delfino, Donatella, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Dreiling, Michael C., M.A, Lecturer II in Sociology
Ekotto, Frieda, M.A, Assistant Professor of French
Gasharov, Vesselin N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Hovick, James W., B.A, Lecturer II in Chemistry
Knysh, Alexander D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Islamic Studies
Le Blanc, Ondine E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1994
Levey, Zachary M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science
Lovell, Joel P., M.F.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1994
Miloslavsky, Yuri, M.A, Lecturer I in Russian Literature, July 1, 1994
Ouyang, Mingqing, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Porter, Brian A, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Price, Paul C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Prins, Johanna H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature
Rickly, Rebecca J., M.A, Lecturer III in English
Rowan, James M., M.A, Lecturer I in Psychology
Smock, Pamela J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Song, Renming, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Spector, Scott D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and
Assistant Professor of History
Taylor, Edward C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Tin, Siu-Kei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Weirick, Allen P., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Wellin, Elaine S., M.Ed., Lecturer II in Sociology
Whitney, Glen T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Wingrove, Elizabeth R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
Medical School
Amerena, John, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 25, 1994
An, Lawrence C., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Auslender, Marcelo J., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1994
Bainnson, Andrew N., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994


56




September Meeting, 1994


Barrie, William E., M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Brown, Sandra M., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994
Caldicott, Catherine V., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Chiao, Ping-Chun, B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, August 1, 1994
Csorgo, Zsuzsanna B., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, July 1, 1994
Dade, Rodney B., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 18, 1994
Daoud, Emile G., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Deshmukh, Ganesh R., M.B., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Surgery, July 1, 1994
Dickinson, Lawrence D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1994
Domino, Steven E., Ph.D., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1994
Fancher, Linda E., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, August 1, 1994
Felt, Barbara T., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1994
Fetters, Michael D., M.P.H., Lecturer in Family Practice, July 1, 1994
Fisher, Laurel R., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Geiss, Michael J., III, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994
Giordano, Thomas J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, July 18, 1994
Glaser, Thomas M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Human Genetics
Gunn, Joseph D., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, August 1, 1994
Harmon, Carroll M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 16, 1994
Herzog, Susan B., Ph.D., Lecturer in Physiology
Hill, Timothy A., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 15, 1994
Im, Dukjin, M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 1, 1994
Kazanjian, Paul E., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 11, 1994
Krafcik, Sonja S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Kronberg, Stephen E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Kuhn, John E., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, August 1, 1994
Lelli, Joseph L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1994
Lewis, Dorothy A, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, August 1, 1994
Ljungman, Mats E. D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, July 11, 1994
Lopez, Alfredo D., Jr., M.A., Instructor in Air Force Officer Education Program, June 18, 1994
Malow, Beth A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology, August 15, 1994
Merajver, Sofia D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Moroi, Sayoko E., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994
Morton, Asa D., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994
Moscucci, Mauro, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Niebauer, Mark J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
O'Reilly, Michael, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 18, 1994
Sachdev, Namita, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Sadoshima, Junichi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 22, 1994
Schneiderman, Todd E., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994
Schum, Lori A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, July 1, 1994
Shadigian, Elizabeth M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
July 1, 1994
Singleton, Timothy P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, July 1, 1994
Soyster, Barbara C. S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1994
Stern, David T., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Stewart, Donald H., III, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1994
Strohbehn, Kris, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1994
Taheri, Paul A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1994
Taylor, Caroline L., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Uberti, Joseph P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1994
Wechsler, Daniel S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1994
Weintraub, Breton M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Wirth, Nancy E., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1, 1994
Wojno, Kirk J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, July 1, 1994
Young, Sally S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
August 15, 1994
Zoschnick, Lauren B., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, August 1, 1994


57




September Meeting, 1994


School of Music
Hahn, Jessica H., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama
Mountain, Vincent A., M.F.A, Assistant Professor of Theatre
Simoni, Mary H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Technology)
Walwyn, Karen M., D.M.A, Assistant Professor of Music (Dance)
School of Nursing
Cameron, Judith W., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Heinrich, Mary A, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Kerr, Madeleine J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
Nelson, Nadine F., M.N., Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Wagner, Deborah S., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, June 27, 1994
School of Public Health
Hamby, David M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health,
July 1, 1994
Lin, Xihong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics
Matheson, Donna M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs
Wang, Yuedong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Feliu, Fernando, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish
Lempert, Lora B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Thomas, John C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Sikora, Riyaz T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Landon, Timothy E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Human Resource Management
Lee, Hei-Wai, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Crow, Heidi C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Munoz, Martha L., from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Trullard, Tammy, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, August 15, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brown, Catherine, from Assistant Professor of Spanish to Assistant Professor of Spanish and
Comparative Literature, September 1, 1994
Colas, Santiago, from Assistant Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature to Assistant
Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature and Comparative Literature,
September 1, 1994
Dean, Carolyn A., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Visiting Lecturer II in
Mathematics, September 1, 1994
Tompkins, Terence M., from Lecturer II in Biology, Comprehensive Studies Program, to
Lecturer II in Biology and Lecturer II in Biology, Comprehensive Studies Program,
September 1, 1994
Worthey, Guy S., from Lecturer II to Research Fellow in Astronomy, September 1, 1994
Medical School
Adams, Paul T., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Cole, Theodore M., from Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Chair,
Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, to Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, July 16, 1994


58




September Meeting, 1994


Disher, Michael J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology
Elmer, Lawrence W., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Neurology to Assistant
Professor of Neurology, October 1, 1994
Fine, Paul L., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, September 1, 1994
Goold, Susan D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Iannettoni, Mark D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery
Kapur, Jaideep, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Neurology
Man, Kim C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Punch, Jeffrey D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery
Silver, Samuel M., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Internal Medicine
Vazquez, Delia M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
Wald, John J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Bardwell, Lisa V., from Lecturer in Resource Policy and Behavior to Assistant Research Scientist,
September 1, 1994
School of Nursing
Hogan, Mary M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, September 1, 1994
Institute for Social Research
Semetko, Holli A., from Assistant Professor of Communication, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, to Adjunct Faculty Associate, Center for Political Studies, September 1, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
McGill, Anthony D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of English, September 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Carter, Carol A, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1L
December 31, 1994, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Business Administration
Batra, Rajeev, Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1995
Capozza, Dennis R., Stephen M. Ross Professor of Real Estate and Professor of Finance, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Hanley, Kathleen W., Assistant Professor of Finance, leave without salary
Suslow, Valerie Y., Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Drach, John C., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of
Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-February 28, 1995
Nanda, Surender K., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, extended sick leave, May 1, 1994 -April 30, 1995
Shipman, Charles, Jr., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, June 1 -August 31, 1994
Strachan, Donald S., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate
Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
January 1-31, 1994
Teppo, Kenneth W., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough


59




September Meeting, 1994


School of Education
Alfred, Richard L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Blumenfeld, Phyllis C., Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1~
May 31, 1995
Harrison, Don K., Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Maehr, Martin L., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Meisels, Samuel J., Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, sabbatical leave
Wixson, Karen K., Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Engineering
Bean, James C., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Birmingham, William P., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
Demond, Avery H., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, leave
without salary
Durfee, Edmund H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Gray, Donald H., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Hayes, Kim F., Associate Professor of Environmental Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Holmes, John W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1995
Jacobs, Stanley J., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Kaviany, Massoud, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Kota, Sridhar, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Perkins, Noel C., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Sakallah, Karem A., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Schultz, Albert B., Vennema Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Triantafyllidis, Nicolas, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Ulsoy, A. Galip, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1995
Waas, Anthony M., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Information and Library Studies
Warner, Robert M., Professor of Library Science, with tenure, and Dean Emeritus, School of
Information and Library Studies, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1995
Division of Kinesiology
Foss, Merle L., Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Antonucci, Toni C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Human Development Psychology, without tenure, Medical
School, duty off campus, June 10-August 29, 1994
Bahti, Timothy H., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and
Comparative Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave


60




September Meeting, 1994


Bailey, Richard W., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Barrett, David E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Baxter, Charles M., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Becker, Jill B., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Berger, Gabriel, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave
Borgers, Christoph, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary
Brown, Donald R., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, July 1, 1994 -June 30, 1995
Burch, John B., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, duty off campus, July 19-September 1, 1994
Burns, Daniel M., Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-December 31, 1994, and leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1995
Canary, Richard D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave
Casa, Frank P., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Chrisman, Robert, Lecturer III in English Language and Literature and Lecturer III in
Afroamerican and African Studies, leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1994
Coxford, Arthur F., Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Crichton, Mary C., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, retirement furlough
Eley, Geoffrey H., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Fabian, Hans J., Assistant Professor of German, retirement furlough
Flint, Christopher, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, leave without salary
Fogel, Robert D., Associate Professor of Botany, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Fornaess, John E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1o
December 31, 1994
Freedman, Jonathan E., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave
Griess, Robert L., Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Hafter, Monroe Z., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 1995
Hales, Thomas C., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Hall, Richard L., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary
Hazlett, Brian A, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Heinonen, Juha, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Hofacker, Erich P., Jr., Assistant Professor of German, retirement furlough
Ingram, William, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off campus
Isaacson, Joel, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1995
Juster, Susan M., Assistant Professor of History, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Karlsen, Carol F., Associate Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Kinder, Donald R., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, scholarly activity leave
Knott, John R., Jr., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Kopelman, Raoul, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Koskela, Pekka J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Larson, Kerry C., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Lavoie, Kathleen H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Lawrence, Ruth J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave
Lee, Theresa M., Assistant Professor of Psychology, sabbatical leave
Leon, Juan E., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, leave without salary,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1996
Lott, John W., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus


61




September Meeting, 1994


Lucente, Gregory L., Professor of Italian and Comparative Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
MacDonald, Michael P., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Mannheim, Bruce, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Markus, Hazel J., Helen Peak Professor of Psychology and Professor of Psychology, with tenure,
leave without salary
McCarus, Ernest N., Professor of Arabic and Kurdish, with tenure, retirement furlough
McSparran, Frances K., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1994
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Morris, Charles G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1=
May 31, 1995
Olson, Sheryl L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Ortner, Sherry B., Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with
tenure, leave without salary
Paris, Scott G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, duty off campus, March 1 -May 31, 1995
Pedley, John G., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Press, Andrea L., Associate Professor of Communication and Women's Studies, with tenure,
leave without salary
Schoenfeldt, Michael C., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
duty off campus
Scholler, Harald, Professor of German, with tenure, retirement furlough
Schuman, Howard, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1995
Scott, Rebecca J., Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Smith, Macklin, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Stensones, Berti, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus
Suny, Ronald G., Alex Manoogian Professor of Modern Armenian History, with tenure, leave
without salary, September 1-December 31, 1994
Thornton, J. Mills, III, Richard Hudson Research Professor of History and Professor of History,
with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Titunik, Irwin R., Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, retirement
furlough
Vrettos, Athena, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies,
leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1994
Weintraub, Daniel J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1995
White, Nicholas P., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Williams, Melvin D., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Wooley, Trevor D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Yaeger, Patricia S., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Medical School
D'Errico, Celia M., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, April 29-May 29, 1994
Junck, Larry R., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1994
Morley, George W., Norman F. Miller Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure,
extended sick leave, May 3-31, 1994
Quint, Douglas J., Assistant Professor of Radiology, sabbatical leave, July 1-August 31, 1994
Sulavik, Denise E., Lecturer in Pathology, leave without salary, July 5-August 14, 1994


62




September Meeting, 1994


Weinhold, Paul A, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-August 31, 1995
School of Music
Froseth, James 0., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, and
Lecturer in Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Sarath, Edward W., Associate Professor of Music (Jazz), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1995
Schotten, Yizhak, Associate Professor of Music (Viola), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1995
Smith, H. Dennis, Professor of Music (Trombone), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1995
Standifer, James A., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, and
Lecturer in Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Brown, Terry J., Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Mohai, Paul, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, leave without salary,
July 10-August 13, 1994
Webb, Paul W., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Wiley, Michael J., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Witter, John A, Professor of Forestry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Nursing
Barkauskas, Violet H., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1995
Oakley, Deborah J., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
School of Public Health
Berld, Sylvester E., Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
retirement furlough
Brown, Morton B., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Jacobson, Arnold P., Professor of Environmental Health, with tenure, retirement furlough
Vaughan, Frizell L., Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure,
retirement furlough
School of Social Work
Bertcher, Harvey J., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough
Danziger, Sandra KI, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Danziger, Sheldon H., Professor of Social Work and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Higgs, Elton D., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-April 30, 1995
Radine, Lawrence B., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Smith, Patricia KI, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Wider, Kathleen V., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Zitzewitz, Paul W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994~
April 30, 1995


63




September Meeting, 1994


UM-Dearborn School of Education
Cepuran, Joseph A., Associate Professor of Public Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Akhoury, Ratindranath, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1994, and January 1-May 31, 1995 (previously reported as January 1 -December 31, 1994)
Burns, Nancy E., Assistant Professor of Political Science, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994 (previously reported as leave without salary)
Cohen, Michael D., Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994 (previously reported as September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995)
Smith, J. Graham, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1, 1994-May 31, 1995 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1994)
Wooley, Trevor D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave canceled,
(previously reported as September 1- December 31, 1994)
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Kottemann, Jeffrey E., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, without
tenure, resigned, May 31, 1994
School of Dentistry
Krishnan, Vejayan, Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete
Obrez, Ales, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned, August 31, 1994
Temple, Henry J., Lecturer in Dentistry, resigned
College of Engineering
Fassois, Spiligos D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, resigned, May 31, 1994
Fijan, Robert S., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, term
complete, May 31, 1994
Giles, Martin D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, resigned,
July 31, 1994
Lam, Ching Y. T., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, resigned
Vogel, Timothy M., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, resigned,
May 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Abbuhl, Marc S., Lecturer I in German Literature, term complete, April 30, 1994
Alvarez-Puente, Maria I., Lecturer II in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1994
Barkan, Leonard, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
History of Art, without tenure, resigned, May 31, 1994
Belateche, Lydia, Lecturer II in French, term complete, April 30, 1994
Bohus, Geza, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, August 14, 1994
Dawson, Michael C., Associate Professor of Political Science and Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1994
Dawson, William R., Dugald E. S. Brown Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, retired,
August 31, 1994
Foote, Michael J., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, resigned, August 31, 1994
Gamer, Michael C., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete, May 31, 1994
Genius, Margarita, Assistant Professor of Economics, resigned, May 31, 1994


64




September Meeting, 1994


Gersovitz, Mark, Professor of Economics, with tenure, resigned, August 31, 1994
Gindin, James J., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Chair,
Scholarship Committee, deceased, July 30, 1994
Humphrey, John H., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Latin, with tenure, resigned,
July 31, 1994
Leon, Juan E., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, resigned, May 31, 1994
Lutomski, Pawel R., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1994
Moe, Nelson J., Instructor in Italian, resigned, May 31, 1994
Smith, J. Graham, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, resigned, September 30, 1994
Tahvildar-Zadeh, Abdolreza, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, August 31, 1994
Valenstein, Elliot S., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1994
Will, Thomas C., Lecturer in Biology, resigned, May 31, 1994
Zajonc, Robert B., Charles Horton Cooley Distinguished University Professor of Social Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Director, Institute for Social
Research, retired, August 31, 1994
Medical School
Arnett, Amy M., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned
Arsov, Milimir D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
August, David A, Assistant Professor of Surgery, term complete
Becker, Frank S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Castelli, Walter A., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1994
Cordova, Diana I., Assistant Professor of Psychology, resigned, May 31, 1994
Dabich, Lyubica, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retired
Ding, Xinxin, Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, resigned, July 1, 1994
Dorostkar, Parvin C., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, term complete,
July 8, 1994
Farries, Katherine K., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Feinberg, Andrew P., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, resigned, August 31, 1994
Gregg, Cynthia M., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, term complete
Grossman, H. Barton, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, resigned, August 4, 1994
Henderson, Joseph M., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Hennein, Hani A, Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, June 22, 1994
Hepner, Anne, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Higginbotham, Eve J., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Assistant Dean
for Faculty Affairs, resigned, July 5, 1994
Howatt, William F., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, retired,
August 31, 1994
Huber, Thomas P., Lecturer in Surgery, term complete
Hummel, John D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, June 23, 1994
Johnson, Frederick L., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
Kelch, Robert P., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, resigned,
August 14, 1994
Kim, Sucha, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Koskuc, Carol L., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
McLeod, Michael K, Assistant Dean for Student and Minority Affairs and Assistant Professor of
Surgery, resigned
Miller-Meeks, Mariannette J., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, resigned, August 7, 1994
Nordby, Gordon L., Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, retired,
September 30, 1994
Pearl, Michael L., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, term complete
Perry, Angela F., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1994
Petti, Mary G., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
Rao, Leela N., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Ryan, James J., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Sandhu, Satinder K., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned
Scales, Wendy E., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, June 24, 1994
Seid, Jerome E., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Shimizu, Yoji, Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, resigned, July 29, 1994
Soukas, Peter A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Stenson, Kerstin M., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, term complete


65




September Meeting, 1994


Sullivan, John M., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 31, 1994
Swan, Lynn L., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, resigned, July 15, 1994
Terhune, Margaret H., Lecturer in Dermatology, resigned
Turka, Laurence A., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, resigned
Turrisi, Andrew T., III, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure, resigned,
August 31, 1994
Uitvlugt, Neal D., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned
Vermaire, Robert P., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, resigned, July 31, 1994
Waring, William P., III, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, resigned,
July 31, 1994
Watson, Wendy, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned, July 8, 1994
Weber, Barbara L., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned
Wertheim, William A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Williams, Laura A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Williamson, Brian D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete
Yeung, Hong N., Associate Professor of Radiologic Sciences, without tenure, resigned,
August 31, 1994
School of Music
Draper, Debra A, Lecturer in Musical Theatre, resigned, May 31, 1994
Nessen, Julie, Lecturer in Music (Musical Theatre), term complete, April 30, 1994
Pope, M. Louise A, Lecturer in Music, (Piano), term complete, May 31, 1994
Tan, Victor En Yu, Associate Professor of Theatre, resigned, May 31, 1994
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Swierzbinski, Joseph E., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, term complete, May 31, 1994
School of Nursing
Hoyer, Paulette J. P., Assistant Professor of Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1994
School of Social Work
Schwartz, Ira M., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bruederlei, Leo P., Assistant Professor of Biology, resigned
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Nau, Karen L., Lecturer in Physical Therapy, resigned
CANCELLATIONS OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Clark, Gracia C., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Afroamerican and African Studies
(previously reported as term complete, May 31, 1994)
Retirement Memoirs
Walter A. Castelli, D.D.S., professor of anatomy, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1994, after a productive and balanced career of teaching, research, and administration at the University of Michigan Medical School.
Dr. Castelli completed his D.D.S. degree at the University of Chile in 1957
and his M.S. degree (anatomy) at the University of Michigan in 1964. From
1964-66, he was an instructor in the Department of Anatomy at the University of
Concepcion in Chile. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1966 as an
assistant professor of anatomy and was promoted to associate professor in 1970
and professor in 1977.


66




September Meeting, 1994


In the anatomy department, Dr. Castelli conducted research on periodontal
disease, taught medical and dental gross anatomy, and was director of the
Inteflex gross anatomy course for many years. He has also been active in
numerous professional societies, including the American Association of Anatomists and the International Association for Dental Research, and he continues to
review articles for the Journal of the American Dental Association and The Cleft
Palate Journal. His research has been reported in numerous peer-reviewed
journal articles and book chapters.
Dr. Castelli has been the recipient of many distinguished teaching awards
throughout his career at the University of Michigan. He received the Kaiser
Permanente Award for Excellence in Teaching of the Basic Sciences in 1988 and
most recently was awarded the Council's Choice Award by the Inteflex Medical
Student Council.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service to the University of Michigan by naming Walter A Castelli professor
emeritus of anatomy.
James E. Crowfoot, professor of natural resources and urban and regional planning and former dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, retired from active faculty status on July 31, 1994, following 29 years of
distinguished service.
Professor Crowfoot received his B.A degree from Knox College (1961), his
B.D. degree in theology from Gettysburg Lutheran Theological Seminary (1965),
and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees (1971 and 1972, respectively) from the University of Michigan. From 1965-70 he served as assistant project director and
program assistant at the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research,
and in 1970 he was named project director of the Educational Change Team,
School of Education. He joined the School of Natural Resources and Environment in 1972 as an assistant professor of natural resources and urban and
regional planning. He was promoted to associate professor in 1975 and professor
in 1981.
Professor Crowfoot served as dean of the School of Natural Resources and
Environment from 1983-90, guiding it through a challenging period of change
and reorganization. During that period, he oversaw the design and implementation of major curriculum changes at all degree levels and presided over a budget
reduction and downsizing of the school. He also established a new research
division and fundraising program.
From 1989 until his retirement, Professor Crowfoot was director of the Pew
Scholars Program in Conservation and the Environment. He was also a
co-founder and active participant in the Program in Conflict Management
Alternatives. In addition, Professor Crowfoot represented the School of Natural
Resources and Environment on numerous University-wide committees and
served in a great many capacities within the school.
Professor Crowfoot's teaching and research centered on conflict management in environmental and other social-change organizations; environmental
education; and social inequities and justice. His writing and his extensive
involvement with organizations have focused on the process of change in an


67




September Meeting, 1994


effort to increase diversity and multiculturalism and to promote the means for
fostering a more sustainable future.
The Regents now salute this dedicated faculty member by naming James E.
Crowfoot dean emeritus and professor emeritus of natural resources and urban
and regional planning.
Wllliam  R. Dawson, the Dugald E. S. Brown Professor of Biological
Sciences and research scientist in the Museum of Zoology, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 1994, following 41 years of service at the University
of Michigan.
A native of Los Angeles, Professor Dawson received his AB. degree (1949)
from Stanford University and his M.A (1950) and Ph.D. (1953) degrees from the
University of California at Los Angeles. He came to the University of Michigan
in 1953 as an instructor in zoology; he was promoted to assistant professor in
1956, associate professor in 1959, and professor in 1962 and has held his collegiate professorship since 1981.
The esteemed status Professor Dawson enjoys in his field is reflected in his
numerous awards, honors, and society memberships; his scientific productivity;
and his reputation for research of the highest quality, all of which have been
achieved in addition to his considerable administrative responsibilities, first as
chair of the Department of Biology (1974-82) and then as director of the Museum
of Zoology (1982-93). Moreover, he managed to do much of the research with his
own hands, a rare accomplishment, indeed.
As a result of Professor Dawson's vision, energy, and administrative skils,
the University's Museum of Zoology was the first in the world to have a modern
laboratory for the application of the latest methods of molecular analysis to problems in systematics and evolution. As a teacher, Professor Dawson's many contributions are reflected in his teaching awards and in the long list of graduate
students he has trained, most of whom have gone on to enjoy distinguished
careers of their own. His reputation as a teacher, mentor, and scientist is
reflected in the fact that he presently chairs thesis committees of two Ph.D.
students, both of whom came here specifically to work with him despite knowing
that he would retire from active duty before they could finish their studies.
There are many ways in which one can contribute to research and scholarship at the University: by engaging in it oneself, by training one's students to
engage in it, and by providing the intellectual leadership that stimulates and
directs the energies of one's colleagues. Professor Dawson has managed to
contribute magnificently in all of these ways.
The Regents salute this educator and scientist by naming William R. Dawson the Dugald E. S. Brown Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences and
research scientist emeritus.
William  F. Howatt, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable
diseases, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1994.
Dr. Howatt received his B.S. degree from the University of Maine in 1951
and his M.D. degree from Boston University in 1955. After completing an
internship at Ancker Hospital in St. Paul, Minnesota, Dr. Howatt came to the
University of Michigan, where he completed his pediatric training in 1959 and


68




September Meeting, 1994


then joined the faculty as an instructor in the Department of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1975.
Dr. Howatt specialized in the respiratory diseases of childhood and contributed to the emerging specialty of pediatric pulmonology by determining widelyused standard values of pulmonary function tests for young children. To date,
this is the only study in which the growth of distinct elements of pulmonary
function in normal children was followed longitudinally in a single cohort. He
published widely and was elected a member of the Society for Pediatric Research.
During 1963-64, Dr. Howatt was a post-doctoral fellow at University College in
London, England, where he studied the lung physiology of newborn infants.
Other scholarly work addressed the effect of passive smoke inhalation on
children, control of breathing in newborns, and fetal lung development.
Dr. Howatt's interest in the care of children with cystic fibrosis led to the
establishment of the Cystic Fibrosis Center at the University of Michigan
Medical Center. He also recognized the importance of providing care for the
increasing number of patients reaching adulthood and helped establish a
transition program which became the Adult Cystic Fibrosis Clinic. He directed
the Pediatric Pulmonary Function Laboratory at Mott Children's Hospital and
served as the program director of pediatric pulmonology. Dr. Howatt also served
the Medical School for many years as the chair of the Inteflex Admissions
Committee, carrying out this responsibility with diligence and concern. The
success of the students in this unique program and the quality of the graduates
were a source of great satisfaction to him.
The Regents salute this distinguished clinician, scholar, and teacher, by
naming William F. Howatt professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable
diseases.
David Y. Hughes, professor of humanities in the College of Engineering,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Hughes received his B.A. degree from the University of CaliforniaBerkeley in 1951, his MA. degree from Columbia University in 1955, and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois in 1962. After serving as an instructor in English at the University of North Carolina from 1961-64, Professor
Hughes came to the University of Michigan in 1964 as an assistant professor in
the Department of English, College of Engineering. He was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and to professor in 1978.
In the Department of English (later renamed the Department of Humanities), Professor Hughes served as secretary to the faculty, chair of the Curriculum
Committee, and as a member of the Administrative Committee. He also chaired
a committee that undertook a five-year review of the department and made
major recommendations for the future. In addition, he served on the Engineering College Sesquicentennial Committee, Humanities Lecture Series Committee,
the Committee on University Scholarships, and the Henry Russel Award
Committee.
Professor Hughes' principal scholarly interest over the years has been H. G.
Wells and his work.  He has published a substantial number of articles and
reviews on Wells, and for some years has been an editorial consultant for


69




September Meeting, 1994


Science-Fiction Studies. With co-editors, he has published two books: H. G.
Wells: Early Writings in Science and Science Fiction (1975); and A Critical
Edition of The War of the Worlds, H. G. Wells' Scientific Romance, with
Introduction and Notes (1993). For the department, he originated the popular
course, "Science Fiction," and taught it for many years.
The regents now salute this faculty member for his many years of dedicated
service by naming David Y. Hughes professor emeritus of humanities.
Robert P. Kelch, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases, left the University of Michigan on August 14, 1994, to assume the position
of dean of the University of Iowa College of Medicine.
After receiving his Ph.B. degree in 1964 from Wayne State University, Dr.
Kelch began his association with the University of Michigan, where he graduated
cum laude from the Medical School in 1967 and completed his pediatric residency
in 1970. He served as an NIH trainee in pediatric endocrinology at the University of California, San Francisco, from 1970-72, but returned to the University as
assistant professor of pediatrics in 1972. He was promoted to associate professor
in 1975 and professor in 1977.
Dr. Kelch's accomplishments as a scholar, clinician, educator, and administrator are extraordinary. His scholarly work in developmental endocrinology has
contributed greatly to our understanding of the hormonal regulation of puberty.
Despite the specialized nature of his research, he has maintained a comprehensive command of clinical pediatrics, enabling him to influence the professional
growth of hundreds of young pediatricians.
In 1981, Dr. Kelch was appointed chair of the Department of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases. Under his leadership, the department has experienced
unprecedented growth in grant funding and expansion of subspecialty programs
and has become one of the most respected academic departments of pediatrics in
the nation. Dr. Kelch also served on the UM Hospitals Executive Board and as
chief of clinical affairs from 1989-92.
Dr. Kelch has been elected to membership and held offices in numerous
professional organizations, including the American Pediatric Society, the Lawson
Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society, the American Society for Clinical Investigation, and the Society for Pediatric Research, which he serves as president. He
also served as president of the Association of Medical School Pediatric Chairmen
and was recently named chair-elect of the American Board of Pediatrics. To
these positions, he brings insight, imagination, and wisdom as he continues to be
the voice and conscience of pediatrics and academic medicine.
In recognition of his distinguished accomplishments, the Regents now name
Robert P. Kelch professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases.
Gordon L. Nordby, associate professor of biological chemistry, will retire
from active faculty status on September 30, 1994, after a career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Idaho, Professor Nordby received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D.
degrees from Stanford University in 1951, 1954, and 1959, respectively. He then
entered into postdoctoral training with Dr. Oncley at Harvard University in Boston, where he stayed until 1962. He joined the faculty of the University of


70




September Meeting, 1994


Michigan in 1962 as an assistant professor of biological chemistry and an associate research biophysicist at the Institute of Science and Technology. He was
promoted to associate professor of biological chemistry in 1968.
Professor Nordby has been a dedicated teacher over the years and has
devoted substantial effort to improving and enhancing the biochemistry course
for nursing students.  He has been a dedicated member of the University
community and has served on numerous committees. Professor Nordby also
served as assistant to the chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry from
1968-75.
Professor Nordby's most current interests have been in the physical
biochemistry of proteins, protein binding of small ions, opiate binding to cell
membranes, and computer applications to experimental design problems. He
has worked on the computer simulation of biological systems and statistical
interference. He has also designed some innovative educational programs and
has worked on database systems design and management.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Gordon L. Nordby associate professor emeritus of biological
chemistry.
Elliot S. Valenstein, professor of psychology, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 1994, after a distinguished career as a teacher, scholar, and
researcher.
Professor Valenstein earned his B.S. degree in 1949 from the City College of
New York and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees in 1953 and 1954, respectively, from
the University of Kansas. From 1955-61, he was chief of neuropsychology at the
Walter Reed Institute of Research in Washington, D.C., and from 1961-70 he was
a senior scientist at the Fels Research Institute and professor of psychology at
Antioch College. He came to the University of Michigan as professor of psychology in 1970, and he also served as chair of the Biopsychology Program from
1980-91.
A world-renowned scholar, Professor Valenstein has made major contributions to our understanding of the physiological basis of emotion and motivation
and the influence of hormones on brain and behavior. He has also written extensively on the history of somatic treatments for mental illness and is author of
more than 140 scientific articles and four books. His first book, Brain Control
(1973), inspired many students in the fields of physiological psychology and
neuroscience. His latest book, Great and Desperate Cures (1986), was widely
acclaimed and has been translated and published abroad.
Among his many honors, Professor Valenstein has been elected president of
the Comparative and Physiological Psychology Division of the American Psychological Association and a fellow at both the Center for Advanced Study in the
Behavioral Sciences and the National Humanities Center. He received the
Kenneth Craik Research Award from Cambridge University, England, and was
the 1992-93 Distinguished Senior Lecturer at the University's College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Professor Valenstein has lectured in countries
throughout the world and has been a Sigma Xi lecturer, a Grass Traveling
Lecturer in Neuroscience, and a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar.


71




September Meeting, 1994


Professor Valenstein's contributions also include service to numerous
professional and honorary societies, scientific advisory panels, and editorial
boards. He has participated in public forums on ethical and social issues in
science, including William Buckley's "Firing Line," and has worked as well with
the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical
and Behavioral Research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychologist and neuroscientist
by naming Elliot S. Valenstein professor emeritus of psychology.
Phyllis S. Weikart, associate professor of kinesiology, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1994, after a most productive career spanning 28 years.
Professor Weikart earned her B.S. degree in 1952 from Beaver College and
her M.A degree in 1957 from the University of Michigan. She joined the faculty
in 1966 as an instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1972 and
associate professor in 1986.
Active as both a player and administrator in women's field hockey, Professor Weikart served for five years as president of the U.S. Field Hockey Association. In 1979, she was inducted into the Michigan Amateur Sports Hall of Fame.
She taught a variety of sports skill classes in physical education and for many
years directed the U-M's Adult Lifestyle Program, a series of non-credit activity
classes which annually enroll some 6,000 participants.
Professor Weikart developed an expertise in rhythmic movement and folk
dance that has won her international recognition. She has published five books
and produced or directed 14 albums, audiotapes, and videotapes. Teachers from
across the country have become certified in her "Education through Movement:
Building the Foundation" program. She is also the creator of "Fitness Over
Fifty," an exercise program for older people offered without charge at two
locations in the Ann Arbor/Detroit area. Professor Weikart continues to be in demand as a keynote speaker and workshop presenter at conferences throughout
the nation.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for her contributions as
a teacher, administrator, curriculum developer, workshop leader, choreographer,
and author by naming Phyllis S. Weikart associate professor emeritus of kinesiology.
Memorial Statement
The Regents acknowledge with profound sadness the death of James J.
Gindin, Professor of English Language and Literature, who passed away on
July 30, 1994.
Born in Newark, New Jersey, on May 23, 1926, Professor Gindin served in
the U.S. Army Air Force during World War II. After the war, he received his
B.A degree from Yale University and his Ph.D. degree from Cornell University.
In 1954, he was a member of the staff of The New Yorker magazine. He came to
the University of Michigan Department of English in 1956 and became a full
professor in 1968. A dedicated and extremely popular teacher, Professor Gindin
was active in many departmental and University activities and for 25 years was
chair of the English Honors Program.


72




September Meeting, 1994


Professor Gindin had a distinguished career as a literary scholar and critic
of moder British fiction. During his long career here, he was internationally
recognized for his scholarly accomplishments and was the recipient of a Fulbright lectureship, a National Endowment for the Humanities Senior Fellowship,
and Guggenheim Fellowship. He is the author of numerous books, including
Postwar British Fiction: New Accents and Attitudes; Harvest of a Quiet Eye: The
Novels of Compassion; John Galsworthy's Life and Art: An Alien's Fortress; and
most recently, British Fiction in the 1930s: The Dispiriting Decade.
Professor Gindin's remarkable breadth of learning made him ever-ready to
learn about and read new literature. Few scholars were as widely read and as
willing and able to critique the work of their peers and of students. A summer
spent teaching in New Zealand gave him a new enthusiasm the literature of the
Antipodes. Colleagues all remember him as being exceptionally willing to take
on the burdens of committee work, to participate actively in all of the more onerous tasks of running a large department, and to provide extra help for students.
He loved teaching and learning. As we mourn the loss of this distinguished
faculty member, we extend our condolences to his wife, Joan, and two children,
James Frederic and Katherine Joan.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded
by Regent Brown, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
1994-95 Budgets
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a separately-bound book containing the University's revenue and expenditure budgets for the fiscal year
1994-95.
State Auditor General Report and Responses - Selected            State
Universities' Reporting of Enrollment and Other Higher Education
Institutional Data Inventory (HEIDI) Data
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
approved the recommendations of and the University's responses to the State
Auditor General Report - Selected State Universities' Reporting of Enrollment
and Other Higher Education Institutional Data Inventory (HEIDI) Data.
Alternative Asset Investments
Executive Vice President Womack presented a recommendation for a
change in the asset allocation policy for the University Endowment Fund and the
Long-Term Portfolio (details can be found in the Regents Communication).
Following some discussion, Regent McFee moved that:
1)  The asset allocation policy for the University Endowment Fund
and the Long-Term Portfolio be amended, setting the target ratio
for equities to fixed income investments at 75/25 within a range of
65/35 to 85/15;
2)  Alternative fixed income investments be viewed as equity investments, due to their risk and return characteristics; and


73




September Meeting, 1994


3)  The policy for alternative asset investments be amended, removing
the limits for the individual categories and setting an overall 25
percent target for alternative asset investments.
Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Alternative Asset Investments
Executive Vice President Womack described the proposed actions with
regard to alternative asset investments, noting that at the current time only 11
percent of the target of 25 percent of the value of the University Endowment
Fund had actually been invested in alternative assets. Regent Varner moved the
following University Endowment Fund commitments, pending a favorable
review of the documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's
office:
1)  Up to $10 million in Oak Investment Partners VI, Limited
Partnership;
2)  $20 million in Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund V, Limited Partnership; and
3)  $25 million in a Fisher Francis Trees & Watts, Inc. "clone"
account.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regents Deitch and McGowan were away from the table when the vote was
taken.
Executive Vice President Womack called the Regents' attention to a listing
of all of the alternative asset commitments of the University Endowment Fund
as of June 30, 1994, that was appended to the Regents Communication, noting
that as the number of these commitments increases, the risk decreases. Regent
Power suggested that the Regents receive a report on these partnerships periodically as they mature, with a column indicating their capital distributions.
Acacia Housing Fund III
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the University
would not be proceeding with a previously authorized $10.0 million investment
in Acacia Housing Fund III, due to a proposed change in the fund's strategy and
the timing of the closing.
Weber Real Estate
The Regents were informed that Government Lot 4, Section 17, T47N,
R30W, Republic Township, Marquette County, Michigan, bequeathed to the University in the will of Helen F. Weber in 1973, had been sold at a price of $11,000.
471-473 Village Oaks, Ann Arbor
The Regents were informed that the University had accepted an offer of
$235,500 for its property located at 471-473 Village Oaks in Ann Arbor, and that
the net proceeds had been credited to the School of Music's Donald R. Shepherd
Chair in Conducting.


74




September Meeting, 1994


The University of Michigan Visitors Center Project
Mr. Douglas Hanna, university architect, gave a presentation on improvements that could be made to the exterior facade of the existing Student Activities
Building, to which the previously approved Visitors Center will be attached. This
was done in response to the Regents' request when they had approved the design
and budget for this project in April 1994. Following the presentation, Regent
Power moved issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract,
provided that the bids are within the approved budget. Regent Brown seconded
the motion. Regent Power commented that the proposed improvements would
enhance the appearance of the project. Following some discussion, the vote was
taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
State Special Maintenance Projects
On motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with infrastructure maintenance projects with
state funding that the University had received as a part of the legislature's
"Special Initiative for State Universities." Regent Brown was away from the
table when the vote was taken.
Ann Arbor Township Sanitary Sewer Line Easement
Regent Waters moved that the executive vice president and chief financial
officer grant a sewer line easement to Ann Arbor Township, as described in the
Regents Communication. Regent McFee seconded the motion. Regent Baker
inquired whether the University would retain access to the sewer without cost if
at some time in the future, its properties were to be developed. Executive Vice
President Womack responded that he would determine whether that is the case.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously. Regent
Brown was away from the table when the vote was taken. Regent Baker stated
that he had supported the motion on the condition that the University would
have access to the easement in the future.
City of Ann Arbor Huron Parkway Bikepath Easement
Regent Baker observed that easements ought not to be granted in perpetuity, but rather should have a time limit. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Waters, the Regents unanimously approved authorizing the executive
vice president and chief financial officer to grant three small easements and a
temporary construction permit, as described in the Regents Communication, to
the City of Ann Arbor for construction of the Huron Parkway bikepath. Regent
Brown was away from the table when the vote was takeno
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Support Services Facility
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the total revised budget for the UM-Dearborn Campus
Support Services Facility, and award of the construction contract to AIM Systems, Inc.


75




September Meeting, 1994


Renovations
The Regents next considered a request for approval of the following projects:
1) Replacement of selected Mott Hospital air handling units; 2) the UMH Mott
Catheterization Lab power upgrade project; 3) the University Hospital Main
Entrance Project; 4) Medical Science I Building chiller and electrical power
upgrade; 5) Medical Science I building remodeling for the Robert Wood Johnson
Clinical Scholars Program, Medical School classrooms, and infrastructure
renovations; and 6) Northwood V Stone Road replacement. Regarding project
#5, Executive Vice President Womack pointed out that the name of the Clinical
Scholars Program had been spelled incorrectly on the Regents Communication.
He also requested that an item in the supplemental agenda, regarding funding
for the Medical Science I remodeling and renovation project, be considered
concurrently with the above projects. He then called on Mr. Hanna, who gave a
presentation describing the University Hospital Main Entrance Project.
Mr. Hanna observed that in the entry to the Hospital atrium, there is a lot
of air infiltration caused by the design of the vestibules. He described the
proposed solution, which would involve replacement of the automatic doors with
two sets of automatic revolving doors that would prevent outside air from coming
into the building. During the discussion that followed, several Regents pointed
out that this is a serious problem, for which the expense of the various alternatives should be secondary to choosing the one that will be most appropriate for
the function at hand.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the renovation projects, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Medical Science I Remodeling and Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following Resolution, authorizing the Robert Wood
Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, Medical School classrooms and infrastructure renovations as an approved project in the Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical
Service Plan Refunding Bonds:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDNG RESOUTIN AUHORIZING R OTHE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, on September 24 1993, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Issuer") adopted its Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Hospital Revenue
Bonds and Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds, and Providing for Other Matters Relating
Thereto which Resolution was amended on December 17, 1993, and February 18, 1994 (as
amended, the "Resolution"); and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable to further amend the Resolution as provided
herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan,
as follows:


76




September Meeting, 1994


1.  The second "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to include within the definition and description of the "Projects", the remodeling and
renovation of Medical Science I and the acquisition and installation of furnishings
and equipment related thereto.
2.  As amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed. All
resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Reassignment of University's         Ownership     Interest    in Intellectual
Property
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved reassignment of an invention entitled
"Self-Centering and Zero Flush Mechanism for Hood Fitting and Decklid Fitting
Processes in Auto-Body Assembly (TMO file #855) to the inventors, Jixn Sha,
Dariusz Ceglarek, and Jianjun Shi. Regent Waters was away from the table when
the vote was taken.
Because the inventors are also University employees, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Jixin Sha, M.E.;
Dariusz Ceglarek, M.S.; and Jianjun Shi, Ph.D.
2.   Contract terms include payment to the University of 15 percent of total consideration received by Jixin Sha, Dariusz Ceglarek, and Jianjun Shi, and no use of
University facilities or services without the appropriate approvals.
3.   Jixin Sha's, Dariusz Ceglarek's, and Jianjun Shi's pecuniary interests arise
from their right to receive royalties when this technology is licensed. This is in
lieu of participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University in
accordance with University policy.
Recommendations for Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved several recommendations for appointments to medical
staff membership.
The meeting then recessed from 2:55 to 4:10 p.m.
Public Comments
Nobody had signed up to address the Regents this month.
Revision   of Regents' Bylaw       Section   1.14 (Regental and Executive/
Senior Officer Conflict of Interest Policy)
President Duderstadt observed that in July the state legislature had modified the state's conflict of interest act, and this had led some board members to
call for a re-examination of the University's own conflict of interest policies to reaffirm the University's values and fundamental principles. This re-examination
had led to a proposal to amend the University's conflict of interest policy.


77




September Meeting, 1994


General Counsel Cole explained that the legislature's actions had addressed
a matter regarding a Regent's membership in a professional corporation on
which the Regents' conflict of interest policy is silent, and the proposed revision
to that policy addresses the change in the state law.
President Duderstadt read the proposed revision, which consists of minor
editorial changes and the addition of the following paragraph:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in state law, it shall be a
conflict of interest for a Regent in any capacity to be employed by or associated
with a professional service firm which directly or indirectly provides services to
the University. In accordance with Op.Atty.Gen. 1979, No. 5489, in the event that
a firm is providing services to the University prior to one of its employees becoming a Regent, it may complete all work in progress for the University but may not
be engaged for any additional work until the Regent is no longer employed by or
associated with the professional service firm.
Regent McGowan moved adoption of the proposed amendment to Bylaw
Section 1.14; Regent Power seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Ms. Cole stated that existing
contracts with a professional service firm of which a newly elected Regent is a
member could continue, but no new contracts could be entered into.
Regent McFee observed that in her opinion, the current policy already
covers the situation referred to in the proposed amendment, and that the amendment would be merely a clarification of the existing policy. Regent Baker commented that the proposed amendment was not thoroughly thought through and
needs further study before being adopted. He moved that the matter be laid on
the table until January 1, 1995. That motion failed for lack of a second.
Regent Deitch called the question; Regent Baker stated that he intended to
abstain from voting for the reasons already noted. Regent Power noted that the
desired outcome is to make clear that the ethical and moral standard set forth in
the bylaw on conflict of interest adopted unanimously in April 1993 would be
maintntaed as it was prior to the legislature's amending of the state's conflict of
interest law in July 1994. He said that the proposed amendment is "reasoned,...precise, and it reacts to a specific piece of legislation that was adopted by the
legislature and corrects a loophole introduced into the state conflict of interest
law by the legislature."
Regent Baker responded that the amendment also has a political
component.
Regent McGowan seconded Regent Deitch's motion to call the question. The
vote on Regent McGowan's original motion to approve the proposed amendments to Regents' Bylaw 1.14 was then taken and it was approved, with Regents
Brown, Deitch, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regents
Baker and McFee abstaining. The text of the revised bylaw follows:


78




September Meeting, 1994


Sec. 1.14. Regental and Executive/Senior Officer Conflict of Interest
Policy
Regents and executive officers of the University of Michigan, and the senior
officers of the University at Dearborn and at Flint, shall at all times act in a
manner consistent with their fiduciary responsibilities to the University and shall
exercise particular care that no detriment to the University results from conflicts
between their interests and those of the University. If a Regent or an
executive/senior officer believes that he or she may have a conflict of interest, the
Regent or executive/senior officer shall promptly and fully disclose the conflict to
the secretary of the Board of Regents and shall refrain from participating in any
way in the matter to which the conflict relates until the conflict question has been
resolved. The minutes of a Regents' meeting where a disclosure of conflict or possible conflict of interest is made shall reflect the disclosure and that the Regent or
executive/senior officer having such abstained from participation in the matter.
A Regent or executive/senior officer is considered to have a conflict of interest
when the Regent or executive/senior officer or any of his or her family or associates, either (i) has an existing or potential financial or other interest which impairs or might appear to impair the Regent's or executive/senior officer's
independence of judgment in the discharge of responsibilities to the University, or
(ii) may receive a material, financial, or other benefit from knowledge of information confidential to the University. The "family" of a Regent or executive/ senior
officer includes his or her spouse, parents, siblings, children and, if living in the
same household and sharing expenses, other individuals. An "associate" of a
Regent or executive/ senior officer includes any person, trust, organization, or
enterprise in or with which the Regent or executive/ senior officer has knowledge
that he or she or any member of his or her family (i) is a director, officer,
employee, member, partner, or trustee; or (ii) has a financial interest that
represents 5% or more of his or her assets or any interest that enables him or her,
acting alone or in conjunction with others, to exercise control or to influence policy
significantly, or (iii) has any other material association.
The secretary shall consult with the president and general counsel regarding
all conflict questions of which the secretary is informed and shall report regularly
to the Board of Regents regarding any unresolved conflict questions. This policy
statement is to be interpreted and applied in a manner that will best serve the
interests of the University. In some cases it may be determined that after full
disclosure to those concerned the University's interests are best served by
participation by the Regent or executive/senior officer despite the conflict. The
University will assist the Board in determining if such proposed participation
violates the state conflict of interest laws. The general counsel will provide a
Regent or executive/senior officer, upon his or her request, a written opinion as to
whether a conflict of interest situation exists.
This policy is in addition to any obligations imposed on a Regent or
executive/senior officer by the state law on conflicts of interest, P.A. 1968, Nos. 317
and 318, as amended.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in state law, it shall be a
conflict of interest for a Regent in any capacity to be employed by or associated
with a professional service firm which directly or indirectly provides services to
the University. In accordance with Op.Atty.Gen. 1979, No. 5489, in the event that
a firm is providing services to the University prior to one of its employees becoming a Regent, it may complete all work in progress for the University but may not
be engaged for any additional work until the Regent is no longer employed by or
associated with the professional service firm.
The secretary shall distribute annually a copy of this policy statement to each
Regent and executive/senior officer.


79




September Meeting, 1994


Resolution in Honor of Robert Forman
President Duderstadt called on Regent Brown, who read the following
resolution:
The Regents of the University of Michigan gratefully salute and
commend Robert Go Forman as he concludes a distinguished,
28-year career as executive director of the University of Michigan
Alumni Association.
Bob Forman earned his B.A. degree from Michigan State
University in 1953 and his M.P.A. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1959. He first joined the University of Michigan staff in
1955 and then left in 1957 to join the newly-formed Bendix Systems
Division in Ann Arbor. In 1964, he returned as associate director of
the Alumni Association. Two years later, he became its executive
director, embarking on a career in alumni work that is unparalleled,
both in terms of its accomplishments and its contributions to the
profession.
The University of Michigan has been the grateful beneficiary of
the efforts of this talented, dedicated champion of alumni service to
higher education. Bob Forman has introduced countless innovations
in  alumni programming, has written    extensively about his
experiences in alumni administration, and has served prominently
in national and regional associations of his peers, which have
honored him on numerous occasions with their most prestigious
awards.
The  University's alumni association  has also prospered
tremendously during Bob's tenure. It has built its own campus center
from  contributions, has developed a far flung alumni camp
operation, publishes an award-winning alumni magazine, has
established over 200 alumni clubs in every corner of the state and the
world, and operates an extensive travel and continuing education
program. And each of these programmatic achievements is carefully
crafted to be supportive of the philosophy and goals of the University.
Bob Forman has been a true leader in his profession and has
been a person who has made a difference at this university. His wit
and humor have enlivened countless meetings and ceremonies. He
has been a friend to alumni everywhere and a valued colleague of the
Regents, officers, and deans of the University.
The Regents now extend their best wishes to this rare, wonderful
leader who has served so many so well, and now name Robert G.
Forman executive director emeritus of the Alumni Association of the
University of Michigano
The motion was approved by acclamation.


80




September Meeting, 1994


Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:45 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on October 20 and 21, 1994. Regents' expenses for
the months of July and August, 1994, totalled $1,121.45 and $1,394.45, respectively.
^^(Ut^^x~p


Harold R. Johnsbn
Interim Secretary of the University


81




OCTOBER MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 20, 1994
The Regents met at 10:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan,
Power, Varner, and Waters.  Secretary Johnson was also present, as were
Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal. Chancellors Nelms and Renick were
absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Varner, who made the following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on October 20, 1994, for the purposes of consulting with
our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation [Sec. 8(e)]; and considering material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of written opinions from
the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting resumed in public session at 1:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters. Secretary Johnson was also present, as
were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal, and Chancellors Nelms and Renick.
Ernst & Young Management Report and Responses
Executive Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Bob Emde and Mr.
Harold Miller, of Ernst & Young, to present the report of the University's
external auditors. Mr. Emde stated that the firm's report, which had been
completed on August 17, 1994, expressed an unqualified opinion on the
University's financial statements, which had been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.  In addition, the firm  had also
conducted audits of the University's constituent units, each one of which had
resulted in the expression of unqualified opinions.
Mr. Emde observed that the management letter noted that the firm's review
of the University's internal control structure and policies and procedures
disclosed no material weaknesses, and that the control procedures that are in
place throughout the University continue to be very sound and very well thought
out. The recommendations in the management letter are intended to be
"constructive suggestions" for improvements in procedures and policies."


83




October Meeting, 1994


Mr. Emde concluded by stating that the firm had received excellent cooperation from University staff, and that it appreciated the opportunity to serve as the
University's independent auditors. Regent Baker observed that the Regents are
always available to meet personally with the auditors if they have any concerns
they wish to disclose in private. Mr. Emde responded that the firm did not have
any concerns at the present time that warranted such a discussion.
Presentation/Discussion: Technology Transfer and Economic Development
Vice President Neal stated that the purpose of the discussion was to deepen
the dialogue about the University's activities in support of economic development
and technology transfer. He described recent events in which the University is
involved that are designed to foster these activities. Vice President Neal defined
"technology transfer" as the conveyance of information, know-how, materials,
patents, or copyrights from academe to industry. He also noted that the Regents'
bylaws and policies express three purposes in support of technology transfer
activities: to provide services to faculty and staff; to facilitate the efficient
transfer of knowledge and technology from the campus to the private sector in
service of the public interest; and to attract resources for the support of University programs. He also noted that the president had appointed an economic
development council within the University of Michigan to serve as a focal point
for future planning and action.
Vice President Neal turned to Executive Vice President Womack, who said
that the presentation would focus on two areas: the Technology Management
Office, as an example of a university-wide service which supports this mission;
and the Office of Technology Transfer in the College of Engineering, as an
example of a unit-based effort. He introduced Mr. Jay Hartford, executive
director of the Office of Technology Transfer in the College of Engineering, who
also chairs the newly-constituted University of Michigan President's Economic
Development Council; and Mr. Robert Robb, director of the Technology Management Office.
Mr. Hartford gave a slide presentation describing current and planned
technology transfer activities within the College of Engineering. Mr. Robb then
described the mission, role, objectives, and current activities of the Technology
Management Office and led a discussion of the challenges and opportunities
related to increasing the amount of technology transfer that emanates from the
University of Michigan.
Following the presentation, Executive Vice President Womack reported that
an advisory panel has been established, similar to the Investment Advisory
Committee, with the objective of trying to attract venture capitalists to support
the University's technology transfer efforts. Regent McFee pointed out that
these efforts emphasize the importance of the University's role in enhancing
economic development in the state.
Following further discussion, Mr. Hartford described the President's
Economic Development Council, a coordinating body of 14 faculty members and
administrators whose overall goal is to help the University realize its potential
for fostering regional economic development. A progress report is due to the


84




October Meeting, 1994


president and executive officers in which the council will outline its vision and its
strategy for achieving its goal. Regent Power suggested that the progress report
be presented to the Regents as well.
1995-96 State Budget Request
Provost Whitaker observed that over the years, the proportion of General
Fund revenue derived from state appropriations as compared to tuition has been
steadily declining, so that at the current time the General Fund consists of 37
percent state appropriation, 53 percent tuition, and 10 percent from other
sources,
Over the past seven years, there has been a decline in the real value of the
state appropriation of nearly $36 million. The 1995-96 state budget request will
include an additional $17.9 million to fund half of that loss, plus an additional
$9.0 million to cover the expected increase in the Higher Education Price Index
(HEPI) index of 3.2 percent, for a total requested increase of $26.9 million. If
granted, this amount would increase the General Fund budget by 3.8 percent.
Following some discussion, Regent McFee moved approval of the 1995-96
State Budget Requests, as submitted, for all three campuses. Regent Waters
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Medical Center East Medical Campus Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Richard Rigterink, of
Johnson Johnson & Roy, the University's planning consultant, to present a
proposed master plan for the Medical Center's East Medical Campus.
Mr. Rigterink used a number of maps and diagrams to describe the site's
location, physical characteristics, and size in relation to existing developed
campus sites. He stated that the East Medical Campus would be divided into
zones, with the "Central Zone", located near the corner of Plymouth and
Earhardt Roads, to be developed as Phase I and devoted solely to ambulatory
care clinics. The development of future phases would depend on changes in the
health care industry in future years.
Following the presentation, Mr. Rigterink, Executive Vice President
Womack, Dean Bole, and Mr. Forsyth responded to questions and comments
from the Regents about the development of the East Medical Campus. Then,
there being no further discussion, Regent Baker moved approval of the East
Medical Campus Master Plan. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
1995-96 State Budget Request, UM-Dearborn
President Duderstadt called on Chancellor Renick, who observed that the
1995-96 UM-Dearborn budget request was similar to that of last year, with the
two highest priorities being an inflation component of $615,000 (3.2 percent) and
funding for the Environmental Education Center of $1.2 million.


85




October Meeting, 1994


1995-96 State Budget Request, UM-Flint
President Duderstand then called on Chancellor Nelms who stated that an
important priority for the Flint campus is to work on retaining students through
graduation, which is a complex undertaking that involves resources in a number
of different areas.      The incremental request of $1,982,000 is directed toward
student retention efforts ($150,000); reducing reliance on part-time faculty
($250,000); diversity enhancement ($100,000); enhanced academic programs
($300,000); equipment/libary acquisitions and operations ($350,000); collaboration  with   K-12 and      other higher education        institutions ($100,000); and        3.2
percent inflation increase for salary and non-salary operations ($732,000); as
part of a four-year phased approach to position the UM-Flint at the midpoint of
class IIA institutions in the state.
President Duderstadt pointed out that the previous vote on the state budget
request had encompassed the requests from            the Dearborn and Flint campuses.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes for the September 1994 meeting.
Consent Agenda
Reports.      Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations, and a quarterly
report on non-competitive purchases over $2,000 for the period July 1 - September 30, 1994. Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and
summaries of a selection of current research for the month of September 1994.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of voluntary support as of September 30, 1994.
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowship, College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts.....9,490
Aeroquip, Maumee, Ohio
for  support in  the  School of Business  Adm inistration..........................................................................................7,000
Robert G. Aldrich, Ann Arbor
200 shares of American Cyanamid common stock for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic
in   th e   S ch ool  of  D en tistry........................................................................................................................................................ 19,825
Jay & Maryanne Alix Foundation, Southfield
for   support   in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 14,200
American Association of Spinal Cord Injury Psychologists and Social Workers, Flushing, NY
for  research   in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical School,
and  the  Institute  for  Social  R esearch...........................................................................................................................133,534
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for scholarships and  fellowships in  the  College  of Pharmacy.......................................................................29,958
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for  research   in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................. 11,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for   em p loyee   m atch in g   gifts..................................................................................................................................................6,242
Anonymous Donor
1,700 shares of United American Healthcare common stock for the Wade H. McCree
P rofessorsh ip   in   th e   L aw   S chool........................................................................................................................................33,894
Arkwright Foundation, Waltham, Massachusetts
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration
and  for  support  in   the   College  of Engineering........................................................................................................5,000


86




October Meeting, 1994


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School.....34,750
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for  su pport  in   the   M edical  School.......................................................................................................................................15,000
Association Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, Geneva, Switzerland
for the College of Engineering Acquisition Fund................................................................................................ 124,985
Wilma Becknell Trust
for the Public Health Merit Scholarship Fund in the School of Public Health................................6,445
Robert Hunt Berry, Ann Arbor
192 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for research in the Medical
S c h o o l..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 9 7 6 7
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................20,000
Frances Willison Bishop
for the Dr. Clayton & Emma Elizabeth Willison Fund in the Medical School............................292,484
Elizabeth Broomfield, Bronxville, New York
for the Elizabeth Broomfield Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy..............25,020
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................................... 8,766
Helen B. Burnham Estate
for the Robert G. Brown & Donna B. Brown Scholarship in the College of
L iterature,   Science,   and    the   A rts..................................................................................................................................... 123,848
Cadence Design Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for computer-aided design research in the College of Engineering.........................................................28,917
Howard E. Case, Alanson
for the Howard E. Case Donor Pooled Income Fund in the School of Education.......................10,000
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Taipei, Taiwan
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research...............................................................7,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Chicago Community Trust - Searle Scholarship Program, Medical School....................15,000
Chin-un Chang, Tai-chung, Taiwan
for the John R. Griffith Fund in the School of Public Health.....................................................................50,000
William C. Chapman, Windsor, Vermont
11,600 shares of Syntex Corporation common stock for the William & Wilma
C hapm   an    D onor  Pooled    Incom e  Fund.........................................................................................................................277,675
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for chemical engineering support, College of Engineering and employee matching gifts........5,575
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering, for the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts..............................................................................100,790
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................6,000
Edwin H. Conger, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................10,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
600 shares of Atlantic Richfield common stock for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr.,
Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration and for the
U n iv ersity   L ib rary..........................................................................................................................................................................3 2,0 8 1
Core Industries, Bloomfied Hills
for  the  C ancer  C enter   in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................5,000
Simon A. Courtade Estate
for the Graduate School Fellowship Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
o f   G rad u ate   S tu d ies.......................................................................................................................................................................8 1,3 8 8
Katherine Q. Cox, Flint
400 shares of American Cyanamid common stock for the Lawrence E. Quinn
M  em  orial Scholarship      in  the  School of M  usic...........................................................................................................38,725
D.L.P., Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowship in the Medical School..................................................10,000
Gladys E. Davis Trust
for  the  G ladys  E. D avis  Endow    ed  Scholarship.........................................................................................................50,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for  research     in   the   M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 16,598
Beata Hasley Decker, Wheaton, Illinois
200 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for support in the College
of  L iterature,  Science,   and    the   A rts.................................................................................................................................. 10,013


87




October Meeting, 1994


John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering........................................................................................................   15,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for the Delta Dental Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry.............................................................8,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering.....................................21,000
Shirley Distler Estate
for  support    in   the   M edical  School...................................................................................................................................50,000
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for Tennis Facilities in the Department of Athletics.........................................................7,500
Robert J. Donia, Fort Worth, Texas
for the Center for Russian & East European Studies in the College of Literature,
S cien ce   an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................5,00 0
Chester A. Doty Trust
for research in the Medical School.....................................495,000
Russell L. Epker Charitable Foundation Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................0,000
John M. Evans, Northville
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, UM-Dearborn...............................................            5,000
Ford Motor Company Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and for two-stroke engine research,
U M  -D  e a rb o rn......................................................................................................................................................................................6 0,0 0 0
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Control Seminar, College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...............172,611
Stephen E. Frank, Juno Beach, Florida
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration
and for support in the College of Engineering............................................................................................................5,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for unrestricted support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 5,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the Graduate School Fellowship program in the Horace H. Rackham School
of  G ra d u ate   S tu d ies.................................................................................................................................................................... 1 10,0 00
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering Fund...........................................................1,000,000
Helen Glauber Estate
for  support    in   the   M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 149,700
Georgia Campbell Haugh, Ann Arbor
for the Robert F. Haugh Prize in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the Herrick Faculty Support Fund in Manufacturing in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering...............................................................................................1,000,000
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts.........25,143
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School.............................................................................................................55,000
Carole Holmes, Ann Arbor
565 shares of Kellogg Company common stock for the Carol E. Holmes Fund for
Behavioral Pediatrics in the Medical School..............................................................................................................31,252
Honeywell, Inc., Farmington Hills
for  the   C.  S. M ott  G olf  C lassic  B enefit........................................................................................................................... 50,000
John Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research      in   the  College  of  E ngineering.....................................................................................................................6,808
Daniel F. Hopp, St. Joseph
for scholarships and fellowships in the Department of Athletics.................................................................5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................11,600
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 7,500
Information Technology Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Robert F. Berland Scholarship Fund in the School of Education........................................ 100,000
Norman Jacobson, Scarsdale, New York
for  support    in   the  D ivision   of  K inesiology................................................................................................................... 5,000
Albin I. Johnson Estate
for the Albin I. Johnson Concert Band Scholarship in the School of Music................................. 100,000
Bazley and Roena Johnson Estate
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................................................................................335,000


88




October Meeting, 1994


Frank Norman Johnston Trust
for the Frank N. Johnston Scholarship Fund, School of Business Administration...................40,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School..............................................................................................................................  110,829
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for  research     in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................22,559
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Junior Year in Freiburg Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........20,000
Ayman I. Kayssi, Ann Arbor
for computer-aided design research in the College of Engineering............................................................6,300
Edythe S. Kennedy Trust
for the Donald B. Kennedy Engineering Scholarship Fund, College of Engineering................30,418
Robert Kirby, Augusta, Georgia
for  support   in  the  School of N   atural Resources........................................................................................................5,000
Sylvia M. Kosiolek, M.D., Grand Blanc
for  support   in   the  M edical School.........................................................................................................5,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for History of Art research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................15,000
John D. Kutsche, Trenton
for the Kutsche Memorial Chair in Internal Medicine in the Medical School................................25,000
Lee Foundation, Singapore
for  support      in   the   School  of M u sic..................................................................................................................................... 17,000
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for   th e   S ch ool   of   M u sic..................................................................................................................................................................6,7 5 0
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research     in   the   M edical  S chool........................................................................................................................................8,750
Richard U. Light, M.D., Kalamazoo
for the Winifred U. Light Memorial in the Medical School......................................................................... 100,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
and  for  the  M acrom   olecular   Research      C enter.............................................................................................................5,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................... 100,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the Maas Scholarship in the School of Business Administration, the
Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Lupus Research Fund in the Medical School, the
Maas Foundation Engineering MJMI Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
and    for  support  in   the   School  of  M usic...........................................................................................................................32,750
Alexander F. MacKinnon, Pasadena, California
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law              School.................................................................................5,000
Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc., Findlay, Ohio
for   em ployee    m atchin g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 50,376
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research     in   th e  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 9,750
R. Gordon Mathews & Associates, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................30,000
McGraw      Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Max McGraw Professorship of Corporate Environmental Management
in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources.....................................................300,000
Meadowbrook, Inc., Insurance Corporate Headquarters, Southfield
for  scholarships    in  the  D epartm  ent  of Athletics.....................................................................................................10,500
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies..............................................................700,000
Merck & Co., Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering...............................................................................10,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
400 shares of Crestar Financial Corporation common stock for the Robert A.
Baumgartner Memorial Fund in the Department of Athletics...................................................................19,175
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,500
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for  the  M ary  E. M  ulholland   M  em  orial Fund...........................................................................................................414,471
James M. Mullendore, Jr., Gowen
for the Staley S. Kemp Scholarship Fund in the Division of Kinesiology.............................................5,000


89




October Meeting, 1994


Alberto A. Munoz II, Edinburg, Texas
for the Alberto A. Munoz II and Sharon Munoz Endowment Fund in the Law School...... 100,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.............................................................................................................................. 60 499
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for the NBD Assistant Professorship in the School of Business Administration, for
Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics, and for employee matching gifts........202,364
NFL Charities, New York, New York
for the Stanley S. Kemp Scholarship Fund in the Division of Kinesiology.........................................5,000
National Geographic Society, Washington, D.C.
for  the  M useum     of Anthropology........................................................................................................................................5,330
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research    in   the   M edical  School......................................................................................................................................7,500
Ann Newman, Bloomfield Hills
3,000 shares of OIS Optical Imaging common stock for the William                 Davidson
Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration..................................................................19,688
PFRA Charities, Colleyvill, Texas
for the Stanley S. Kemp Scholarship Fund in the Division of Kinesiology.......................................10,000
Charles Pemberton Trust
for the Charles and Larue Pemberton Nursing Scholarship and the Charles and
Larue Pemberton Health Care Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint.............................50,000
Pharmacia Biotech AB, Uppsala, Sweden
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 12,180
Picker International, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................22,500
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 12,500
H. Marvin Pollard Trust
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................48,249
Pontiac Fire Fighters Union Good and Welfare Fund, Pontiac
for burn research and education in the Medical School....................................................................................10,000
Duncan 0. Poth, San Antonio, Texas
218,637 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Duncan 0. & Ella M.
Poth Distinguished Endowed Professorship in Dermatology in the Medical School.........2,000,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Chemical Engineering Fellowship, the Chemical
Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship, and the Chemical Engineering
Minority Convertible Loan Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................8,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................6,000
Rosenstiel Foundation, New York, New York
for  su pp ort  in   the   L aw   S ch ool.......................................................................................000...................................................... 10,000
Olga Roth Estate
for  the  Laurence   &   O lga  R oth   Scholarship.................................................................................................................20,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for  ophthalm   ology  research   in  the  M edical School...............................................................................................14,990
Edward I. Schalon, St. Joseph
2,200 shares of First Michigan Bank Corporation common stock and a cash
gift for chemistry education support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research
in   th e   M ed ical  S ch ool..............................................................................................................................................................  10 2,4 50
George H. Schiff Estate
for the George H. Schiff Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......................122,028
John Butler Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
2,000 shares of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock for the John
Butler  Schw   em m    Fund  in   the  Law   School..................................................................................................................59,750
Donald R. Shepherd, Sonoma, California
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial for Cancer Research in the Medical School.....................9,500
Irene Shipman Estate
102,224 shares of various corporate common stocks and municipal bonds for the
Irene    G.  Shipm an   Scholarship........................................................................................................................................3,237,235
Siemens-Bendix Automotive Electronics, Lp., Newport News, Virgina
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice, UM-Dearborn.............................................25,000
Leonard N. R. Simons
for  support  in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Gordon H. Sindecuse Estate
for the Sindecuse Dental Museum          in the School of Dentistry.........................................................  79,777


90




October Meeting, 1994


Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School.................9,345
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for mathematics scholarships and other support in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts and for support of the School of Business Administration.....................209,936
Robert Sosnick, Bloomfield
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration......5,000
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
for the Southeast Asia Photo Archive Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation Book Fund at the University Library..........5,024
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for   the   U niversity   of  M ichigan-F lint..................................................................................................................................5,115
Texaco, Inc., White Plains, New York
for  research  in  the  School  of  Public  H ealth...................................................................................................................5,000
Time Warner, Inc., Executive Offices, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000
UAW Local 599, Flint
for the  UAW   Local 599/Karen  W allis Labor Book  Fund....................................................................................5000
Paul Ungrodt, Jr., Ann Arbor
for golf course  restoration  in  the  Departm ent of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for  research   in   the   M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 12,500
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for  the  A lum nae  Council  Scholarship   Fund..................................................................................................................6,000
Upjohn Company Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration...................................................7,500
Jessie Vielhnetti, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
180 shares of Peninsula Financial Corporation common stock for the Class of 1931
Engineers' Scholarship  Fund  in  the  College  of Engineering........................................................................10,800
Harvey A. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Harvey A. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering.......................................................5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for  research   in   the   M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 30,0 00
W. Gerald Warren, Grosse Pointe Shores
265 shares of Mackinac Financial Corporation common stock for support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Law School.............................................................59,217
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for scholarships, fellowships, and research in the Colleges of Literature, Science and
the Arts and Pharmacy and in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......... 174,000
G. Walter Woodworth Trust
for the Robert Rodkey Endowed Scholarship, School of Business Administration.................100,000
Clyde Wu Trust
for the Helen Wu Campus Orchestra Fund and other support in the School of Music..........32,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
John P. Crecine, Atlanta, Georgia
238 volumes of materials collected during the years of 1946-1974 from the Office of the
President for the Sumner and Laura Foster Library
Kozo Sasaki, Detroit
1,973 35-mm slides of Japanese art objects and monuments, Department of History of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Vivian K. Babuts, De Witt, New York             Margaret 0. Massialas
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield                 The Ritz-Carlton, Dearborn
John Castle, Birmingham                         Rosalyn Saltz, Detroit
Martha Feldman, Ann Arbor                       Nancy Spilker, Dearborn
Jane E. Fellrath                                Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Joseph E. Green                                 Survey Instrument Systems, Inc., Walled Lake
Lynne M. Lawrence                               Mary L. Varterasian, Birmingham


91




October Meeting, 1994


Provost's Reports.        Provost Whitaker submitted        personnel actions,
personnel reports, and retirement memoirs.        No deaths were reported to the
Regents this month, and there were no actions with respect to degrees.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1995
Sweet-Jemmott, Loretta, Ph.D., Professor of Nursing
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1994
Schaal, Thomas C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint, three-year term
Trierweiler, Steven J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Beaudoin, Allan R., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, returned to active status,
one-year term, January 1, 1995
Brandwin, Marvin A-, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, returned to active status,
one-year term, August 1, 1994
Buning, Harm, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, returned to active status, fall term
Castelli, Walter A, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy, returned to active status, one-year term
Cooper, Edward H., reappointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Law School, fall term
Dabich, Lyubica, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, returned to active status, one-year
term, July 1, 1994
DeMuth, George R., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, returned to
active status, nine-month term, October 1, 1994
Fleming, Robben W., President Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Law, returned to active
status, university year
Gold, Martin G., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Research Scientist, returned to active
status, one-year term, July 1, 1994
Good, Armin E., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, returned to active status, one-year
term, April 20, 1994
Johe, Herbert W., Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, returned to
active status, fall term
Knott, Anne P., reappointed Assistant Dean and Director of Development and Alumni Relations,
Law School, three-year term, October 1, 1994
Mikkelsen, William M., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, returned to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1994
Sands, Richard H., Professor Emeritus of Physics and Research Scientist Emeritus, returned to
active status, one-year term, July 1, 1994
Sawyer, Thomas M., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, returned to active status,
one-year term
Sullivan, Joseph E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, returned to active status, academic year


92




October Meeting, 1994


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Bloom, Thomas A., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Theatre Department, UM-Flint, three-year term
Keller-Cohen, Deborah, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, also appointed Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education,
five-year term
Was, Gary S., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Materials Science
and Engineering, without tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Nuclear
Engineering, four-year eight-month term, November 1, 1994
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Guerra, Nancy G., Associate Professor of Psychology, research leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEC DMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
Emmanouil, Ioannis, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
three-year term
Jackson, James S., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of
Public Health, also appointed the Daniel Katz Collegiate Professor of Psychology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term
Mitchell, Joyce M., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
also appointed, Assistant Dean for Student and Minority Affairs, Medical School,
October 21, 1994
Nica, Alexandru M., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
three-year term
Rowe, Nathaniel H., Jr., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor
of Oral Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, also appointed the William R. Mann
Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, five-year term
Presidential Professorships. The Regents approved the establishment
of the Presidential Professors Program, effective October 1, 1994.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval.
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Ross, Marlon B., retroactive appointment, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995, substitution for
Bruce W. Frier
Michigan League Board of Governors
Daniel, Linda L., retroactive appointment, May 1, 1994-April 30, 1997, vice Phyllis A Valentine,
term expired
Gerbaski, Stephen S., retroactive appointment, May 1, 1994-April 30, 1995, vice Deborah J.
Oakley, resigned


93




October Meeting, 1994


Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1. 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Soo, Lydia M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School of Art
Burke, Christopher J., M.S., Lecturer in Art
Kapetan, Michael R., M.F.A, Lecturer in Art
School of Dentistry
Mooney, David J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and Assistant
Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
College of Engineering
Adriaens, Peter, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Lee, Sang W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1997
Linder, James H., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Law School
Hills, Roderick M., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Abbas, Haruhi A-, M.A., Lecturer I in Japanese
Agas Weller, Adelwisa L., M.S., Lecturer II in Tagalog Language
Alspector, Tammy L., M.A, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Ayal, Yoram, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology
Balaghi, Shiva, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Iranian
Bardwell, Lisa V., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Natural Resources and Environment
Berger, Romy A, License, Lecturer I in French
Burr, Suzanne, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Telecommunication Arts
Butler, John J., III, B.S., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Carlson, David M., M.A., Lecturer I in Japanese
Collier, Thomas W., M.S., Lecturer II in History
Cook, Scott B., M.A, Lecturer I in Chinese
Dave, Shilpa S., B.S., Lecturer II in Asian Pacific American Studies
DeSanto, Frank A., M.F.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Dupuis, Reshela P., M.A., Lecturer II in American Studies
Dzhermakyan, Martin, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Eickhoff, Regine, M.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Elias de Guiamet, Maria E., M.A., Lecturer II in Social Foundation of Education
Fabos, Bettina G., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Telecommunication Arts
Freeman, Hurley L., M.A., Lecturer II in English
Gallego de Blibeche, Olga, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Spanish
Grech, Elaine, B.Educ., Lecturer in Italian
Grech, John, Diploma, Lecturer II in Italian
Hackett, Elizabeth M., M.A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Halsted, David G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Hass, Kristin A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Studies
Holoshitz, Malli, B.A, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language
Infante, Cecilia A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Ischi, Nicolas P., License, Lecturer II in French
Jackson, Jennifer L., M.F.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Kamp, Marianne R., B.A., Lecturer II in Uzbek
Kato, Ayako, B.A., Lecturer I in Japanese
Kearns, Josie, M.F.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Kim, Jaemin, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Korean
Kotler, Michele, B.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Krecker, Margaret L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology


94




October Meeting, 1994


Kurtz, Marcus J., B.S., Lecturer II in Political Science
Lavie, Smadar, B.Sc., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies
Li, Bao Qin, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Maddock, Janine R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, January 1, 1995
Mayens-Robles, Nadeska, M.A, Lecturer I in Spanish
McAlister, William L., II, B.A, Lecturer I in Spanish
McCune, Patricia H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History
Messer, Sarah, M.F.A, Lecturer II in English Literature
Montero, Ana M., B.A, Lecturer II in Spanish
Moreno, Sandra B., AM., Lecturer I in Spanish
Nath, Holger, M.Phil., Lecturer II in Yiddish Language and Literature
Nicolaescu, Liviu I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Novkov, Julie L., J.D., M.A, Lecturer II in Political Science
Olmedo-Monje, David, Licenciatura, Lecturer II in Spanish
Perez, Mariola, Filologia, Lecturer I in Spanish
Peters, Jeffrey A, M.F.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Piccoli, Sonia, B.A., Lecturer I in Italian
Pires, Tereza, M.A, Lecturer II in French
Plat, Noelle, Maitrise, Lecturer II in French
Pon, Cynthia, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Comparative Literature, January 1, 1995
Poteet, Ellen S., B.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Rado, Lisa, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Renganathan, Vasu, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Tamil Language
Rojo, Alberto G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Roorda, Randall K., M.A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Schiff, Rebecca L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science
Sheats, Jeffrey T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Smereka, Peter S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Staniszkis, Joanna M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Swanson, Steven L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Takata, Azumi A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Wein, Terren I., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Medical School
Ben-Joseph, Oded, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Radiological Sciences
Brinley, F. John, III, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, August 1, 1994
Chervin, Ronald D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology, September 19, 1994
Farrehi, Janice G., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1994
Kerppola, Tom K. W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology
Rockwell, Pamela G., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice
Skratek, Jean M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 1, 1994
Worzniak, Michael J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice
School of Nursing
Cook, Ann E., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
De Leonard, Marcia M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
McGuinness, Mary C., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
O'Grady, Michelle H., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Reitz, Jeffrey A., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Pharmacy, August 29, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Fleury, Christopher J., B.A., Lecturer in Political Science
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Barnett, Robert W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English
Gano-Phillips, Susan K., M.A., Lecturer in Psychology
Podolsky, Robert H., B.S., Lecturer in Biology
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Knaack, Brenda M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Meredith, Cynthia E., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Reinecke, Kathleen S., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing


95




October Meeting, 1994


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Burkam, David T., from Lecturer II in Quantitative Reasoning, Residential College, to Lecturer
II in Mathematics
Caulfield, Sueann, from Instructor in History and Instructor in History, Residential College, to
Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of History, Residential College
Chen, Yan, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Economics
McShea, Daniel W., Lecturer II in Biology, also appointed Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Motoike, Pamela T., Lecturer II in Psychology, also appointed Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Tirado, Mildred C., Lecturer II in Psychology, also appointed Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Medical School
Lozon, Marie M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases
Smith, Shawna D., from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Dewar, Margaret E., Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
School of Business Administration
Weiss, Janet A., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure, and
Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1994-August 31, 1995
College of Engineering
Schwank, Johannes W., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department
of Chemical Engineering, sabbatical leave
Law School
Chambers, David L., III, Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Cooper, Edward H., Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law, with tenure, and Associate Dean, Law
School, sabbatical leave
Fox, Merritt B., Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Friedman, Richard D., Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1l
December 31, 1994
Israel, Jerold H., Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Sandalow, Terrance, Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Schneider, Carl E., Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Soper, E. Philip, James V. Campbell Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Westen, Peter K., Frank G. Millard Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Allen, Sally L., Professor of Biology, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 22~
December 31, 1994
Amrine, Frederick R., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Axelrod, Daniel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1o
December 31, 1994
Beauchamp, Gorman L., Associate Professor of Humanities, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Bellamy, James A., Professor of Arabic Literature, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995


96




October Meeting, 1994


Bien, David D., Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1995
Brown, Donald R., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1995 -June 30, 1996
Cariello, Matthew M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, leave without salary
Cather, James N., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1995
Cloyd, Emily L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1994
Dewoskin, Kenneth J., Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, duty off campus
Eby, Cecil D., Jr., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Ericson, William A, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1995
Feuerwerker, Albert, A. M. and H. P. Bentley Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1994, and retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1995
Gingerich, Philip D., Director, Museum of Paleontology, Professor of Geological Sciences, with
tenure, Professor of Biological Sciences, without tenure, and Professor of Anthropology,
without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1995
Hermalin, Albert I., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, leave without salary
Isaacson, Helen, Lecturer II in English, leave without salary
Jennings, M. Kent, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary, January
1-May 15, 1995
Johnson, Lemuel A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, extended sick
leave, September 22, 1994-May 31, 1995
Jonides, John, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus
Krisch, Jean P., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, leave without salary
McDonald, Terrence J., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of History, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Moore, Thomas E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Muller, Marcel N., Professor of French, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1995
Nussbaum, Ronald A., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, duty off campus, September 10 -December 31, 1994
Orr, Bradford G., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Pernick, Martin S., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Price, Vincent E., Associate Professor of Communication, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Robertson, Jennifer E., Associate Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1994
Schwarz, Norbert W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, June 25 -August 31, 1994
Shy, John W., Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1995
Smith, J. E. Keith, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without
tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Stebbins, William C., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, July 1, 1994-June 30, 1995
Tanter, Raymond, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Toman, Jindrich, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, leave
without salary
Voss, Edward G., Professor of Botany, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1994 -August 31, 1996
Medical School
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement furlough,
August 1, 1994-July 31, 1995
Quint, Leslie E., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -August 31, 1994


97




October Meeting, 1994


Raymond, Pamela A., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
August 1, 1994-July 31, 1995
Zweifler, Andrew J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement furlough,
July 1-31, 1994
School of Public Health
Caruso, Rita L., Associate Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Fisher, Sister Mary T., Lecturer in Rhetoric and Composition, extended sick leave, September 21 -December 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Kachhal, Swatantra K, Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, and Chair, Department
of Industrial and Systems Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994-April 30, 1995
Kampfier, Roberto R., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bailey, Charles W., Associate Professor of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Bronstein, Paul M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Dunlop, Charles E. M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Hansen, Kristina D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Kowal, Lubomyr M., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
Reddy, Nallapu N., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Economics,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994
Simkani, Mehrdad, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Wall, Harriet M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Waters, Christine M., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Wu, Lung-Chiang, Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Canary, Richard D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, duty off campus, September 1>
December 31, 1994, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1995 (previously
reported as scholarly activity leave September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995)
Hall, Richard L., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995 (previously reported as leave without salary,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995)
Stensones, Berit, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1- December 31, 1994 (previously reported as duty off campus,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995)
School of Education
Meisels, Samuel J., Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1994, and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1995 (previously reported as sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1995)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Vrettos, Athena, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies
(previously reported as leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1994)


98




October Meeting, 1994


TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Shen, Qi, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, resigned, August 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Draghicescu, Christina I., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, resigned,
July 31, 1994
Eernisse, Douglas J., Lecturer II in Biology, resigned, July 31, 1994
Goodison, Lorna G., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1994
Medical School
Davis, Rodney, Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, August 31, 1994
Jakob, Harriet A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete, June 29, 1994
Liebert, Monica, Assistant Professor of Surgery, resigned, August 29, 1994
Plautz, Gregory E., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned,
August 31, 1994
Shu, Suyu, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, resigned, August 15, 1994
Whowell, Marianne, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, August 31, 1994
School of Music
Bergsman, Rolfe D., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, resigned, August 21, 1994
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Kerfoot, Wilson C., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, without tenure,
term complete, August 31, 1994
School of Nursing
Gregory, Lynn A, Lecturer in Nursing, resigned, August 31, 1994
Nelson, Carlene C., Assistant Professor of Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Emery, Allan R., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Bancroft, Beverly A, Assistant Professor of Education, resigned, August 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Sullivan, Gerald A, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, resigned, April 30, 1994
Retirement Memoirs
Lyubica Dabich, M.D., associate professor of internal medicine, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1994.
A native of Michigan, Dr. Dabich obtained her B.S. degree in chemistry at
the University of Michigan in 1950 and her M.S. degree in biochemistry at the
University of Wisconsin in 1951.     She worked at the Parke Davis Research
Laboratory in Detroit until 1956 and then enrolled in McGill University Medical
School in Montreal, where she received her M.D. degree in 1960. Dr. Dabich
then returned to the University of Michigan for her internship and residency
training (1960-64). She was an Elsa U. Pardee Fellow in Hematology at the
Simpson Memorial Institute from 1964-65 and a research associate from 1965-66
before joining the Medical School faculty as an instructor in 1966. She was
promoted to assistant professor in 1968 and associate professor in 1973.
The main thrust of Dr. Dabich's work has been the diagnosis and treatment
of adult patients with leukemia or lymphoma. She was principal investigator for


99




October Meeting, 1994


a number of studies that were carried out in the Southwest Oncology Group by a
consortium of university medical schools. Dr. Dabich was also involved in
studies of progressive systemic sclerosis, and her work has contributed to our
knowledge of the natural history, pathophysiology, and treatment of this
disorder.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her dedicated
service by naming Lyubica Dabich associate professor emeritus of internal
medicine.
Allan G. Feldt, professor of urban planning in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1994.
Professor Feldt received his B.S., AM., and Ph.D. degrees in 1954, 1958,
and 1963, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. From 1962-71, he
served on the faculty at Cornell University and also held visiting professorships
at several other universities. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1971 as an associate professor of urban and regional planning and was promoted
to professor in 1973.
In addition to teaching graduate level courses in urban and regional
planning, Professor Feldt has served as chair of the Program in Urban and
Regional Planning and as director of the Program in Urban, Technological, and
Environmental Planning. He has also been an active member of many program,
college, and University committees. In 1983, he was awarded the Sol King
Award for Excellence in Teaching, and in 1989 he was honored by the Urban
Planning Alumni Society with its highest award-the Award of Professional
Distinction-given for leadership and achievements in the planning profession.
Throughout his career, Professor Feldt has also been a leader in interactive
gaming. The Detroit Area Growth Game (DAGG), later renamed the Metropolitan Area Growth Game (MAGG), is one of a series of games he developed. This
game combines twenty-five years of experience with planning games, such as the
Community Land Use Game (CLUG) (Cornell University, 1965), ten years of
experience with computer conferencing using Confer II, and seven years of
experience with high school students playing the Middle East Conflict Simulation
(University of Michigan School of Education). Professor Feldt's introduction of a
specialized version of DAGG for middle school and high school students in
Detroit gives these youngsters an understanding of urban development issues at
an early age.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Allan G. Feldt
professor emeritus of urban planning.
John J. Gannon, professor of public health engineering in the Department
of Environmental and Industrial Health and research scientist in the Institute of
Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, retired from
active faculty status on August 31, 1994.
A native of New York City, Professor Gannon served in the U.S. Army
during World War II, after which he received his B.C.E. degree from Manhattan
College. He earned his M.P.H. degree from the University of Michigan in 1952,
while working part-time as a resident lecturer. He was appointed assistant
professor in 1952 and was promoted to associate professor in 1957 and professor


100




October Meeting, 1994


in 1964. He has been a research scientist in the Institute of Environmental and
Industrial Health since 1974.
A licensed professional engineer in Michigan and New York, Professor
Gannon is a well-known scholar in the field of public health engineering. His
academic achievements include the establishment of the water quality program
in the School of Public Health and the Water Resources Management Program in
the Rackham School of Graduate Studies. He is an effective educator and his
teaching ability has been admired by generations of students.
Professor Gannon is nationally and internationally known for his research
on water pollution and water quality management, and he has published over 50
papers and numerous reports for government and international agencies. He is
a diplomat of the American Academy of Environmental Engineers and a life
member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, the Water Pollution Control
Federation, and the American Water Works Association.
In recognition of his outstanding contributions, the Regents now name John
J. Gannon professor emeritus of public health engineering and research scientist
emeritus.
Robert B. Zajonc, director of the Institute for Social Research, Charles
Horton Cooley Distinguished University Professor of Social Sciences, Department of Psychology, College of LS&A, and research scientist, Research Center for
Group Dynamics, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1994, after an
extraordinary, 40-year career as a researcher, teacher, and administrator.
A native of Poland, Professor Zajonc immigrated to this country after World
War II and received his B.A (1950), M.A (1952), and Ph.D. (1955) degrees at the
University of Michigan. He has been associated with the Research Center for
Group Dynamics since 1954, beginning as a research associate and eventually
serving as its director (1983-89). He was named assistant professor of psychology
in 1957 and was promoted to associate professor in 1961 and professor in 1965.
He was named the Charles Horton Cooley Distinguished Professor in 1983 and
director of ISR in 1989.
Professor Zajonc is regarded as one of the premier psychologists in the
world; there are textbooks that include more references to his work than to that
of any other psychologist. He has contributed to many areas of psychology, but
his most original and important research shows that "mere familiarity" with an
object is sufficient to cause one to have a more positive attitude toward it; family
size and birth order within the family have very systematic effects on intelligence; and emotional appraisal of an object and cognitive appraisal of an object
are essentially independent processes.
For his extraordinary research contributions, Professor Zajonc has received
the highest awards in his field, including the Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award of the American Psychological Association and the Distinguished
Scientist Award of the Society for Experimental Social Psychology, in addition to
visiting professorships and Guggenheim, Fulbright, and Rockefeller fellowships,
among others. Professor Zajonc is a member of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences, is the only foreign member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and
holds honorary degrees from the University of Louvain (France) and the University of Warsaw.


101




October Meeting, 1994


The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Robert B. Zajonc the Charles Horton Cooley Distinguished University Professor
Emeritus of Social Sciences and research scientist emeritus.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded
by Regent Baker, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
University of Michigan Financial Report for Year Ended June 30, 1994
Executive Vice President Womack submitted, under separate cover, the
University of Michigan Financial Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1994. He
complimented staff members on the excellent quality of the publication, and
pointed out that it had been produced entirely within the University.
Ann Arbor Technology Park
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the only parcel
of vacant land in Ann Arbor Technology Park remaining to be purchased, Parcel
P, had had an environmental assessment conducted on it. The assessment had
revealed the existence of underground storage tanks, from which no release had
been detected. This report is available for review in the Treasurer's Office. He
noted that the University intended to close on the acquisition of parcel P by the
end of October.
Alternative Asset Investments
Regent Deitch moved that $10 million of the University Endowment Fund
be committed to the Fidelity Galileo Fund, L.P., pending a favorable review of
the documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's office. Regent
Power seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was approved
unanimously.
Tactical Asset Allocation
Regent Power moved that First Quadrant be appointed as a tactical allocation manager for the University Endowment Fund and the Long-Term Portfolio.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion.   Executive Vice President Womack
explained that the purpose of this action would be to replace The Common Fund
with one of The Common Fund's managers as the University's tactical allocation
manager. This more direct relationship would strengthen oversight and control.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Issuance of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds, and Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds
Regent Brown moved that the Regents adopt the following Resolution
authorizing the use of bond options when issuing the Hospital Revenue Bonds,
Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds and Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


102




October Meeting, 1994


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTRES RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, on September 24, 1993 the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") adopted its Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Hospital Revenue Bonds
and Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds and Providing For Other Matters Relating Thereto,
which Resolution was amended on December 17, 1993, February 18, 1994, and September 19,
1994 (as amended, the "Resolution:); and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable to further amend the Resolution as provided
herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan,
as follows:
1. Section 3 of the Resolution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof an additional paragraph reading in its entirety as follows:
"In connection with the issuance of all or any part of the Hospital Revenue
Bonds, the MSP Bonds, and the Bonds authorized by the May 7th Resolution, in addition to, or as an alternative, entering to a Hospital Swap Agreement or a MSP Swap
Agreement, the Issuer may enter into one or more option contracts with respect to
the conversion to a fixed rate of any variable rate bonds (or, alternatively, the issuance of fixed rate refunding bonds to currently refund variable rate bonds). Such option contracts may provide, among other things, for the party receiving the option
from the University to require the University to convert at some point in the future
the variable rate bonds to a specified fixed rate, or to issue refunding bonds at some
point in the future at a specified fixed rate. The terms of any fixed rate bonds, which
are hereby authorized to be issued, executed, and delivered as provided herein, resulting from the conversion or refunding of variable rate bonds upon the exercise of any
option shall be subject to the conditions, limitations, and provisions of this Resolution, or the May 7th Resolution, as appropriate. Any option contract may, in addition, provide for the Issuer's obligation to repay (under certain circumstances) any
payments received by the Issuer with respect to the entry into of the option contract,
with interest, from Hospital Gross Revenues, MSP Revenues (or other available revenues or funds of the Medical School), as appropriate, or from other legally available
funds of the Issuer. Either Authorized Officer is authorized and directed, in the mane
and on behalf of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute,
and deliver any such option contract, as described in this paragraph. Any such contract may, in the discretion of an Authorized Officer also be executed by the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University."
2. As amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed. All resolutions or
parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith, be and the same are
hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
106 Patrician Way, Pasadena, California
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved accepting the property at 106 Patrician Way, Pasadena,
California, subject to the existing offer to purchase at a price of $330,000. The
sale proceeds, less any realtor's commission, will benefit the Donald R. Shepherd
Professorship in Music.
Common Fund Inventories
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the June 30, 1994 inventories
of The Common Fund pooled funds in which the University participates. He
asked the Board for feedback on whether or not they felt that this information


103




October Meeting, 1994


was useful. Following some discussion, it was determined that this report is of
little value to the Regents, and this will no longer be submitted.
TUM-Flint State Office Building/Professional Studies Classroom
Regent Baker moved submission of a program statement to the State of
Michigan for renovation of the State Office Building, proceeding with the design
phase of the facility, and authorization to appoint SSOE, Inc. as the architectural
firm to conduct the future design of the facility, once the program has been
approved by the State of Michigan. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Oakway Road Relocation Easement
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved authorizing the executive vice president and chief financial officer to grant the easements for the Oakway Road relocation project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Department of Veterans Affairs Easement
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved authorizing the executive vice president and chief fimancial officer to grant an easement to the Department of Veterans Affairs for
construction of the entrance drive to the expanded VA Hospital, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Phase II of the EPA
Green Lights Program by the Housing Division; 2) Remodeling of the lower level
of the IST Building for the Ultrafast Science Facility; 3) Replacement of air
handling units in the Medical Science II Building; 4) Relocation of the Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery/Wound Management Program to Domino's Farms; and
5) Renovation of space within the University of Michigan Hospitals Trauma
Burn Unit.
Purchasing Contract with Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract between the University of Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
Because the owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Samuel J. Meisels, is also
a University of Michigan employee, this purchasing contract falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the University of Michigan and Rebus
Planning Associates, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support three University of Michigan research
grants include the purchase during the period July through October 1994, from
Rebus Planning Associates, Inc., of:


104




October Meeting, 1994


145 Work Sampling System overviews @ $1,450;
20 participants at Work Sampling training @ $8,000;
50 Work Sampling System reference sets @ $6,250;
32 Omnibus Guidelines @ $800;
35 Student Materials Packets @ $2,625;
for a total purchase of $19,125.
3.   Dr. Meisels9 pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
Purchasing Contract with Fitness Finders, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Fitness Finders, Inc.
Because the owners of Fitness Finders, Inc., Charles T. and Beth A
Kuntzleman, are also University employees, this purchasing contract falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the purchase contract will be the University of Michigan and Fitness
Finders, Inc.
2.   The terms of the contract to support in a cost-effective manner the Blue
Cross-Blue Shield-funded Fitness for Youth Program, participated in by some
employees of the University's Division of Kinesiology, include the purchase
during April through October, 1994, from Fitness Finders, Inc. of:
44 Mileage Club packets @ $308.00;
31 Skill-A-Week Programs @ $308.45;
46 Living Well Workbooks @ $181.70;
48 Aerobics/Fun activity books @ $720.00;
65 Blood Pressure Equipment sets @ $1,950.00;
40 Music Tapes @ $598.00;
25 Exercise Training Posters @ $248.75;
200 Latex tubing for physical activities @ $600.00;
for a total purchase price of $4,914.90.
3.   Charles T. and Beth A. Kuntzleman's pecuniary interest arises from their positions as co-owners of Fitness Finders, Inc.
Proposed Option Agreement and Resulting License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Nephros Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a proposed option agreement and resulting license
agreement between the University of Michigan and Nephros Therapeutics, Inc..
Because Dr. H. David Humes is a University employee and holds an equity
interest in Nephros Therapeutics, Inc., the proposed agreement and license
agreement fall under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Nephros
Therapeutics, Inc., a company in which Dr. H. David Humes holds an equity
interest.


105




October Meeting, 1994


2.   Contract terms are as follows:
The contracts to be completed between the University and Nephros include the
option, the license to be executed upon exercise of the option, as well as
documents covering stock transfers, materials bailments, limited further
University developments, and other related matters. Detailed summaries of the
relationship between the University and Nephros, and the proposed option
agreement, are attached to this action request for the Regents' reference. The
basic elements of the arrangements are restated here:
The option agreement provides that Nephros may exercise an option to an
exclusive license to the technologies, once it has obtained at least $1,000,000 in
outside investment funding. Upon exercise, a predetermined license will be
executed by the parties, with terms including the following:
The license will provide the University with a modest royalty (1 to 1.5%) of
Nephros' sales of products and services, a portion (20%) of any sublicensing
revenue, a $60,000 license fee to help cover expended patent costs, and a 10%
equity interest in Nephros, to be calculated at the point at which Nephros has
obtained $2,000,000 in outside funding;
The duration of the license agreement will be the longer of the last to expire of
any patents that issue covering the technologies, ten years from the date of the
agreement, or seven years from the date that Nephros begins sales of products
or services;
The University will retain ownership of the technologies and patents, granting
an exclusive commercialization license to Nephros. The University will retain
internal research use rights, as well as the right to provide the United States
Government with non-exclusive licenses, as required under sponsorship
agreements. As Dr. Humes is both a University faculty member and a VA staff
member, the license will further clarify that only the proprietary rights of the
University, and not of any other party, are licensed; and
Nephros will use its best efforts to develop products, obtain governmental approvals, and make the benefits of products available to the public. Nephros will
further agree to make reasonable attempts to locate its production and research
facilities initially in Michigan.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the option agreement or the resulting license
agreement.
3.   Dr. Humes' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Nephros
Therapeutics, Inc. In accordance with University policy, he will waive any
personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University
from Nephros.
Proposed Subcontract between the University of Michigan and Aeromover Systems Corporation
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a proposed subcontract between the University of Michigan and Aeromover Systems Corporation for a project funded by NASA through
the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Pilot Program.
Because Neil D. Gerl and Judith 0. Gerl are both employees of the University of Michigan and officers of Aeromover Systems Corporation, and Neil Gerl
also owns 50 percent of the company's stock, this subcontract falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


106




October Meeting, 1994


1.   Parties to the agreement will be Aeromover Systems Corporation and the
Regents of the University of Michigan.
2.   The proposed agreement is a standard university research subcontract. There
are no restrictions on publication or openness of the research. The subcontract
will cover partial salary costs for Johann Borenstein and a graduate student
and equipment use charges, all totaling $23,304 over a six-month period. No
indirect cost will be charged since this is an STTR Pilot project.
3.   Neither of the Gerls is an employee of the company. They serve as officers
without compensation. Neil Gerl owns 50 percent of the company's stock and
may be reimbursed by the company as a technical consultant. No other
University employee has an interest in the company's NASA contract or in the
University's subcontract.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Sysma, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan
and Sysma, Inc.
Because Professor Edna Coffin holds an equity interest in Sysma, Inc. and is
also a University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Sysma, Inc., a
company in which Professor Edna Coffin holds an equity interest.
2.   Terms of the contract include payment to the University of 7 percent of the net
sales of the programs by Sysma, and 20 percent of any sublicensing revenues
generated for the programs (these rates may be reduced by one half, under certain circumstances, beginning in 1998). Beginning in 1995, minimum payments of at lease $500 to the University are required.
The agreement remains in effect until terminated by Sysma, Inc.
The University will retain ownership of the programs, granting an exclusive
commercialization license to Sysma. The University will retain internal use
rights, as well as the right to produce and commercialize similar programs for
other languages.
Sysma will use its best efforts to effectively commercialize the programs.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Professor Coffin's pecuniary interest arises from her ownership interest in
Sysma, Inc. In accordance with University policy, she will waive any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from Sysma.
Agreement      between     the   University     of  Michigan      and   Michigan
Materials and Processing Institute
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
Michigan Materials and Processing Institute (MMPI), under which MMPI will
sponsor two University research projects.


107




October Meeting, 1994


Because Dr. Pankaj K Mallick is both a member of the board of directors of
MMPI and a University employee who will direct the projects, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreements will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Materials and Processing Institute (MMPI).
2.   Terms of the agreements will be consistent with University policy. The first
project is proposed over a three-year period at a total of $177,396. The second
project is proposed over a two-year period at a total of $153,432. Both budgets
include salary support for Dr. Mallick and two graduate students.
3.   Dr. Mallick has no proprietary interest in and will receive no compensation
directly from MMPI.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Public
Data Queries, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Public Data Queries, Inc. (PDQ).
PDQ has received a research grant through the Small Business Technology
Program (SBTP) to fund a project, and SBTP requires that a university participate in a funded project at a minimum of 30 percent of the total costs. The
agreement between the University of Michigan and PDQ fulfills this requirement. The University's work in PDQ will be under the direction of Barbara A.
Anderson, who has no proprietary or other interest in PDQ and is no relation to
the officers of the company. However, because three officers of PDQ (Albert H.
Anderson, Paul H. Anderson, and William Frey) are also University employees,
this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Paul H. Anderson, a University employee and officer and shareholder in PDQ,
will contribute personal time to the project without compensation and outside
his full-time University duties as a system research programmer. Albert F.
Anderson, a University faculty employee, is also an officer of PDQ and will
receive consulting compensation through PDQ for this project. William Frey is
an officer of PDW and an employee of the University but will not be participating in this project.
2.   Terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University
policy. The amount of the subcontract to the University from PDW is $29,562
and the period of performance is one (1) year. As stated above, none of the
University employees who are officers and/or shareholders in PDQ will play any
role in the University's performance of this agreement.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (William J. O'Brien)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement between the University of
Michigan and William J. O'Brien, involving the intellectual property, "Colorimetric Determination of the Colors of Teeth' (TMO file #999).


108




October Meeting, 1994


Because William J. O'Brien is both a University employee and a party to the
agreement, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1,  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and William J.
O'Brien, M.S., Ph.D.
2.  Contract terms include payment to the University of 15 percent of total consideration received by William J. O'Brien, and no use of University facilities or
services without appropriate approvals.
3.  William J. O'Brien's pecuniary interest arises from his right to receive royalties
when this technology is licensed. This is in lieu of participation in the sharing
of royalties received by the University in accordance with University policy.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Vice President Hartford submitted a summary report of judicial activity
stemming from the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities for the
period January 1, 1993, to October 1, 1994.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President Hartford
reported that progress is being made in the University's efforts to fulfill the
requirements for assembling the required number of student board members to
be able to consider amendments to the Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities.
UM-Flint Student Rights Policy
Chancellor Nelms informed the Regents that the University of MichiganFlint had revised its Student Rights Policy to make it consistent with the Ann
Arbor campus' Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities. A copy of the
revised policy was included with the Regents Communication.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, and on the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Naming of the Undergraduate Library
Regent Power observed that the Undergraduate Library was currently
undergoing a total renovation, and that it had never been named for anyone. He
noted that Harold and Vivian Shapiro had served the University for many years
with great love and great distinction, Vivian as a clinical researcher in the
Department of Psychiatry and faculty member in the School of Social Work, and
Harold as a professor of economics, chair of the Department of Economics,
provost, and then president. Given the Shapiro's enormous contributions to the
University of Michigan, Regent Power moved that the Undergraduate Library be
named in honor of Harold T. and Vivian B. Shapiro. Regent Varner seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


109




October Meeting, 1994


M-Quality Expo
Executive Vice President Womack and Provost Whitaker invited the
Regents to visit the M-Quality Expo in the Michigan Union following the
meeting. Executive Vice President Womack observed that the exhibits are "a
splendid example of what happens to an organization when employees, many of
whom heretofore felt little empowerment, begin to feel that empowerment and to
take into their own hands the responsibility for improving the job they have."
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:40 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on November 17 and 18, 1994. Regents expenses
for the month of September 1994 totalled $285.26.
Harold R. John  n
Interim Secretary of the University


110




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 179 1994
The Regents met at 1:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power,
Varner, and Waters. Secretary Johnson was also present, as were Provost
Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison,
Hartford, and Kinnear, and Chancellor Nelms.   Vice President Neal and
Chancellor Renick were absent; Associate Vice President Steven Kunkel and Vice
Chancellor Robert Behrens, respectively, attended in their stead.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and introduced Regents
Elect Daniel D. Homing and Andrea L. Fischer, who were observing the meeting. He then called on Ms. Jean Loup, chair of the Senate Advisory Committee
on University Affairs (SACUA), to make that body's annual presentation to the
Regents.
SACUA Report
Ms. Loup began by reviewing the structure of faculty governance at the
University. She noted that most of the work is done by the various Senate
Assembly committees and described the activities of several of them. She then
reported on the concerns of SACUA, noting that there had been several "skirmishes" between SACUA and the administration during the past year. She said
that during the remainder of her tenure as chair, she intended to do all that she
could to find a middle ground between the two parties.
Ms. Loup reported that SACUA had requested that she raise two concerns:
the suspension of faculty governance in the Department of Communications and
the use of opinions of the general counsel to develop policy. On the positive side,
she said that SACUA applauds initiatives being made to improve the undergraduate experience and is pleased to be working with the provost on reviewing
and improving the faculty grievance process and on examining the need for
appropriate faculty accountability.
Following her report, the president thanked Ms. Loup for her efforts on
behalf of SACUA, and she responded to a question from one of the Regents.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the October 1994 meeting.
Consent Agenda
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations and made some
comments about the Investment Report.   Associate Vice President Kunkel


111




November Meeting, 1994


submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current
research for the month of October 1994.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of
voluntary support, noting that most categories of support are above the levels of
the previous year.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit.............................................................................5,000
Alan Ades, Scarsdale, New York
1,200 shares of Bausch & Lomb, Inc., common stock
for  support  in   th e   M edical  Sch ool.......................................................................................................................................46,950
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Program     in Film  and Video Studies and the Living Writers Fund, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the Consortium for Graduate Study in
Management, School of Business Administration, for support in the Horace H.
Rackham     School of Graduate Studies, and for WUOM/WVGR.........6........................6,080
Judith Dow Alexander, Ann Arbor
for  support  in   the   School  of  M usic........................................................................................................................................5,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Institute of Science and Technology........................................... 66,283
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy.......................................................................12,500
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 28 500
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 2 3,3 3 3
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for  research   in   the   M edical  School...................................................................................................................................25,000
Rudi Ansbacher, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School...................................................................5,000
Arco Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for the Humanities Challenge Grant in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, for support in the College of Engineering and the Schools of Business
Administration and Law, and for the Alumni Association................................................................................5,280
Charles J. Aschauer, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
for  support  in   th e   M edical  School..........................................................................................................................................5,000
BASF Corporation Chemicals Division, Parsippany, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering.............................................................. 10,000
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.........................................................9,500
Margaret E. Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia
for the biological station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham          School of Graduate Studies........................................................6,000
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................6,2 6 9
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School............................................................10,000
California Technology International, Sunnyvale, California
for the Issacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
800 shares of Mattel, Inc., common stock
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
the International Business Faculty Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 21,450
Arthur H. Carter Scholarship Fund, Stamford, Connecticut
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................................................................................ 5,000
Robert C. Christensen, Kingsport, Tennessee
300 shares of Sunoco Products Company common stock
for  support  in   the   M edical  School......................................................................................................................................6,788


112




November Meeting, 1994


Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the Broadsino Finance Fund in the College of Engineering................................................................75,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Ni and Hu Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering.....................................................5,000
Deloitte & Touche Foundation National Financial Information and Data Center,
Hermitage, Tennessee
for  em  ployee      m atching     gift s.................................................................................................................................................. 21,4 60
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for the Continuing Education Fund in the School of Dentistry...................................................................5,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 16,250
Dermik Laboratories, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for the William       B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School.........................................................................5,000
Kirk T. Dornbush, Atlanta, Georgia
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for chemical engineering and other support in the College of Engineering........................................7,500
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the Dow Chemical Company-Britton Fellowship in Chemistry in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the Cooperative Education Program in
the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts................................................25,632
Exxon Company, USA., Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
support     in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.............................................................................................................................27,000
Claire W. Field Estate
for the Jack Field Student Award in Communication and Journalism in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................................................................16,915
Stephen J. Field Estate
for    su pp ort   of   th e   L aw   S ch ool................................................................................................................................................ 15,000
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
the Cancer Center and the Adrenal Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School......................8,000
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for  support     in   the   M edical  School.......................................................................................................................................10,000
Ford Motor Company Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for the IOE      Computer Graphics Fund in the College of Engineering.................................................. 15,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, for support in the Medical School, and for the Fair Lane Music
Guild, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................................................................................... 30,350
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for the Hill Auditorium           Restoration Fund and the University Musical Society........................... 12,500
Ben Franklin Properties, Inc., North Miami Beach, Florida
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School..........................................................9,875
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the GTE       Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration...........................15,000
Gannett Company, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
o f   G ra d u ate   S tu d ie s.........................................................................................................................................................................5,00 0
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering......................................12,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Library Development Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint, and for
em  p loyee     m atch in g   gifts.............................................................................................................................................................89,2 79
Byron and Dorothy Gerson Fund, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the Allen and Hanbury Respiratory Institute and other research in the
M  e d ica l   S ch o o l....................................................................................................................................................................................3 1, 05 0
Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, DC
for  su pport    of  th e   L aw   S chool...................................................................................................................................................5,000
Carleton H. Griffin, Ann Arbor
190 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the William A. Paton Scholarship and the Teaching Excellence Fund in the
School of Business Administration and for the Living Writers Fund in the College
of  L iterature,    Science,    an  d   the   A rts.....................................................................................................................................6,167


113




November Meeting, 1994


John R. Hall, Wellesley, Massachusetts
for the F. E. Richart Laboratory Fund in the College of Engineering.....................................................5,000
Sheila Ford Hamp, Ann Arbor
for  tennis  facilities  in  the  D epartm  ent  of Athletics..............................................................................................30,000
Donald W. Hannah, St. Louis, Missouri
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics.......................................................................................8,000
Marguerite Babaian Harms, Ann Arbor
for the Walter S. Harms Baseball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...............................7,300
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hays, M.D., Scholarship Fund in the Medical School..............................................20,000
Jeanette Fuller Heether Estate
for assistance for English Literature students in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts in memory of Jeanette Fuller Heether.........................................................................................15,000
Charles D. Hershey, Wheeling, West Virginia
for the Frederick A. Coller Research Fellowship in the Medical School..........................................  5,000
William    and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for environmental studies in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.....................25,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit
for the Medical School, Services for Students with Disabilities, Shady Trails
Building Fund, and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship............................................57,088
IGI, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for  research     in   the  College  of  Pharm acy..................................................................................................................... 15,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for  em ployee   m  atching    gifts..................................................................................................................................................46,830
Larry L. Johnson, Orchard Lake
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research   in   the  School of  Public  H ealth...........................................................................................................634,918
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................5,000
K. M. D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  the   U niversity   M usical  Society.................................................................................................................................... 10,125
Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., Detroit
for the Albert Kahn Associates Fellowship in the College of Architecture and
U rb an    P la n n in g....................................................................................................................................................................................5, 0 00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Peace Corps Program           in the School of Education............................................................................135,628
Little Family Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowships, School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Dillard, Georgia
for  the  R uth   L obdell  Scholarship..............................................................................................................................00.......12, 000
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for scholarships for minorities and females and for the Minority Engineering
P rogram     in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.......................................................................................................................... 17,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in  the  School  of  E ducation.........................................................................................................................27,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Inc., Auburn Hills
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School..........................................................9,500
Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc., Findlay, Ohio
for  em ployee   m  atch in g   gifts....................................................................................................................................................25,188
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
Delrose M. Martino Estate
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 70,808
McInerney Leasing, Southfield
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School..............................................    9.........9,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Mellon Foundation D'Arms Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G ra du ate    S tu d ies.............................................................................................................................................................................. 9 0,0 0 0
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Associates Program and the Under-Represented Students Scholarship
Fund in the School of Business Administration and for the Joint Manufacturing
Initiatives Program in the College of Engineering and School of Business
A d m in istratio n...................................................................................................................................................................................7 0,0 0 0


114




November Meeting, 1994


Virginia A. Patton Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Athletics Transportation Fund in the Department of Athletics........................................25,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the Department of Kinesiology, for research at the University
of Michigan-Flint, and for employee matching gifts.........................................................................................100,648
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for  research      in   the  M edical  S ch ool........................................................................................................................................ 6,250
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  S chool......................................................................................................................................6,250
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for  research      in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,4 13
Donna Navetta, Novi
for  the  C om   m unicative     D isorders    Clinic.......................................................................................................................5,000
Leonard M. Newman, Grand Rapids
42,931 shares of Samson Energy Company, L.P., common stock
for the Leonard M. and Eileen K. Newman Unitrust for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................................................485,657
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence in the School of Dentistry................................................................................25,000
Arai Norio, Nagoya, Japan
for the Thermal Research Activities Fund in the College of Engineering............................................5,000
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for the evaluation of a pneumonia treatment algorithm, the University of
M  ich ig a n   H o sp itals......................................................................................................................................................................... 12,0 0 0
Jorge M. Perez, Miami, Florida
for the Urban Planning Fellowship, College of Architecture and Urban Planning....................10,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
A d m  in istra tio n......................................................................................................................................................................................7, 0 00
The Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Gatorade Senior Athletic Trainer Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.........40,000
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for the Building Fund in the School of Social Work and for the All-State Scholarships
in   th e   S ch o o l  o f  M u sic..................................................................................................................................................................  1,000
Richard D. Rohr, Detroit
for    su pp ort   of  th e   L aw   S ch ool...................................................................................................................................................5,0 00
Royal Design and Manufacturing, Inc., Madison Heights
for research in the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering....................................6,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................30,129
Rudy A. Salvette Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for endowment support in the School of Business Administration............................................................5,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmological research in the Medical School.........................................................................................50,000
John J. Schiff, Cincinnati, Ohio
500 shares of Cincinnati Financial Corporation common stock
for the Marching Band Uniform                Fund in the School of Music....................................................................26,063
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship Fund in the College
o f  E n g in e e rin g....................................................................................................................................................................................2 1,0 0 0
The Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Charles Ward Seabury Research Fellowship in the College of Architecture
an d   U rb an   P lan n in g......................................................................................................................................................................10,0 0 0
Nate S. and Ruth B. Shapero Foundation, Detroit
for special acquisitions in the Museum                of Art..........................................................................................................14,800
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
602 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock
for  gifts  pending      designation..................................................................................................................................................20,0 17
Donald R. Shepherd, Sonoma, California
for the Athletic Bands Fund in the School of Music............................................................................................25,000
Simco Stores, Inc., Ridgefield, New Jersey
for  support     in   the  M edical  School.......................................................................................................................................52,900
Bruce H. Simpson Trust, Dearborn
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............................................................................................5,000


115




November Meeting, 1994


Clare Sliney Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................................................................5,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Center
for  the   E ducation    of  W om en.................................................................................................................................. 68,809
Emmons E. Smith, Bloomfield Hills
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering...........................................    5,000
Eva K. Smith Trust
for  support   in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................32 4 11
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret M. and Herman E. Sokol Faculty Award in the Horace H.
R ackham      School of G  raduate    Studies.....................................................................................................100,000
Marvin J. Sonosky, Alexandria, Virginia
for the Native American Resource Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources
an d   E n v iro n m e n t................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Stephen A. Stone, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
for the Dean's Faculty Enrichment Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.........................................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Melville B. Stout Trust
for   stu d en t  fin an cial  aid............................................................................................................................................................ 0,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for  the  Scottish  Rite   Funds   in  the  M edical School...................................................................................................8,581
T.S.G. Ventures, Inc., New York, New York
for the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship and other support in the
School   of  B u siness  A dm inistration................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program         in the School of Business Administration................................................ 10,000
Kenneth E. Thompson, Traverse City
for    support   of  the   Law   School..........................................................................................................................................5......5 000
Mary M. Treckelo Estate
for  the  C.S. M ott  Children's   H ospital G   ift  Fund.................................................................................................101,360
United Cerebral Palsy, New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................50,000
University of Florida Foundation, Inc., Gainesville, Florida
for support in the Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences in the College
of  L iteratu re, S cience, an  d   the  A rts..................................................................................................................................29,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support in the Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences in the College
of  L iterature, Science, an    d   the  A rts.....................................................................................................................................6,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial Medical Scholarship, Medical School.......................50,000
Eleanor M. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for  support   in   the   School  of  E ducation..............................................................................................................................5,000
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
800 shares of various corporate common stocks
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................23,013
Warner Books, Inc., New York, New York
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School and for
em  p loy ee   m atch in g   gifts................................................................................................................................................................6,10 0
Woman's National Farm & Garden Association, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........5,800
S. M. Wu Center for Advanced Manufacturing, Ann Arbor
for the Ni and Hu Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Geoprobe Systems, Salina, Kansas
various parts and tools for groundwater and soil sampling for the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering
International Business Machines Corporation, Southfield
Catia software modules for the solar car
John D. Mabley, Grosse Pointe Farms
a Siren sailboat with center board, mast, and a trailer for Camp Michigania


116




November Meeting, 1994


Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
volumes of black and white photographs and accessories and six boxes of microfiche for the
Department of History of Art
Jane White, Ann Arbor
5 cases of regular brick, 25 cases of insulative brick, and 700 flint fire bricks for the School
of Art
Additional gifts ranging from     $1 to $999 in value were received from      the
following donors:
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor              Ralmark Company, Ann Arbor
AP Racing, Coventry                       Shakespeare Oxford Society, Nashua, NH
Carol A. Chaney, Davison                  Graham Smith, Ann Arbor
Diane M. Kirkpatrick, Ann Arbor           Nancy Spilker, Dearborn
Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason, Ann Arbor        Torr Technologies, Inc., Auburn, WA
Provost's    Reports.      Provost Whitaker submitted        personnel actions,
personnel reports, and retirement memoirs. No deaths were reported to the
Regents this month.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Widner, Jennifer A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Political Science, January 1, 1995
Workman, Reginald D., Professor of Music (Jazz), September 1, 1995
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Huntington, Curtis E., J.D., Professor of Mathematics, three-year term, September 1, 1994
Workman, Maya M., Associate Professor of Dance, five-year term, September 1, 1995
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVESTTAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Carignan, George R., reappointed Associate Dean for Graduate Education and Research, College
of Engineering, three-year term, February 1, 1995
Krachenberg, A. Richard, Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Dearborn, returned to active
status, academic year, September 1, 1994
McClamroch, N. Harris, appointment extended as Chair, Department of Aerospace Engineering,
six-month term, January 1, 1995
McKeachie, Wilbert J., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, returned to active status, eleven-month
term, July 1, 1994
Warschausky, Sidney, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, UM-Dearborn,
returned to active status, winter term, January 1, 1995


117




November Meeting, 1994


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Faller, Lincoln B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education and Long-Range Planning, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, three-year term, July 1, 1995
Giordani, Bruno J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1994-April 30, 1996
Mowbray, Carol T., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, also
appointed Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, October 1, 1994-April 30, 1996
Woods, Richard D., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair of
Civil and Environmental Engineering, November 21, 1994-August 31, 1996
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
Huang, Yasheng, Assistant Professor of Political Science, leave without salary extended
Israel, Ronen, Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, teaching leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994
Hahn, Barbara, Max Kade Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, fall term
Hill-Collins, Patricia, Presidential Professor, fall term
Koop, C. Everett, Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, fall term
Zavella, Patricia J., Presidential Professor, fall term
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Briggs, Dale E., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1994-June 30, 1997, vice James Chaffers,
term expired
Pryor, Cecil L., alumni member, November 1, 1994-June 30, 1995, vice Gloria J. Jeff, resigned
Weber, Walter J., Jr., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1994-June 30, 1997, vice Bruce Karnopp,
term expired
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Nowak, Andrzej S., January 1-June 30, 1995, vice Andrew F. Nagy, unavailable during winter
term 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Loeb, Roger C., November 1-December 31, 1994, vice Robert W. Hymes, during promotion and
tenure recommendations
Schneider, Michael J., November 1-December 31, 1994, vice Linda E. Fisher, during promotion
and tenure recommendations
Tentler, Leslie W., September 1, 1994-August 31, 1995, vice Gerald F. Moran, appointed Interim
Associate Dean in the UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letter


118




November Meeting, 1994


Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Navvab, Mojtaba, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture
College of Engineering
Bell, John To, Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Division of Kinesiology
Chong, Sean J., B.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, October 1, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hertz, Dalia, M.A, Lecturer II in First Year Seminars
Mahoney, Deborah J., M.A, Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Munoz, Pina M., B.S., Lecturer I in Spanish
Peters-Golden, Holly, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology and Lecturer II in Anthropology,
Residential College
Rosoff, Susan H., M.A, Lecturer II in French
Shuker-Haines, Timothy M., Lecturer II in American Studies
Medical School
Adelman, Susan, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II in Surgery, August 1, 1994
Baldwin, James L., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, October 1, 1994
Cimmino, Vincent M., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II in Surgery
Cortright, Gerald W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology
Cosio, Margaret, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, October 1, 1994
Gleespen, Martin P., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, October 15, 1994
Huntington, John H., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, November 7, 1994
Joiner, Terence, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
October 1, 1994
Kazanjian, Powel H., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, October 1, 1994
Marshall, Jeffrey S., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, November 7, 1994
Munro, Hamish M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, October 1, 1994
O'Kelly, Sean W., M.B.Ch.B., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, October 1, 1994
Rotter, Steven J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, October 1, 1994
Sonis, Jeffrey H., M.D., Assistant Professor of Family Practice, September 26, 1994
Swindell, Sharon L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
October 10, 1994
Wahl, Wendy L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery
Yarows, Steven A, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, October 15, 1994
School of Nursing
Fitzpatrick, Michelle M., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Podolsky, Robert H., B.S., Assistant Professor of Biology, September 1, 1994 (previously reported
as Lecturer in Biology, September 1, 1994)


119




November Meeting, 1994


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Burnham, Robyn J., Assistant Curator, Museum of Paleontology, and Assistant Professor of
Biology, also appointed Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, September 1, 1994 -May 31, 1997
Medical School
Polley, Theodore Z., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II in Surgery,
one-year term
Szocik, James F., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, one-year term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Borkin, Harold J., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Kowalewski, Henry S., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave
School of Art
Castagnacci, Vincent E., Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Larson, Myra G., Professor of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
Smith, Sherril A, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
College of Engineering
Carnahan, Brice, Professor of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Herrin, Gary D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
School of Information and Library Studies
Dougherty, Richard M., Professor of Library Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Law School
Krier, James E., Earl Warren Delano Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave, September 1 -December 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Allen, Bazel E., Lecturer II in English, extended sick leave, October 22, 1994-September 21, 1995
Bretz, Michael, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Crum, Howard A, Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Curator of Bryophytes and Lichens,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1994-August 31, 1995
Keller-Cohen, Deborah, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Linderman, Gerald F., Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
McLoyd, Vonnie C., Professor of Psychology and Afroamerican Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Milne, Michael G., Lecturer III in Spanish, extended sick leave, September 22-December 31, 1994
O'Dowd, Patricia T., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, extended sick leave,
September 23, 1994-May 31, 1995
Medical School
Brown, Allan C., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure, and Associate Professor
of Anesthesiology, without tenure, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, extended sick
leave, July 28, 1994-August 31, 1994


120




November Meeting, 1994


Donn, Steven M., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1 1994-February 28, 1995
Fekety, F. Robert, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor
of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, retirement furlough,
November 1, 1994-October 31, 1995
Williams, Charles H., Jr., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 1995
School of Social Work
Croxton, Tom A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Tropman, John E., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bord, Donald J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1994"
April 30, 1995
Donahue, Craig J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1995
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1995
Naik, Vaman M., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1995
Wayman, Francis W., Jr., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Akingbehin, Kiumi, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, leave
without salary, September 1, 1994-April 30, 1995
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Colish, Julie E., Lecturer in English, extended sick leave, November 17-December 31, 1994
Rae, Wesley D., Professor of English, with tenure, retirement furlough-phased retirement,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1996
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
Kravaris, Castas, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure (cancel sabbatical
leave previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1995)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Guest, Michael J., Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete, August 31, 1994
School of Education
Payne, Joseph N., Professor of Mathematics Education, with tenure, retired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Norman, Warren T., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, October 31, 1994
Rizki, Tahir M., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, retired
Tonsor, Stephen J., Professor of History, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1994
Wood, Eben Y., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete, May 31, 1994
Medical School
Brunsting, Louis A., III, Assistant Professor of Surgery, resigned, October 26, 1994
Crabbe, Jeffrey P., Assistant Professor of Radiology, resigned, October 14, 1994
Goldman, Robert S., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Assistant Professor
of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, resigned, October 7, 1994


121




November Meeting, 1994


Harris, Richard G., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, September 30, 1994
Heller, Sivana T., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, term complete, June 30, 1994
School of Music
Malm, William P., Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, retired
Retirement Memoir
Warren T. Norman, professor of psychology, retired from active faculty
status on October 31, 1994, after a distinguished career as a teacher, scholar, and
researcher.
Professor Norman received his B.S. degree in 1952, his M.A degree in 1955,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1957, all from the University of Minnesota. He joined
the University of Michigan Department of Psychology in 1957 as an instructor
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1963, and
professor in 1966. Professor Norman served as acting chair of the psychology
department from 1967-68 and chair of the psychology department from 1976-81.
Among Professor Norman's honors are visiting appointments at the Oregon
Research Institute (1965-66, 1987), the University of Birmingham in England
(1972-73), the University of Western Australia (1973), and the University of
Queensland, Australia (1980). His professional service has focused on elevating
standards for the quality of tests and assessment devices. Among the many APA
committees on which he served are the Committee on Test Standards (1961-62),
the Division 5 Committee on Test Reviewing (1964-67), the Committee on
Psychological Tests (1966-67), the Committee on Assessment (1968-69), and the
Board of Scientific Affairs (1982-85).
Professor Norman will be well remembered for his lasting contributions to
the structure of personality and for the use of innovative statistical procedures in
personality assessment. He has written several seminal articles in these areas,
works that continue to grow in significance for the field of personality research.
For example, an article he published in 1963, which presented a compelling
theoretical rationale and empirical evidence for the "five factor model" of
personality, has become a citation classic, with citations continuing to increase
even three decades after its publication. Professor Norman has trained many
generations of personality students and has generously helped many other
psychology students navigate through the technical difficulties of statistical and
psychometric procedures.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist, scholar, teacher, and
administrator for his dedicated service by naming Warren T. Norman professor
emeritus of psychology.
Degrees
Provost Whitaker submitted final degree lists for the August 1994 commencements and final degree lists for the Law School for May and September,
1994. He also submitted the August 1994 Doctoral Degree List and changes to
previously approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees. The president submitted recommendations for the
following individuals to receive honorary degrees: George B. Dantzig, mathematician; Thomas M. Graber, orthodontist and anatomist; and Antonia C. Novello,
former surgeon general of the United States.


122




November Meeting, 1994


Henry Russel Lecturer.     The president nominated Vincent Massey,
professor of biological chemistry, as the Henry Russel Lecturer for 1995.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded
by Regent Brown, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
University of Michigan 1994 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1994
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the University of Michigan
1994 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30,
1994.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl Smith, director of university audits, submitted the regular six
month report on Office of University Audits activities for the period April 1, 1994
through September 30, 1994.
Alternative Asset Investments
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a request for approval of two
real estate and one venture capital investment opportunities. He indicated that
alternative asset investments currently constitute about 12 percent of the
University Endowment Fund, with the target being 25 percent.
Following some discussion, Regent Power moved that the following University Endowment Fund commitments be made, pending a favorable review of the
documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's office: 1) $20 million (plus interest on the initial $6 million from November 1 until the funds are
transferred to TCW) in TCW Special Credits Fund VI; 2) $20 million in AEW
Asset Recovery Partners, L.P.; and 3) up to $5 million in Matrix Partners IV,
L.P.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Sale of Sanilac County, Michigan, Property
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that a parcel of 40
acres of vacant land in Sanilac County had been sold at a purchase price of
$46,000.
Sale of Pasadena, California, Property
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the net proceeds from the sale of the Donald R. Shepherd property in Pasadena, California
had been divided to benefit the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Elbel
Club/Marching Band. It had originally been reported that the proceeds would
benefit the Donald R. Shepherd Professorship in Music.


123




November Meeting, 1994


Intercollegiate Athletics South Ferry Field Development and Football
Stadium Restoration
This is a request for approval of two projects: one to develop South Ferry
Field into permanent practice-competition playing fields, primarily for women's
varsity sports teams, and the other to continue with the next phase in the
ten-year plan to restore the deteriorated concrete and replace seating in the
football stadium.
Regent McGowan said that she had read about the approval of the two
projects by the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics (hereafter referred to
as the "Board in Control") in the paper the previous evening, and questioned
whether it should have been reported in the newspaper before being approved by
the Board of Regents. Executive Vice President Womack responded that the
Board in Control, like any other body, approves such projects as recommendations to the Board of Regents, and under the Regents' Bylaws, no one has the
authority to commit a building or land without the specific authorization of the
Regents. Vice President Harrison, a member of the Board in Control, commented that this was indeed the understanding of that board when the vote was
taken, and that the newspaper report was premature.
Further discussion followed about the relationship between the Board in
Control and the Board of Regents regarding what types of contracts can be
approved by the Board in Control without coming before the Board of Regents.
Regent Deitch questioned agreements related to use of the University's seal and
logo, specifically referring to the licensing agreement that had been negotiated
between the Board in Control and Nike Corporation granting Nike the right to
be the exclusive supplier of athletic equipment for the University's sports teams.
Executive Vice President Womack responded that the Board of Regents had
delegated to him the authority to enter into contracts, and that contracts are not
routinely brought before the Board.
Further discussion ensued about the issue of the Nike contract and about
which contracts come before the Board and which ones do not. Vice President
Harrison pointed out that the Nike contract involves two separate issues: 1) the
use of the University's seal and logos; and 2) the authority to approve contracts.
He noted that the use of the seal is controlled by the secretary of the university,
as stated in the Regents' Bylaws, and that approval for commercial and
non-commercial use of the University's other symbols is under the domain of the
Athletic Department.
Regents Brown and Baker commented on the history of the relationship
between the Board in Control and the Board of Regents, noting that there is a
long history of independence on the part of the Board in Control that has created
a culture that is resistant to change.
Following further discussion, Provost Whitaker reported that his office had
been reviewing the Regents' Bylaws and said that at some point he would be
coming to the Board with suggestions for making changes in the bylaws that
would increase the importance of items brought before the Board in order to


124




November Meeting, 1994


allow the Board to concentrate on the real consequential items for decisionmaking. It was decided that the administration would conduct a review of the
following issues: a) licensing of the University seal and registered trademarks;
b) the lines of authority that govern the relationship between the Board of
Regents and the Board in Control, as well as between the Board of Regents and
other University boards and entities; and c) the policies that govern the execution of contracts.
There being no further discussion, Regent Baker moved approval of the
development of South Ferry Field and the next phase of restoration of the
football stadium, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Power
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: renovation of unfinished space in
the Allan F. and Alene Smith Law Library Addition for creation of a rare book
room, and Fuller Road electrical power line relocation.
Consulting Agreement with Anjoy Research, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved a consulting agreement with Anjoy Research, Inc.
Because both the president of Anjoy (Claes G. Fornell), and chairman of the
board (Michael J. Ryan) are also professors in the School of Business Administration, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan conflict of interest statute.
The   following  information  is  provided   in  compliance  with   statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Anjoy Research,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the contract include that Anjoy Research, Inc., design questionnaires; conduct written surveys; provide customer satisfaction reports; use
unique proprietary model and statistical processes to measure and diagnose
customer and employee satisfaction; interpret results; and deliver the written
reports to the dean of the School of Business Administration.
3.   The contract will be for the years 1993 and 1994 ($48,000 for 1993 and $77,000
for 1994); total payment of $125,000.
Proposed License Agreement with Clark-MXR, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a proposed license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc. Because one of the shareholders in Clark-MXR,
Gerard Mourou, is also a University employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan conflict of interest statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.   Terms of the contract include an exclusive license to Clark-MXR, Inc. (CMXR)
with a duration for the life of any patent which might issue on the invention.


125




November Meeting, 1994


CMXR will pay all patent expenses and will pay to the University a royalty of
$650.00 for each device sold and, starting in 1995, a minimum annual royalty of
$2,500.00. CMXR will also pay the University 50 percent of any revenues from
sublicenses. The University retains ownership of the invention and the right to
practice the invention for research and educational purposes. The University
also retains the right to grant a license to the United States government, as
may be required under the research sponsorship agreement. CMXR agrees to
use its best efforts to develop products and make the benefits of the invention
reasonably available to the public. There is no use of facilities or services of the
University included in the contract and no assignment of University employees
for fulfillment of the contract.
3.   The pecuniary interest is that Gerard Mourou owns 8.2 percent of the
outstanding shares of Clark-MXR, Inc. Professor Mourou has waived participation in royalties under the Regents' policy and will receive his return, if any,
solely through his ownership interest in the company.
Proposed License Agreement with Selective Technologies, Inc. (STI)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved a proposed license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Selective Technologies, Inc. (STI). Because two University professors, Mark Meyerhoff and Glenn Martin, hold an equity interest in STI, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan conflict of interest statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and STI, a company in
which Professors Meyerhoff and Martin hold an equity interest.
2.   Contract terms include the following: payment to the University by STI of 4
percent of the net sales of products which incorporate selected technologies.
STI shall also pay to the University 15 percent of all gross sublicensing
revenues for revenues under $50,000 and 25 percent of all gross sublicensing
revenues once these revenues exceed $50,000. Beginning in 1997, an annual
license maintenance fee will be imposed which requires payment to the
University by STI of $1,000 for the first two years, and a fee of $2,000 imposed
for every subsequent year during the term of the agreement.
The agreement remains in effect until the latest patent expires or ten years after the first sale of product, whichever is earlier.
The University will retain ownership of the technology, granting an exclusive
commercialization license to STI. The University will retain the right to use
the technology internally.
STI will use its best efforts to effectively commercialize the programs and will
make reasonable attempts to manufacture all products within the United
States.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of both employees arises from their ownership interest
in STI. In accordance with University policy, Professor Meyerhoff, as a coinventor, will waive any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from STI.


126




November Meeting, 1994


Capital Outlay Request, 1995-96, All Campuses
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a request for approval to
submit to the state of Michigan a number of projects for the 1995-96 capital
outlay request. Following some discussion, Regent Varner moved approval of the
1995-96 Capital Outlay Request for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Establishment of Instructional Departments in the School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the establishment of two instructional departments in the
School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The two departments are the Department of Accounting and Finance and the Department of
Management, Marketing, Information Systems and Decision Science.
Implementation of Regents' Bylaw Sec. 14.06
Regent Baker observed that he had been informed by the secretary that as
part of the implementation of Regents' Bylaw Sec. 14.06, the University would
begin offering benefits for same sex partners of University faculty and staff, effective January 1, 1995. He had asked to have this issue brought before the Regents
before the task force recommendations were implemented, and asked that the
benefits offering be delayed until such time as the Regents could review the
matter.
Provost Whitaker observed that following the meeting at which the bylaw
change was approved, the administration had proceeded to implement it, based
on the understanding that approval of the bylaw change meant that discrimination against groups included in the bylaw should cease as soon as legal issues
could be resolved.
Regent Baker said that he had not seen the general counsel's report on the
matter until he'd asked for it, and that the matter should have been fully
discussed by the Regents. Regent McGowan responded that with the Board's
approval of the bylaw change, the president and the administration had been
given the responsibility for implementing the nondiscrimination and affirmative
action policy. They had proceeded accordingly, as the Regents had directed, and
she appreciated the president's leadership on this issue.
Regent McFee stated that she stands by her original decision to approve the
bylaw, but had raised specific questions about the implementation when the
Regents had received the task force report in May 1994. She believed that there
had been an understanding that all of the Board would be kept apprised of the
implementation process as it developed. She said that she had not been apprised
by the administration that implementation had been moving forward, but rather
only learned it via a telephone call after letters had already been sent to staff
describing the new benefits policy. Regent McFee said that she had questions
about the legal opinion that the implementation had been based on and would
have appreciated having had an opportunity to discuss the matter prior to


127




November Meeting, 1994


implementation. Regent McFee said that because of the controversial nature of
the policy, implementation required a ful buy-in on the part of all of the Regents
as it went forward. The lack of communication between the administration and
the Board meant that this did not occur.
President Duderstadt agreed that communication was not handled
appropriately and accepted responsibility for the situation.
Regent Brown stated that he had not been informed in advance of the
implementation progress, either. His understanding was that the matter was to
have been brought back to the Board. He said that he supports the bylaw, but it
was not his understanding that it would extend to extension of benefits.
Regent McGowan pointed out that throughout the discussion, as indicated
in the minutes of the September 1993 and May 1994 meetings, it had been made
clear that the responsibility for implementation of the bylaw fell to the president
and his administration. Regent Deitch compared this issue to that of the Nike
contract that had been discussed earlier in the meeting, in which case the
Regents had not been involved in setting the policy regarding how the University
markets itself and how it defines its linkages with the private sector. In the case
of the bylaw, however, the Regents had been fully involved in setting the Board's
nondiscrimination policy and had left it to the president to implement.
Further discussion ensued, with Regent Baker stating that he had requested
that the issue be brought back to the Regents and that the matter should have
been discussed with all of the Regents prior to implementation. President
Duderstadt responded that he and all of the executive officers all believed that
they had been given the authority to move forward with implementation. There
was general consensus that there the issue of communication between the Board
and the administration needs to be addressed.
President's Salary
Regent Brown observed that under the Constitution of the state of Michigan, the Regents are obligated to set the salary of the president. He recalled that
last year the Regents had approved an equity adjustment for the president of
$16,666 per year for each of three years, and that this is the second year of that
program. For the merit portion of the president's salary increase, Regent Brown
moved an increase of 4.7 percent, which is equivalent to the average faculty
salary increase for 1994-95. Regent Deitch seconded the motion.
Regents Power and Brown pointed out that the equity adjustment is derived
from the Auxiliary Activities fimd, which does not include tax dollars. The vote
was then taken, and the motion was unanimously approved.
Public Comments
It was decided to hold the Public Comments session at 3:00 p.m., since there
was to be only one speaker, and she was in attendance at the meeting.


128




November Meeting, 1994


The Regents heard comments from Julie Neenan, president of the Michigan
Student Assembly, on the topic of student representation on the Board of
Regents. Regent McFee urged consideration of Ms. Neenan's proposal for
submission of a written report to be included with the Regents' monthly
agendas.
Adjournment
There being no further discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 3:10 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on December 15 and 16, 1994. Regents expenses
for the month of October 1994 totaled $238.21.


Harold R. Joh\json
Interim Secretary of the University


129




DECEMBER MEETING, 1994


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 15, 1994
The Regents met at 11:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Varner. Secretary Johnson was also present, as were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice President Harrison. Vice Presidents
Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick, were absent.
Regents Deitch and Waters arrived shortly after the start of the meeting.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called on Regent McGowan, who made the following
motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
December 15, 1994, to consider material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such
exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal
counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting then continued in executive session.
Public Meeting
The Regents met in public session at 1:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters. Secretary Johnson was also present, as
were Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal, and Chancellors Nelms and Renick.
Annual Report on Research for FY 1994
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Neal to present the Annual
Report on Research. Vice President Neal gave a multimedia presentation during
which he described the various kinds of research being conducted at the University, discussed issues related to funding, described the relationship between
research and instruction and what it is like to be a faculty researcher, and
addressed how the University will be affected by changes in research priorities
and funding occurring at the national level.
Vice President Neal reported that for the fourth consecutive year, the
University of Michigan is ranked first among all public universities nationally in
total research and development expenditures ($385,957,402 for FY1994), and
that since 1991, it has ranked second among all colleges and universities


131




December Meeting, 1994


nationally in these expenditures. He described efforts both on a national level
and at the University of Michigan to develop a national research philosophy and
policy.
Vice President Neal displayed graphs and charts showing trends in research
expenditures and breakdowns of these expenditures into various funding source
categories. After detailing recent accomplishments of the Office of the Vice President for Research, he concluded by showing a videotape in which researchers
around the University described their current projects.
Following his presentation, Vice President Neal thanked outgoing Regents
Brown and Waters for their support over the years and responded to comments
from the Regents.
Michigan Health Corporation
President Duderstadt called on Executive Vice President Womack; Mr. John
Forsyth, executive director of the University of Michigan Hospitals; and Dr. Giles
Bole, dean of the School of Medicine, to discuss the establishment of a subsidiary
health corporation. Executive Vice President Womack described the corporation
as a vehicle through which the University can participate in the development of a
managed care delivery system so as to both maintain and enhance the education
and research missions of the institution. He noted that this proposal was being
made in response to the reforms taking place in the health care delivery system
as well as in recognition of the fact that the current tertiary care system would
not be able to provide the kinds of training experiences needed by medical
students.
Mr. Forsyth pointed out that this proposal is rooted in the University's
academic mission and is consistent with the leadership position that the
University has traditionally held in relation to other academic health centers
nationally. The establishment of a separate corporation provides a platform for
adjusting to future change, as the nation moves from a fee for service to a
managed care health care delivery systems, while at the same time continuing to
serve the needs of the people of the state and the medical school. The separate
corporation will provide the structure and flexibility needed for the Hospitals to
continue to be a national leader in health care delivery.
Dean Bole observed that this proposal is unique and, combined with the
new Medical School curriculum and new East Medical Campus, will allow the
University to move forward in a time of uncertainty. He described the proposal
as "revolutionary," one that has no counterpart at any other institution, and that
is intimately tied to positioning the University to be the "last survivor" of the
academic health system.
Regent Varner moved approval of the concept, plan, and process for
establishing and operating a University of Michigan Subsidiary Health
Corporation to pursue managed care interests for the Medical Center, as outlined
in the Regents Communication. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Executive
Vice President Womack pointed out that the list of officers shown in the Regents


132




December Meeting, 1994


Communication should be corrected to show John Forsyth as "president and
treasurer," not "treasurer" as stated, since he will be the principal operating
officer.
Regents Baker and McFee expressed support for the proposal, noting that it
will enhance the University's service function by helping to improve health care
for citizens state-wide.
Regent McGowan read from a prepared statement, in which she expressed
support for the due diligence that the administration had pursued in preparing
this proposal. A copy of Regent McGowan's statement is on file in the Office of
the Secretary of the University. She noted that the president and other administrators had obtained legal opinions and had also assured the Regents that they
personally believe this proposal to be in the best interest of the University in its
mission of training health care professionals, and that she intended to support
the proposal. However, Regent McGowan emphasized that she "did not intend to
give one inch on the constitutional responsibility of the Board of Regents to exercise on behalf of the people of Michigan fll fiduciary and legal responsibilities for
the actions of this university." She noted that if in the future she had any
concerns as to whether the Michigan Health Corporation would impede that
oversight responsibility, she would not hesitate to assure "appropriate
alterations."
Regent Power expressed support for Regent McGowan's comments and for
the establishment of the corporation as a means for enabling the University to
continue to carry out its basic mission of education, research, and service. Regent
Varner also supported the proposition, but expressed concerns about the
Regents' ability to provide adequate oversight, given that the bylaws only call for
annual meetings. She requested that quarterly reports be provided to the
Regents during the initial period of the corporation's establishment.
President Duderstadt observed that in the early stages of the development
of M-Care, the Board of Regents received reports at least quarterly as well as any
time important decisions were involved. Similarly, more frequent reporting to
the Board is appropriate and is planned during the early years of the Michigan
Health Corporation, until such time as the Regents decide that less frequent
reporting will suffice.
Regent Deitch reported that over the past several months the Regents had
had extensive dialogue with leaders of the administration about this venture, and
that the administration had responded forthrightly to all concerns expressed by
the Regents. He noted that the University "intends to go out and be extraordinarily competitive and extraordinarily creative" in maintaining the excellence
with which it has long been associated, and that the Regents are "absolutely
united" and "absolutely confident" behind the leadership of the institution.
Regent Brown also expressed support for the proposal, while observing that
the basic reason for it is to serve the educational needs of students in the health
care field.


133




December Meeting, 1994


There being no further comments, the vote was taken, and the motion to
establish the Michigan Health Corporation was approved unanimously. The
Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Michigan Health Corporation are
included with the Regents Conmmunication on file in the Office of the Secretary of
the University.
Student Representation on the Board of Regents
Regent Waters stated that he had intended to offer a resolution to have a
member of the student body serve as an ex officio member of the Board of
Regents, but that he was withdrawing the proposal at this time, with the
understanding that the issue would be on the agenda at the February 1995 meeting. He invited Ms. Julie Neenan, president of the Michigan Student Assembly,
to the table to discuss the issue of student representation on the Board of
Regents.
Ms. Neenan reported that this notion had been placed before the students at
the MSA election the preceding March and had been approved by 97 percent of
the students who voted. Ms. Neenan addressed some of the concerns that had
been raised, including questions of constitutionality and of the possibility that
other constituencies would also seek representation on the Board. She also
pointed out that many other universities around the state and nation have
students represented on their boards.
Regent McFee complimented Ms. Neenan on her presentation and said she
was looking forward to discussing this issue when it comes up on the agenda in
1995. President Duderstadt observed that there appeared to be strong interest
among the Regents in improving the Board's dialogue with the student body and
in providing additional opportunities for input. Ms. Neenan thanked Regent Waters for bringing this issue before the Board.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of November 17, 1994.
Consent Agenda
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. He commented
on the recently reported bankruptcy of Orange County, California, which was
reported in the media to be related to the county's use of derivatives and leverage
as investment vehicles. Executive Vice President Womack observed that these
tools were not to blame; rather the mistake was in adopting an inappropriately
risky investment strategy that was entirely at odds with the purpose of the fund.
He explained that the University's use of derivatives and leverage is appropriate
in the context of its entire investment strategy, which employs diversification as
a key means of decreasing risk.


134




December Meeting, 1994


Following some discussion about investment strategies, Vice President Neal
submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current
research for the month of November 1994.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of
voluntary support and announced that the Campaign for Michigan had reached a
level of $706 million.
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for software systems for the Networked Computing Fund in the College of
Engineering and for support in the School of Natural Resources............................................................94,838
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for  em ployee  m atching   gifts.................................................................................................................................. 5,050
Aeroquip, Maumee, Ohio
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering......................................................................... 5,000
Randolph J. Agley, Detroit
6,000 shares of F&M      Distributors, Inc., common stock for the Randolph J. Agley
Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............................................................22,875
Air Products Foundation, Allentown, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program and the BBSA Alumni Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration and for chemical engineering support in the College of
E n g in e e rin g..............................................................................................................................................................................................6,5 0 0
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
for the Detroit Compact Program         in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............5,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for  research   in   th e  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................50 000
George E. Amendt, Ann Arbor
900 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland common stock
for  support  in   the  School  of  M usic....................................................................................................................................24,806
American Association of University Women, Ann Arbor
for  the  M ary  E. B. M arkley  Scholarship........................................................................................................................45,000
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Institute of Science and Technology..................................................125,201
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for  research   in   th e  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................27,490
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 5 8,6 4 5
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for  research   in   th e  M edical  S ch ool........................................................................................................................................7,000
David C. Angell, Eau Claire, Wisconsin
218 shares of ConAgra, Inc., common stock
for the A. James French Endowed Professorship in the Medical School...............................................6,676
Anonymous Donor
for the Elliott Pearlman Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources...........................................5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....54,333
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for  th e  U niversity   M u sical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program       in the School of Business Administration................................................10,000
BP America, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program       in the School of Business Administration...................................................9,000
Daniel R. Balbach, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Medstat Group, Inc., common stock
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic Fund in the School of Dentistry.........................................................5,325
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy and other support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for support in the Colleges of Engineering
and  A rchitecture   and  U rban  Planning...........................................................................................................................37,500
Terry A. Barr, Bloomfield Township
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................20,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for  su pport  in   th e  M edical  S chool.......................................................................................................................................10,000


135




December Meeting, 1994


Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the  Alvin  M. and  Arvella  D. Bentley  Scholarship........................................................................................40000
Herbert M. Blair III, Spring Lake
for the William    B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School..........................................................5,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Robert W. and Lynn H. Browne Professorship in Science, College of
L iteratu re,  S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................45,000
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School.......................................................................................150,000
CNA Insurance, Continental Casualty Company, Chicago, Illinois f
or mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................................5,000
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
1,345 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for  the  H ill Auditorium    R estoration  Fund.............................................................................................................. 39,341
Alfred and Geraldine Cohn Trust
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering............................................................................ 26,038
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................................................... 20,000
Alfred B. Connable, Kalamazoo
160 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for   G ift s   P en din g   D esign ation..................................................................................................................................................5, 070
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 0 0 0 0
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for  research    in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 32,400
Gladys E. Davis Trust
for the Gladys E. Davis Endowment Funds in the Medical School and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Gladys E. Davis Alumnae Council
Endow   ed  Scholarship   in  the  Alum ni Association................................................................................................. 23,171
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit
for the Helen DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School and for scholarships
in   th e   D ep artm ent  of  A th letics.............................................................................................................................................5 1,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice, the University of
M ich ig an -D earb orn......................................................................................................................................................................... 15,0 0 0
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for research in configuration mechanisms in the College of Engineering.........................................25,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering and
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology..........................................5,500
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering.........................................6,698
George L. Farr, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the George L. Farr Merit Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..............10,000
Firefighters Charitable Foundation, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.........................5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for International Business 745 support in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the University Musical Society.................33,400
GSE, Inc., Farmington Hills
for support in the Medical School in memory of John Black Hodges.......................................................5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for fellowships in electrical and computer engineering and for the Minority
Engineering Program       in the College of Engineering..........................................................................................25,000
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering...........................5,000
Matthew B. Gerson, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
A d m in istr a tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................... 5,0 0 0
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, DC
Ro  ----- A;- LJ1.L of          T ifJ.L.;-"  n  cr;nrr  f-"e  i   A-r.o          K nnLr


ior supports in bM-ujae uouege oi i-inerature, science, abtj, kna -une i-b.Lns


136




December Meeting, 1994


James F. Goodrich, Cumberland Foreside, Maine
289 shares of Pepsico common stock
for the James F. Goodrich Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of   th e   C ollege   of   E n gin eerin g....................................................................................................................................................9,971
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for the Minority Education Program, the College of Engineering Cooperative
Education Program, and other support in the College of Engineering........................................          10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................97,336
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for    the   M ary   E. B. M arkley   Scholarship........................................................................................................................45,000
Glenn E. Guthrie, Appleton, Wisconsin
400 shares of Kelly Services, Inc., Class A common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................10,950
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Scholarship in Chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Michigan League Development Fund...............................................5,050
Eugene L. Hartwig, Troy
5,424 shares of General Motors, Class E, common stock for the Hartwig Endowment
in the School of Education and for support of the Law                  School...................................................................99,327
Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett C. Helzberg Doctoral Fellowship in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Brian Hempstead, Saginaw
for the Justin Hempstead Scholarship in the School of Nursing..............................................................25,000
Henry Ford Health System, Detroit
for the Program       in Hospital Administration Alumni Fund, School of Public Health..............11,575
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for  the  State   of  Israel  B onds  Fund....................................................................................................................................10,000
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
200 shares of Kelloggs Company common stock
for research and other support in the Medical School..........................................................................................5,938
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Merle Lawrence Professorship in the Medical School...................................................................100,000
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................15,000
Intel Corporation Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for the HPS
Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................................................60,000
Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William      R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law             School.............................................................121,839
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory Operating Fund in the Medical School................................10,000
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Group, Plymouth
for the Solar Car Project and other support in the College of Engineering........................................6,400
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for   em ployee     m atch in g   gift s.......................................................................................................................................................7,590
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health....................................................................... 474,829
K-I Chemical Research Institute Company, Ltd., Shizuko, Japan
for QSAR research in the College of Pharmacy.........................................................................................................5,000
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Juan Tienda Scholarship in the Law                School............................................................................................10,000
Brian C. Kuttner, Saline
for the IOE Computer Graphics Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................9,700
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for  research     in   th e  M edical  S ch ool........................................................................................................................................8,9 10
Julie H. Levy, Bloomfield Hills
for the Julie Levy Bridge Program in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................7 90 0 0
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 18,0 0 0
Paul C. Lipschutz, Middletown, New York
195 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for  su pport   in   th e  M edical  S chool..........................................................................................................................................9,872


137




December Meeting, 1994


Fra E. Loomis, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
1,780 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Fra Edna Loomis-Taylor
Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School...............................................................................105,346
Louisiana Land and Exploration Company Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana
for the Constance G. Eirich Geology Endowment in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts......................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................................................. 200,000
Carol DeBruin Lyons, Shawnee Mission, Kansas
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program                   in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................................................10,000
Fred W. Lyons, Jr., Shawnee Mission, Kansas
9,670 shares of Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., common stock
for the Fred W. Lyons, Jr. Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 238,124
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research   in  the  School  of  E ducation................................................................................................................... 127,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................13,750
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................................................................29,150
Meister Family Trust
for the Susan Blanch Meister Endowed Fund in the School of Nursing............................................20,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................300,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry and the Norman
M  ette  Scholarship   in  the  M edical  School................................................................................................................... 110,000
Mexican Town Restaurant, Inc., Detroit
for the Vision Research Discretionary Fund in the Medical School........................................................50,000
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health...........................................................................65,772
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering......................................32,000
Jack Moore Trust
for the Jack and Marjorie W. Moore Scholarship in the Medical School................................................9,806
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................................................5,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for support in the Museum of Art and for the Ann Arbor Flower Show, College
of  L iterature,  Science,  and    the  A rts................................................................................7..................................................7,500
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Township
for support in the School of Art...........................................................................................................................................10,000
William D. Myers, Bloomfield Township
for  support   in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................10,000
NEC Corporation, Kanagawa, Japan
for  support   in  the  College  of  Engineering...1.............................................0..................................................................10,000
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law..........................................................26,050
National Geographic Society, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................... 18,000
National Organization for Hearing Research, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for the Merle Lawrence Professorship in the Medical School.....................................................................20,000
Oakwood Hospital Corporation, Dearborn
for the Program in Hospital Administration Alumni Fund, School of
P u b lic   H e a lth....................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 1,5 7 5
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
Three shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock
for the Helen Olson Brower Memorial Fellowship in Environmental Studies,
College   of  Literature, Science, and     the  A rts..............................................................................................................61,050
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and
for  em ployee    m atch in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,450
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for fellowships in electrical and computer engineering, College of Engineering.............................8,714
Judy Philbrick Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................................. 7,500


138




December Meeting, 1994


Michael and Eleanor Pinkert Foundation, McLean, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan......................................................................................5,000
Post 29 Amvets, Mount Clemens
for Burn Development Research and Education in the Medical School............................................8,416
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Davis, California
for  research     in   the  M edical  S chool.....................................................................................................................................  6,250
Barbara Richardson, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Barbara Trytten Richardson Graduate Student Aid Fund in the
S ch o o l  o f  A rt................................................................................................................................................... 5 0 0 0 0
Peter J. Rosewig, Hobe Sound, Florida
for  tennis  facilities  in  the  D epartm  ent  of Athletics.................................................................................................5,000
Jack Roth, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................................................................35,000
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
100 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................................................................................7,481
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................37,858
Seariver Maritime, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Center for Ergonomics Affiliate Program               in the College of Engineering.........................20,000
Dennis G. Severance, Ann Arbor
107 shares of Chrysler Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.........................................................................................5,116
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Loyal Crew       Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................................................5,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Sonoma, California
for the Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting in the School of Music.......................................100,000
Allen L. Sinai, Lexington, Massachusetts
3,846 shares of Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up Companies, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................98,313
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School..............11,369
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art and for the University
o f  M ich ig an   H o sp itals.................................................................................................................................................................. 10,10 0
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the  School  of  E ducation........................................................................................................................ 12,000
Obert C. and Grace A. Tanner Foundation, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecturer in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 9,5 0 0
Bruce E. Thal, Birmingham
1,000 shares of CyCare Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................12,125
Toray Industries (America), Inc., New York, New York
for  support   in  the  College  of  E ngineering....................................................................................................................13,000
Ivan Trevor Trust
for support in the School of Information and Library Studies in memory of
E lo ise   T re v o r.................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 5,0 0 0
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity    M usical  Society..................................................................................................................................... 15,000
United Airlines Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n......................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
University of Michigan Band Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Band Alumni Fund in the School of Music..........................................................................4,500
University of Michigan Club of Denver, Denver, Colorado
for the Denver University of Michigan Club Scholarship in the Alumni Association.................8,214
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering, for the
Clements Library, and for employee matching gifts..............................................................................................6,500
Douglas E. Van Houweling, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Information Technology Division..............................................................5,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke Davis Fellowships, Professorships, and other
Funds in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and in the Horace H. Rackham               School of Graduate Studies...................................747,000


139




December Meeting, 1994


William M. Wetsman, Birmingham
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
A dm inistration.....................................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Sidney J. Winer, West Bloomfield
400 shares of Philip Morris common stock
for the Sidney J. Winer Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts..................................................17....................................................................................2 4
John B. Woodward III, Ann Arbor
1,925 shares of NationsBank Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the John B. Woodward II Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of  the   C ollege   of  E ngineering......................................................................................................................................   100,002
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for  the  S.K. Yee  Scholarship  in  the  Law   School......................................................................................................50,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Edward H. Abbott, Ann Arbor
an Eltech Turbo XT Plus computer with a monitor, modem, and other related equipment
for the Alumni Association
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
five PWRBK 165 4/60 computers with modems for the School of Business Administration
Genesys Health System, Flint
a nerve and muscle stimulator for the University of Michigan-Flint Department of Physical
Therapy
La-Z-Boy Chair Company, Monroe
a La-Z-Boy glider rocker for Holden Neonatal ICU
Margaret K. Peterson, Sykesville, Maryland
a manuscript journal and orderly book of Seth Tinkham dated 1759 for the Clements Library
Douglas H. Roehm, Auburn Hills
two Columbia Parcar golf carts for the Alumni Association
Sapphire Instruments, Kingsville, Ontario, Canada
a SI2B meter with external coil for the Department of Geological Sciences
Additional gifts ranging from         $1 to $999 in value were received from           the following donors:


Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor
Michihiko Akiyama, Ann Arbor
Karen A. Arnould, Flushing
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor
Catherine E. Bach, Ann Arbor
Robin Barlow, Ann Arbor
Theodore C. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
Charles C. Brown, Ann Arbor
John R. Chamberlin, Ann Arbor
Alan V. Deardorff, Ann Arbor
Joan Downing, Pocatello, ID
Allan R. Emery, Ann Arbor
Daniel R. Fusfeld, Ann Arbor
John Harriman, Ann Arbor
Virginia Harvey, Sun City, AZ
Janet L. Herman, Coldwater
Sydney W. Jackman, Victoria, BC,
CANADA
Gregory A. Jacobs, Dearborn Heights
Miles Kimball, Ann Arbor


Linda Kinczkowski, Novi
Jan Kmenta, Ann Arbor
Shirley R. Kowalski, White Lake
Tonya K. Lane, Flushing
Jean L. Loup, Ann Arbor
Jeffrey K. Mackie-Mason, Ann Arbor
Lawrence B. Mohr, Ann Arbor
Richard C. Porter, Ann Arbor
Dorothy Rapport, Flint
Matthew D. Shapiro, Ann Arbor
Joel B. Slemrod, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Robert Therrien, Round Lake, IL
Traditional Healing Films, Southfield
Lois M. Verbrugge, Ann Arbor
Janet Weiss, Ann Arbor
Thomas E. Weisskopf, Ann Arbor
Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
Clarence Wolf, Philadelphia, PA


Provost's Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted personnel actions, personnel reports, retirement memoirs, and memorial statements. There were no
actions with respect to degrees this month. President Duderstadt noted that
Professor Ejner Jensen would be assuming the role of interim secretary of the
university as of January 1, 1995.


140




December Meeting, 1994


Personnel Actions
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Adamson, Thomas C., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, returned to active
status, one-year term, December 1, 1994
DeKornfeld, Thomas J., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, returned to active status,
one-year term
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, returned to active status, one-year term
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, returned to active status, one-year term
Nisbett, Richard E., appointment extended as Director, Research Center for Group Dynamics,
six-month term
Taylor, William B., Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, returned to active status, one-year term,
July 1, 1994
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC AMI           INISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Bissell, R. Ward, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair,
Department of History of Art, eight-month term
Goodsitt, Mitchell M., Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, with tenure, Medical School,
also appointed Associate Professor of Radiological Health, without tenure, School of Public
Health, seven-year term
Johnson, Robert E., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, and Associate Dean, College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, also appointed Acting Dean, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, four-month term, February 1, 1995
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Interim Dean,
College of Engineering, January 1, 1995
Syverud, Kent D., Professor of Law, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs, Law School, two-year term
Ten Haken, Randall K., Associate Professor of Radiation Therapy, with tenure, Medical School,
also appointed Associate Professor of Radiological Health, without tenure, School of Public
Health, seven-year term
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1995
Kahn, David L., Assistant Professor of Nursing, personal leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Jensen, Ejner J., Special Counsel to the President and Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure, also appointed Interim Secretary of the University,
four-month term


141




December Meeting, 1994


Kerr, Philip, Professor of Theatre, with tenure, also appointed the Claribel Baird Halstead
Collegiate Professor of Theatre, three-year term, September 1, 1995
Korsgaard, Christine M., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence,
March 27-31, 1995
Sherman, Roger P., William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business Administration,
six-month term
Duncan 0. and Ella M. Poth Distinguished Professorship in Dermatology. The Regents approved the establishment of the Duncan 0. and Ella
M. Poth Distinguished Professorship in Dermatology, effective December 16,
1994.
Harold RL Johnson Professorship in            Social Work.      The Regents
approved the establishment of the Harold R. Johnson Professorship in Social
Work, effective December 1, 1994.
Interim   Appointment Approval. The Regents authorized the president
or the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make such
interim  appointments and/or changes as may be come necessary during the
month of January 1995 to complete the staffing for the winter term.
Committee appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc., Board of Trustees
Boylan, Paul C., retroactively reappointed, three-year term ending November 15, 1997
Fischer, Kenneth C., retroactively reappointed, three-year term ending November 15, 1997
Jernigan, Gerald D., retroactively reappointed, three-year term ending November 15, 1997
Krumm, William B., retroactively reappointed, three-year term ending November 15, 1997
Malcolm, Judith W., retroactively appointed, one-year term ending November 15, 1995, vice
Frank C. Williams, Jr., resigned
Schumacher, Hazen J., retroactively reappointed, three-year term ending November 15, 1997
School of Art Executive Committee
Castagnacci, Vincent E., one-month term ending December 31, 1994, vice Sherril A. Smith,
sabbatical leave
Lee, Denis C., seven-month term ending June 30, 1995, vice Kenneth W. Baird, resigned
Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Law School
Dean, Warren T., M.A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, November 14, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bazzett, Terence J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, September 1, 1994
Farley, Gail A, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, September 1, 1994
Gerdes, David W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, September 1, 1994
Lee, Shin-Yun, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, January 1, 1995
Watkins, Richard W., Jr., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, September 1, 1994
Medical School
Howlin, Diane L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, November 1, 1994


142




December Meeting, 1994


MacDonald, Graeme, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, October 1, 1994
Macoska, Jill A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Surgery, November 1, 1994
McDonald, Marie T., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
November 1, 1994
Patrias, Rebecca L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, November 1, 1994
Rosenberg, Jack M., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, November 1, 1994
Taussig, Ronald, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, October 15, 1994
Weech, Mark A., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, November 7, 1994
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Nursing
Michels, Nicholas, M.S., Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing, September 1, 1993
(previously reported as assistant professor)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Blaum, Caroline S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, December 1, 1994
Kuhn, Janet L., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Assistant Research Scientist,
October 1, 1994
Mosca, Ralph S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, November 1, 1994
Woodcock, Brian J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology,
September 1, 1994
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Clayton, Joseph A, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1995
Ridley, Karen J., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, extended sick leave, September 22, 1994 -September 21, 1996
College of Engineering
Palsson, Bernhard O., George Granger Brown Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with
tenure, leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Woodroofe, Michael B., Leonard J. Savage Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Medical School
Brunberg, James A, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Neurology, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-October 31, 1994, and January 1-April 30, 1995
UM-Flint School of Management
Ludwick, Mark H., Assistant Professor of Management, School of Management, and
Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Arts and Sciences, leave without salary,
September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995


143




December Meeting, 1994


TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Law School
Katz, Avery, Professor of Law, with tenure, resigned, December 31, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Davis, Roger E., Professor of Psychology, without tenure, retired, June 30, 1994
Depree, Alyce B., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete, April 30, 1994
Kelly, William C., C. Scott Turner Professor of Geological Sciences, retired, August 31, 1994
McNaught, Andrew S., Lecturer II in Biology, term complete, May 31, 1994
McShea, Daniel W., Lecturer II in Biology and Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, resigned,
December 31, 1994
Ronen, Irena, Lecturer II in Russian Literature, term complete, December 31, 1993
Medical School
Berkowitz, Caryn M., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, November 1, 1994
Carroll, William R., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, resigned, October 31, 1994
Duff, Ivan F., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, deceased, October 27, 1994
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1994
Retirement Memoirs
Allan R. Emery, professor of chemistry at the University of MichiganDearborn, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1994, after a
most productive career as a teacher, researcher, and computer specialist.
Professor Emery received his B.A degree from Ohio Wesleyan University in
1951, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry from the University of Michigan in 1953 and 1957, respectively. From     1958-60, he was employed by the
Mobil Oil Corporation, where he began programming computers to perform
various calculations related to the kinetics of hydrocarbon reactions.
In 1960, Professor Emery arrived at the University's newly-established
Dearborn campus as an assistant professor of chemistry. His first assignment
was to establish the academic program in chemistry and to outfit the chemistry
laboratories with appropriate apparatus and instrumentation. He then turned
his attention toward introducing computer usage into the laboratories, particularly into the physical chemistry laboratory. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1964 and professor in 1968.
Professor Emery's interests in computer technology led to his involvement
in the early development of the Michigan Terminal Systems (MTS) during a
sabbatical leave in 1966.   Following the leave, Professor Emery continued
working with the MTS system half-time until 1969 and was instrumental in the
installation of the first MTS remote batch station on the Dearborn campus.
From 1969-88, Professor Emery held several increasingly responsible positions at
the UM-Ann Arbor Computing Center. As assistant director (1969-72), he
devoted much time to the expansion of the center's physical facilities, including
all building phases of the then new Computing Center. As associate director
(1972-77), acting director (1977-78), and then deputy director (1979-88), he
helped further develop the physical facilities, expand the hardware facilities,
formulate and implement policies for improvement of computing services for
both mainframe and personal computers, and review financial plans for the
Computing Center.


144




December Meeting, 1994


In 1989, Professor Emery rejoined the faculty at the University of MichiganDearborn, where he has continued implementation of computer usage in both introductory general chemistry courses and advanced physical chemistry laboratory experiments.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physical chemist for his dedicated
service by naming Allan R. Emery professor emeritus of chemistry.
William C. Kelly, C. Scott Turner Professor of Geological Sciences and
former vice president for research, retired from active faculty status on August
31, 1994, after a highly productive career as a teacher, researcher, and
administrator.
Professor Kelly received his AB. degree in 1951 from Columbia College and
his AM. and Ph.D. degrees in 1953 and 1954, respectively, from Columbia
University. He served briefly as an instructor at Hunter College and then joined
the U.S. Army Operations Research Office, where he served from 1954-56.
Professor Kelly came to the University of Michigan in 1956 as an instructor in
geology and mineralogy. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1958, associate professor in 1962, and professor in 1967. He was appointed the C. Scott
Turner Professor of Geological Sciences in 1983. Professor Kelly served as chair
of the Department of Geology and Mineralogy from 1978-81 and as interim director of the Institute of Science and Technology from 1986-87. He was appointed
associate vice president for research in January 1989 and interim vice president
for research in July 1989. He served as vice president for research from 1990-93.
Throughout his career, Professor Kelly was noted for his imaginative and
thorough research. He undertook major studies of tin deposits in Bolivia,
tin-tungsten deposits in Portugal, copper deposits in Michigan, and gold-telluride
deposits in Colorado. He also developed innovative research methods, including
the analysis of fluid inclusion contents by electron microbeam methods. His
work has been widely recognized by his peers through many awards, including
the prestigious Penrose Award of the Society of Economic Geologists.
Professor Kelly also excelled as a scientific citizen and teacher. He served
the Society of Economic Geologists in a succession of posts, culminating in the
presidency in 1984. He was advisor or co-advisor for 37 master's degree and 27
Ph.D. students, many of whom went on to success in industry, academia, and
government. Perhaps the best indication of the esteem in which he is held is the
fact that 25 of his former students, from the U.S., Canada, Venezuela, and Switzerland, came to a recent dinner in honor of his retirement.
The Regents now salute his achievements by naming William C. Kelly vice
president emeritus for research and C. Scott Turner Professor Emeritus of
Geological Sciences.
Jack L. Kostyo, professor of physiology in the Medical School, will retire
from active faculty status on December 31, 1994, after a long and productive
career.
A native of Ohio, Professor Kostyo received his AB. degree from Oberlin
College in 1953 and his Ph.D. degree from Cornell University in 1957. He
pursued further research training at Harvard University, and in 1959 he joined
the faculty of Duke University as assistant professor of physiology. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1961 and professor in 1966. In 1968, he


145




December Meeting, 1994


moved to Emory University, where he served eleven years as professor and chair
of the Department of Physiology.
In 1979, Professor Kostyo joined the University of Michigan as professor
and chair of the Department of Physiology. As department chair, he played a key
role in developing strength in new areas of cellular physiology. Since 1986, he
has served as professor of physiology and associate director of the Michigan
Diabetes Research and Training Center. A dedicated teacher, Professor Kostyo's
enormous breadth of knowledge in endocrinology contributed to his insightful
and comprehensive lectures, which were always exceptionally well received. His
interest in teaching also led to his involvement in the National Board of Medical
Examiners.
Professor Kostyo's research concerns the action of growth hormone on its
target cells, particularly muscle and fat, and its role in metabolic alterations
associated with diabetes. He is a world renowned expert on structure-function
relationships in the growth hormone molecule, and he also developed a unique
animal model to study the diabetogenic effects of growth hormone. Professor
Kostyo is a recipient of the Endocrine Society's Ernest Oppenheimer Memorial
Award and received an honorary M.D. degree from the University of Gbteborg.
He has played leadership roles in a number of scientific societies, including the
American Physiological Society and the Endocrine Society, and he served as
editor of the journal Endocrinology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Jack L. Kostyo professor emeritus of physiology.
William  P. Malm, professor of music (music history/musicology), will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1994.
Professor Malm studied at Northwestern University, earning his B.M.
degree in music composition in 1949 and his M.M. degree in 1950. He then
served for one year as an instructor at the University of Illinois, followed by
military service as an instructor at the U.S. Naval School of Music in
Washington, D.C. (1951-53). After another year as a free-lance pianist and
composer in New York City, Professor Maim continued his graduate education at
UCLA, where he received his Ph.D. degree in ethnomusicology in 1959 and
served as a lecturer in music from 1958-60. He came to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor of music in 1960; he was promoted to associate
professor in 1963 and professor in 1966.
In 1966, Professor Malm received the University's Henry Russel Award.
Many other awards and grants followed, including support from the American
Council of Learned Societies, the Rockefeller Foundation, Exxon Foundation,
Japan Foundation, and several substantial subventions from the National
Endowment for the Humanities. Professor Maim held distinguished visiting
professorships at Baylor University (1977), the University of California at
Berkeley (1981), and the University of Iowa (1982), and has lectured at countless
institutions of higher learning in this country and abroad. He was awarded
Northwestern University's Alumni Merit Award in 1986, and was honored by
alumni of the University of Michigan School of Music that same year.
In addition to dozens of published articles, Professor Maim is the author of
six major books, among which Music Cultures of the Pacific, the Near East, and
Asia (Prentice-Hall, 1966; second edition, 1977), also translated into Japanese


146




December Meeting, 1994


and Spanish, must be regarded as especially influential. A new dimension was
added to Professor Malm's distinguished scholarship and teaching in 1980, when
he was appointed director of the Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments.
With typical elan, he brought the collection from the sidelines to center stage in
the life of the University community.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William P. Malm
professor emeritus of music (music history/musicology).
Joseph N. Payne, professor of mathematics education, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1994, after 37 years of service to the
University of Michigan.
Professor Payne received his B.S. degree from Roanoke College in 1949 and
his M.Ed. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Virginia in 1951 and 1955,
respectively.  He taught mathematics and science in secondary schools in
Virginia, Alabama, and Wisconsin from 1949-56 and was a visiting lecturer at the
University of Wisconsin from 1956-57. Professor Payne came to the University
of Michigan in 1957 as assistant professor in the School of Education and teacher
of mathematics at the University School. He was promoted to associate professor
in 1961 and professor in 1964. From 1975-76, he served as program manager in
mathematics, education directorate, National Science Foundation.
Within the School of Education, Professor Payne taught courses in elementary and middle school mathematics education and conducted research in mathematics instruction. He worked extensively with undergraduates and graduate
students, and received consistently excellent student evaluations. His committee
service included the School of Education Executive Committee and the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs (chair, 1969-70). Most recently, he
has served as the university coordinator for the Carpenter Professional Development School, an outgrowth of the Michigan Partnership for New Education.
This project involves working with public school teachers and students and with
University students to research and develop innovative instructional methods,
which are then put to use in the classroom.
Throughout his career, Professor Payne has been very active in professional
organizations, has consulted widely, and has been a frequent presenter at conferences and workshops. His recent scholarly publications include co-authorship of
chapters in Research Ideas for the Classroom: Early Childhood Mathematics,
edited by R. Jensen (Macmillan, 1993), and Mathematics for the Young Child
(NCTM, 1990). In 1959, Professor Payne co-authored (with A. Coxford) the
Algebra I and Algebra II series for Harcourt Brace Jovanovich; the books were
revised several times, most recently in 1990.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joseph N. Payne
professor emeritus of mathematics education.
Tahir M. Rizki, professor of zoology in the Department of Biology, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1994, following 33 years of
active service.
After receiving his B.S. (1944) and M.S. (1946) degrees in his native India,
Professor Rizki studied at Columbia University, from which he received his
Ph.D. degree in 1953. Following postdoctoral research appointments at Dartmouth College and Yale University, he was a faculty member at Reed College


147




December Meeting, 1994


from 1956-61. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as associate professor of zoology in 1961, and was promoted to professor in 1964. He has also been
a member of the University's Cancer Institute since 1986.
Professor Rizki has taught introductory and advanced courses, at both the
undergraduate and graduate level. Most of his teaching involved genetics; he
showed special skill in explaining not only basic genetics, but in showing how
genetic analysis illuminates fundamental processes in cellular and developmental
biology. Forty honors undergraduates, nine doctoral students, and several postdoctoral fellows studied under his direction.
Throughout his career, Professor Rizki collaborated closely in research with
his wife, Rose M. Rizki, who retired as a research scientist in the Department of
Biology in 1992. More than half of his 129 research publications are co-authored
with Rose Rizki. Their long collaboration is regarded with great respect both
inside and outside the department.
Professor Rizki's studies embraced a broad range of topics, extending from
the morphology and inter-specific competition to the biochemistry, cell biology,
development, and physiology of the celebrated fruit-fly, Drosophila. He is an
authority on blood cells, the genesis of melanotic tumors, and the insect's fat
body, which is somewhat analogous to the vertebrate liver. His recent research
on the mechanism by which a virus-like entity overcomes a host insect's defense
mechanisms opens new concepts of immune reactions in living organisms.
In appreciation of his many contributions, the Regents now salute this
faculty member by naming Tahir M. Rizki professor emeritus of zoology.
Stephen J. Tonsor, professor of history, retired from active faculty status
on August 31, 1994, following a long and active career as a teacher and writer.
Born in 1923 in Jerseyville, Illinois, he attended the University of Illinois
where, after interrupting his studies for three years of military service, he
received his AB. degree in 1948. He then studied at the universities of Zurich
(1948-49) and Munich (1953-54) and received his Ph.D. degree in history at the
University of Illinois in 1955.
Professor Tonsor joined the University of Michigan as an instructor in
history in 1954. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate
professor in 1964, and professor in 1971. The Distinguished Teacher Award he
received in 1962 attests to his success and devotion to teaching at all levels, from
undergraduate introductory surveys to upper-level courses, to graduate courses.
Professor Tonsor also guided a number of graduate students in their pursuit of
doctoral degrees in European intellectual and cultural history of the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
In addition to his work as a scholar, Professor Tonsor has for some time
been well known in the broader community outside the University. In scores of
articles and reviews, he has addressed both academic and nonacademic
audiences, sometimes separately and sometimes simultaneously. The numerous
themes he has treated-youth and education, the meaning of equality, religion,
historiography, culture, and others-have resonated widely and brought Professor Tonsor broad recognition. In 1972-73, he was the senior visiting research
fellow at the Hoover Institution, in 1969-72 he was consultant to the President's
Council of Economic Advisers, and for many years he has been closely associated


148




December Meeting, 1994


with the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research. Since 1970,
he has been associate editor of Modern Age.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for his dedicated service
by naming Stephen J. Tonsor professor emeritus of history.
Memorial Statements
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on October 22, 1994, of Paul KI Garlick, assistant professor
of mathematics at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Professor Garlick was born in Highland Park, Michigan, on November 1,
1938. He received his B.A. degree from Oakland University in 1963 and his
Ph.D. degree from New Mexico State University in 1974. He joined the faculty of
the University of Michigan-Flint in 1969.
As a mathematician, Paul was an algebraist, but his real specialty was problems. Throughout his career, he contributed interesting problems and ingenious
solutions in many branches of mathematics, in publication as well as in conversation with colleagues. His love of problems also inspired many students. In addition to his regular teaching duties, Paul spent countless hours preparing high
school and university students for a variety of mathematical problem-solving
competitions.
Paul's contributions to faculty governance were characterized by a deep
concern for the University of Michigan-Flint and uncanny insight into the
practical effects of complex proposals. A perennial member of the Nominating
Committee, he knew the faculty as well as anyone and had the essential feel for
people that that job requires.
His colleagues will long remember his unique view of life and incomparable
sense of humor. As we mourn his loss, our condolences go to his wife Inge, and
his sons, Xan, Thor, and David.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on November 28, 1994, of Mark Stuart Roth, associate
professor of internal medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology.
Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on November 14, 1955, Dr. Roth received
his M.D. degree from the Medical College of Wisconsin in 1981. Later in that
year, he came to the University of Michigan, where he pursued post-graduate
training in internal medicine (1981-84) and in the subspecialties of hematology
and medical oncology (1984-86). In 1986, he was appointed to the faculty of the
Department of Internal Medicine in the Division of Hematology/Oncology as an
instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1988 and then to associate
professor with tenure in 1993.
Dr. Roth specialized in the molecular genetics of cancer and was a pioneer in
the application of novel molecular technologies (e.g. the "polymerase chain reaction") to the detection of minimal residual tumors. By this approach, he was able
to identify individuals at high risk for relapse of their cancers (e.g. the recurrence
of leukemia after bone marrow transplantation) in advance of the usual signs
and symptoms of cancer recurrence. His development of sensitive molecular
assays to predict early relapse in high risk patients may make it possible to target
these individuals for aggressive and potentially curative forms of therapy.


149




December Meeting, 1994


As a leader in this new field of molecular medicine, Dr. Roth was the recipient of major grant awards from the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Defense (Breast Cancer Initiative), the American Cancer Society, and the
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan. He was the author of 27 published articles in the peer-reviewed medical literature, 4 book chapters, and numerous abstracts. At the time of his death, he was editing a book on the subject
of the molecular diagnosis of cancer (to be published posthumously). Dr. Roth
was a member of the American Society of Hematology and the Central Society
for Clinical Research; he was a scientific and medical consultant for the Blood
Center of Southeastern Wisconsin.
In addition to his scientific achievements, Dr. Roth was a talented and
highly respected clinical specialist (a "doctor's doctor" who was chosen by his
peers as their personal physician), and a mainstay of the University Hospitals'
Adult Bone Marrow Transplantation Program. Moreover, he was widely recognized as being among the department's best medical educators serving as clinical
mentor for medical students and physician trainees.
Despite the pressures of his busy academic life, Dr. Roth was a devoted
father to his children, Sarah and Daniel, and to his wife Janet. An avid sports
enthusiast, he always found time to be coach and cheerleader for his children's
many athletic activities. Active in community service, Dr. Roth spent part of his
vacations serving as a volunteer physician at "Camp Catch-A-Rainbow," a camp
for children with cancer, and also served on the medical advisory board of the
Children's Leukemia Foundation (1990-91).
Mark will be remembered as a dear friend, an uncompromising family man,
a loyal faculty colleague, a compassionate and trusted doctor, an inspiring
teacher, and a "rising star" physician-scientist whose sudden and premature
death at age 39 is a profound and incalculable loss. As we mourn his death, our
condolences go to his wife Janet, his son Daniel, and his daughter Sarah.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by
Regent Waters, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda,
Proxy Voting
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's delegating proxy voting responsibility to
its external equity managers, with the requirement that they follow the University's broad proxy voting guidelines but not the specific voting directives, as
outlined in the Regents Communication.
Global Common Stock Management of the University Endowment
Fund
Regent Power moved the appointment of Marvin & Palmer Associates and
Marathon Asset Management as investment managers, and also moved that the
policies limiting non-U.S. equity investments to 25 percent and non-U.S. bonds
investments to 10 percent of the University Endowment Fund be lifted. Regent
Brown seconded the motion. Following some discussion, the vote was taken, and
the motion was approved unanimously.


150




December Meeting, 1994


Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10.0 million of the University Endowment Fund to Brookdale Investors, L.P., pending favorable review of the
documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's office and
completion of due diligence.
RIMCO Partners V, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the $5 million
commitment to RIMCO Partners V, L.P., approved in February 1994, is void, as
its offering of a fund for energy industry loans with equity features has been
canceled.
33841 Manta Court, Dana Point, California
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following: acceptance of the property at 33841 Manta
Court, Dana Point, California, subject to the retained life estate by its owner,
Julia Ann Goodman, and a satisfactory Phase I environmental assessment. Upon
Miss Goodman's death or when she relinquishes control, the property will be
sold and the proceeds, less any realtor's commission and selling costs, will be
used to establish the Betty Pease Dance Scholarship Fund.
Illinois Real Estate (Thomas M. and Doris Graber)
Executive Vice President Womack reported that Dr. and Mrs. Thomas
Graber had originally intended to establish a charitable remainder unitrust with
the University, with the intent of funding a portion of the unitrust with commercial property in Kenilworth, Illinois. They now believe they will probably donate
the property outright. Therefore, Regent Brown made the following motion: In
the event the Grabers wish to donate the property outright, the University will
accept and sell the medical office building located at 450 Green Bay Road, Kenilworth, Illinois, according to the terms described in the Regents Communication
in the additional agenda. The net income during the holding period and any sales
proceeds less marketing costs will benefit the School of Dentistry. In addition, he
moved to authorize the executive vice president and chief financial officer to
execute any miscellaneous documents required to complete the gift. Regent
Waters seconded the motion; following some discussion, it was approved
unanimously.
Regental Ordinance Revisions and Additions
Regent Power moved approval of revisions and additions to "An Ordinance
to Regulate Parking and Traffic and to Regulate the Use and Protection of the
Buildings and Property of the Regents of the University of Michigan," as
proposed in the Regents Communication. Regent Baker seconded the motion;
following some discussion, it was approved unanimously. The text of the revised
ordinance is in the Appendix, page 159.


151




December Meeting, 1994


Capital Outlay Request, 1996-97
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that state universities and community colleges had been directed to submit capital outlay requests
for fiscal year 1996-97 rather than 1995-96. Therefore, Regent McFee moved that
the 1995-96 Capital Outlay Request be resubmitted as the 1996-97 Capital
Outlay Request. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Alumni Center Renovation
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved renovation of the Alumni Center, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Angell/Haven Hall Connector
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following with respect to the Angell/Haven Hall
Connector: a revised budget, authorization to issue the project for bids, and
award of a construction contract, providing the project is within the budget.
University of Michigan School of Business Administration Facilities
Improvement Project
Regent McGowan moved approval of the School of Business Administration
Facilities Improvement Project and site and appointment of Luckenbach/
Ziegelman and Partners Inc. as architect, as outlined in the Regents Communication. Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Intercollegiate Athletics Yost Ice Arena Renovations
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved a renovation project for Yost Ice Arena, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Health Service, Michigan Union, Michigan League, and North Campus
Commons
Vice President Hartford described infrastructure and programmatic improvement projects that have been identified for the Health Service, Michigan
Union, Michigan League, and North Campus Commons, noting that these
projects would benefit students directly. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the projects, as described
in the Regents Communication.
Medical Science Building II Lecture Hall Remodeling
Regent Varner moved approval of a project involving the upgrade of three
200-seat lecture halls in the Medical Science Building II. Regent Power seconded
the motion. Noting that the project is to be financed by the issuance of tax
exempt debt secured by a pledge of Medical Service Plan revenues, Regent Baker
requested that the Regents receive a report on the source and use of Medical


152




December Meeting, 1994


Service Plan Funds. Regent Power agreed with the need for such a report, and
Executive Vice President Womack agreed to provide it. Following some discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Medical Science Building II Lecture Hall Remodeling Financing
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following resolution authorizing the
remodeling of three lecture halls in the Medical Science Building II as an
approved project in the Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds and Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds and increasing the size of the
bond issue from $221,000,000 to $222,200,000.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHGIAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, on September 24, 1993, the Regents of the Univerof Michigan (the "Issuer")
adopted its Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Hospital Revenue Bonds and
MVedical Service Plan  venue Bonds, and Providing for Other Matters Relatin Thereto, which
Resolution ws amended on December 17, 1993, February 18, 1994, and September 19, 1994 (as
amended, the "Resolution"); and
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable to further amend the Resolution as provided
herein:
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The second "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to include within the
definition and description of the "Projects", the acquisition, remodeling, and renovation of teaching and support space in Medical Science II and the acquisition and installation of furnishings
and equipment related thereto.
2. The eighth "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the
amount in the seventh line from "Two Hundred Twenty-One Million Dollars ($221,000,000)" to
"Two Hundred Twenty-Two Million Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($222,200,000)".
3. Section 1 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in the ninth line
of the first paragraph thereof from "$221,000,000" to "$222,200,000".
4. Section 2 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in the seventh
line of the first paragraph thereof from "$130,000,000" to $131,200,000" and the amount in the
ninth line of the first paragraph thereof from "$221,000,000" to $222,200,000".
5. As amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed. All resolutions or
parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are
hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
University of Michigan Medical Center East Medical Campus Primary
Care Facility Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university
planner. Mr. Mayer gave a presentation describing the proposed project and site
for the East Medical Campus Primary Care Facility Project. He displayed a
number of maps and diagrams illustrating several possible schemes for this
project, all of which had been evaluated by an interdisciplinaxy committee with


153




December Meeting, 1994


representatives from the Medical School, hospital, architect's office, planning
consultants, and University staff. The committee was unanimous in its selection
of the "linear axial" plan.
Phase I would involve building of the facility itself, creation of a roadway,
entrance drive, parking complex, and the supporting landscaping, signage, lighting, etc. Approval is being requested of the basic concept, as described, for the
organizational patterns on the site, and the site identified as Phase I of the development of the complex.
Regent Baker moved approval of the Primary Care Facility Project and the
proposed site, as presented. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Power
pointed out that major traffic problems would be created on Plymouth and
Earhardt Roads by the temporary access and egress roads as currently configured. Therefore, it was decided that the University would hire private traffic
consultants to analyze the traffic patterns created by the temporary roads. The
vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: 1) third floor ventilation system
replacement in the Taubman Health Center; 2) replacement of the vinyl flooring
in the Mott Hospital public corridors with terrazzo flooring; 3) renovations for
the University Hospitals Bone Marrow Transplant Program; 4) integration and
expansion of the Sleep Disorders Center; and 5) remodeling in the seventh floor
of the Medical Science II Building for the Department of Physiology.
University of Michigan Hospitals North Entrance Parking Structure
Project
The Regents were informed that a construction contract for the North
Entrance Parking Structure Project had been awarded to the Walbridge Aldinger
Company on November 17, 1994, immediately following receipt of Certificate of
Need amendment approval from the Michigan Department of Public Health.
Purchasing Agreement with Life Support Services, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing agreement with Life Support Services, Inc.
Because Mary Berry-Bovia is both a University employee and a partial owner
and stockholder of Life Support Services, Inc., this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and Life Support Services, Inc.
2.  The terms of the purchase are to buy immediately personalized protocols and
training for medical emergencies at UM satellite clinics and the purchase will
be completed at the conclusion of the development of the protocols and training
of clinical staff, in the amount of $10,311.


154




December Meeting, 1994


3.  Ms. Berry-Bovia's pecuniary interest arises from her position as a stockholder/
partial owner of Life Support Services, Inc.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
TSRL, which involves a subcontract with the University for a portion of the work
related to a grant that TSRL has received from the National Institutes of Health.
The following University employees are also associated with TSRL in the following capacities (although none will provide any effort toward the proposed
contract): Gordon Amidon, chair, director, and principal stockholder; Michael
Taylor, president and stockholder; John Crison, Jae Seung Kim, and Sally Choe,
employees; thus the proposed agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements: The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy.
None of the University employees who are also employees, officers, directors,
and/or shareholders in TSRL will play any role in the University's performance
of the agreement. The amount of the subcontract to the University is $15,423.
The period of performance is six months.
Reassignment of University's        Ownership    Interest in    Intellectual
Property
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the intellectual properties invented by
Paul L. Carson, Fred L. Terry, Andrew L. Robinson, and Dale W. Fitting, entitled "Technique for Fabricating Arrays of High-Sensitivity Piezoelectric Sensors
Having Low Element-to-Element Crosstalk" (TMO file #284); "Ultrasonic Image
Sensing Array and Method" (Patent No. 5,160,870); and "Ultrasonic Image
Sensing Array With Acoustical Backing" (Serial Noo 07/969,939).
Because two of the inventors are also University employees, the proposed
arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Paul L. Carson,
Fred L. Terry, Andrew L. Robinson, and Dale W. Fitting.
2.   Contract terms include payment to the University of 15 percent of total consideration received by Paul L. Carson, Fred L. Terry, Andrew L. Robinson, and
Dale W. Fitting. There will be no use of University facilities or services without
appropriate approvals.
3.  Messrs. Carson's, Terry's, Robinson's, and Fitting's pecuniary interests arise
from their right to receive royalties when this technology is licensed. This is in
lieu of participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University in
accordance with University policy.


155




December Meeting, 1994


Resolution in Honor of Regent Paul W. Brown
President Duderstadt observed that three individuals would be ending their
official association with the Board of Regents at the conclusion of this meeting,
and called first on Regent Baker, who read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their deep
appreciation and warmest personal regards to their colleague and
friend, Paul W. Brown, as he concludes 24 years of distinguished
service as a member of the Board of Regents.
Paul Brown's ties to both the state and the University are strong
and deep. He grew up in Detroit and earned both his bachelor's and
J.D. degrees from the University in 1956 and 1961, respectively. He
then settled in northern Michigan, where for over 30 years he has
balanced a successful legal career in Petoskey and his position as
chair of Arnold Transit Company in Mackinac Island with major
contributions in the area of public service.
During the 24 years of his service as Regent, Paul Brown
witnessed extraordinary changes in the University and had a major
role in directing its responses to challenges arising both within the
institution itself and in the society it serves. Merely to list them
suggests the demanding nature of the role he has so ably fulfilled.
They include issues associated with the Black Action Movement, the
debate over investments in South Africa, controversies over DNA and
classified research, the Replacement Hospital Project and
development of the Medical Center, economic recession, diminution
of state support for higher education, and the expansion and
rebuilding of the central campus. In addition, he has been an
informed and clear voice on matters of intercollegiate athletics and
an advocate for the concerns of citizens of northern Michigan.
He and his wife, the former Linda Margaret (Meg) Hyatt, met
while both were students at the University; they were married in
1961. Meg and their four children, Lynn, Katie, Marlee (UM, 1988),
and Bing (UM    class of 1996), have over the years shared in
important ways Paul's work for and devotion to the University of
Michigan.
The Regents thus salute Paul Brown for his devoted career as a
Regent and his exemplary dedication to the University's values. The
Regents trust that he will continue to serve his beloved university in
other ways as they name Paul W. Brown Regent Emeritus of the
University of Michigan.
There followed a round of applause. Regent Brown th ed thked  e Regents for
the resolution and introduced his wife, Meg Brown, who, he noted, had always
been supportive of his efforts on behalf of the University. He observed that it had


156




December Meeting, 1994


been a privilege to have served as a Regent for the past 24 years and to have been
associated with the executive officers and staff, and he looked forward to continuing to being helpful wherever he could.
Resolution in Honor of James L. Waters
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their warm
thanks and appreciation to their friend and valued colleague, James
L. Waters, as he concludes 24 years of dedicated service as a member
of the Board of Regents.
From the early years of his association with the University of
Michigan, Jim Waters has taken an active leadership role in matters
related to racial and cultural diversity. A native of Dowagiac, he
graduated from  Western Michigan University in 1967 and then
enrolled in the University of Michigan Law   School. There, he
assumed leadership roles as a member of the student board of
directors in 1968-69, chair of the Black Law School Student Alliance
in 1969-70, and a leader of the Black Action Movement (BAM). He
received his J.D. degree in 1970 and currently heads his own
thriving law practice in Muskegon: the James L. Waters Law Firm.
During his service as Regent, Jim Waters has helped shape the
University's responses to a great many educational and social issues.
These include efforts to expand minority enrollment; the debate over
investments in South Africa; major growth in the University
Hospitals and the Medical Center; ethical controversies surrounding
DNA, classified research, and guarantees of nondiscrimination; and
the continuing struggle to secure for the University a level of funding
commensurate with its mission. In all of his work on these matters,
Jim has been a particularly influential spokesperson on matters of
social justice and diversity.
Jim has been married to his high school sweetheart, the former
Nancy Finley, since 1959, and she has been a strong supporter of his
efforts on behalf of the University. Their son, Mark, led no doubt by
his parents' wise counsel, also attended the University of Michigan,
graduating in 1983.
The Regents wish him   Godspeed as he continues his work
toward the achievement of equity and social justice for all of the
state's citizens. In recognition of his steadfast devotion to the
University over the past 24 years, the Regents now name James L.
Waters Regent Emeritus of the University of Michigan.
There followed a round of applause, after which Regent Waters noted that it
had been a pleasure and an honor to have served on the Board of Regents. He
thanked the Michigan Democratic Party for having given him the opportunity to


157




December Meeting, 1994


serve and noted that he and Regent Brown had campaigned together four times
and that he would miss serving with him on the Board. He stated that he would
always have an interest in the University of Michigan, especially in the area of
student issues, minorities, women, and labor relations, and would continue his
relationship with the University.
Comments by Regent Baker
Regent Baker observed that he had worked with both Regents Brown and
Waters for 22 years and that they were "good and honorable men". He recalled
their having watched each other's children grow up and noted that Regent
Brown's wise and quiet judgment had been helpful to the University many times.
He related a personal anecdote about comments he had made during the time of
BAM II regarding the poor preparation for college provided by inner-city high
schools, when Regent Waters and former Vice President Henry Johnson had
been the only two people at the University who had made it a point to tell him
they agreed with him.
Resolution in Honor of Harold R. Johnson
Referring to Secretary Johnson, President Duderstadt recalled all of the
roles he had served at the University over the years, and noted that he would
now be beginning his retirement furlough. He called on Regent McGowan, who
read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute Harold R.
Johnson as he steps down from his role as interim secretary of the
university. In this position, he has served the University with the
same dedication and skill that he has brought to other posts he has
held throughout his long and distinguished career. Professor of
social work and of health education and health behavior, director of
the Institute of Gerontology, dean of the School of Social Work,
special counsel to the president-wherever he has served, Harold has
brought to his work an acute intelligence and a gift for solving
organizational problems. In postponing his retirement furlough to
accept the secretary's job, he placed the University's needs and
welfare above his own, displaying the commitment to community
service that has marked his career from the beginning.
The   communities  that  have   benefited  from  Harold's
considerable skills have been many and varied, including organized
labor in Canada and the United States, community service
organizations in Detroit, the world-wide community of the aging
served by the Institute of Gerontology, and finally the scholarly
community of the School of Social Work and all of the individuals
and agencies who gained from that faculty's research and their
development of methods for the delivery of social services.


158




December Meeting, 1994


When he came to the Fleming Building in 1993 after his long
and meritorious service as dean of the School of Social Work, Harold
surely did not imagine that he would be pressed into service as
secretary of the university. Not only did he accept the call, but he has
served the Regents admirably, sharing the wisdom gathered from his
long service in the University and the sagacity developed over his
lifetime of involvement in the political world.
Now the Regents, speaking both in their own right and on
behalf of the University of Michigan community, thank Harold R.
Johnson for his thoughtful and devoted service throughout his
career, and especially as interim secretary of the university. As he
finally begins his retirement furlough, the Regents express their hope
and belief that the coming years will bring him not merely
well-deserved leisure, but continuing opportunities to exercise the
considerable gift for service to others that has been his trademark.
Following a round of applause, Secretary Johnson thanked the Regents for
their kind words.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Carmen Crosby, student and president of the board of directors of the
Ann Arbor Tenants Union (AATU), Amelia Tuminaro, student and member of
the board of directors of the AATU, Jonathan Freeman, member of MSA and
Jim Schaafsma, secretary of the AATU board of directors, all in favor of a
proposed MSA student fee increase for the Ann Arbor Tenants Union; and Craig
Greenberg and Jessie Halliday, students, regarding student representation on
the Board of Regents.
Presentation: University Outreach (Educational/Service) Programs
Vice President Harrison observed that the University is a leader in providing community service to the citizens of the state, and to hhlilght some of the
programs, introduced Jeffrey Lehman, dean of the Law School. Dean Lehman
described the Program in Legal Assistance for Urban Communities as an outstanding example of how theory and practice can work together. This clinical
program is designed to involve law students in the provision of technical assistance to community based organizations in Detroit. He introduced Rochelle
Lento, clinical assistant professor of law and executive director of the program.
Professor Lento described the work of the program, after which Kim Easter,
Franz Herbert, Michelle Askew, and Michael Tennbush, students involved in the
program, described their experiences.
Next, Paula Allen-Meares, dean of the School of Social Work, described the
importance of community service programs, and introduced Charlene Johnson,
executive director of the Michigan Neighborhood Partnership Program, and
Susan Ronko, a student intern in the program. Ms. Johnson and Ms. Ronko
described the program and how it benefits all who are involved with it. Ms. Johnson also showed a videotape giving highlights of the program's accomplishments.


159




December Meeting, 1994


Vice President Hartford introduced the fmal presentation, given by two
students involved in the Alternative Spring Break Program, Tom Schaubelt and
Payal Pareka.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:35 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on February 16 and 17, 1995E Regents' expenses
for the month of November 1994 totaled $995.19.


Interim Secretary of the University


160




DECEMBER MEETING, 1994


APPENDIX
AN ORDINANCE TO REGULATE PARKING AND TRAFFIC
AND TO REGULATE THE USE AND PROTECTION OF THE BUILDINGS
AND PROPERTY OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WHEREAS, Article VIII Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 provides that the
Regents of the University of Michigan and their successors in office shall constitute a body
corporate and vests therein the general supervision of said University; and
WHEREAS, Section 5 of Public Act 151 of 1851, as amended (Michigan Complied Laws
Annotated, Section 390.5), provides that the said Regents shall have power to enact ordinances,
bylaws, and regulations for the government of said University; and
WHEREAS, Section 3 of Public Act 151 of 1851, as amended (Michigan Compiled Laws
Annotated, Section 390.3), provides that the government of the University is vested in said
Regents; and
WHEREAS, Section 1 of Public Act 80 of 1905, as amended (Michigan Compiled Laws
Annotated, Section 19.141), provides that the said Regents shall have authority to make and
prescribe rules and regulations for the care, preservation, and protection of buildings and
property dedicated and appropriated to the public use, over which the said Regents have
jurisdiction or power of control and the conduct of those coming upon the property thereof,
which may be necessary for the maintenance of good order and the protection of said state
property and further provides that the said Regents shall have authority to enforce such rules
and regulations; and
WHEREAS, Section 1 of Public Act 291 of 1967 (Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated,
Section 390.891), authorizes said Regents to enact parking, traffic, and pedestrian ordinances for
the government and control of its campuses and to provide fines for violations of such ordinances; and Section 3 of that Act permits said Regents to establish a Parking Violations Bureau
as an exclusive agency to accept admissions of responsibility in cases of civil infraction violations
of any parking ordinance and to collect and retain fines and costs as prescribed in the ordinance
for such violations; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the above-designated authority, and in discharge of the responsibility imposed thereby, the Regents of the University of Michigan deem it necessary to adopt an
ordinance and rules and regulations for the care, preservation, protection, and government of
University property, for the conduct of persons coming upon said property; for the regulation of
the driving and parking of motor vehicles, vehicles and bicycles upon said property; for the removal and impoundment of motor vehicles, vehicles and bicycles abandoned thereon; for the
maintenance of good order; and for the promotion of public health, safety, and general welfare in
and upon said property;
NOW, THEREFORE THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE
Section 1.o  Georaphic Scope of Ordinance. This Ordinance shall apply solely to
the Ann Arbor campus of the University of Michigan which, for the purposes of this Ordinance,
is deemed to include all Ann Arbor campus property owned or leased by the Regents of the University of Michigan.


161




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


ARTICLE II
TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section 1.  Definitions. Words and phrases used in this Article shall have their usual
and customary meaning, provided, however, that all words defined in the Michigan Uniform
Traffic Code (1981 AACS, R.28.1101 et seq.) as amended, and used in this Article, shall have the
meaning specified therein; provided, further, that the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
(1) Alley. Any minor thoroughfare, opened to public use, for purposes of
ingress and egress to service adjacent buildings.
(2) Bicycle. Every device having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which
is over twenty (20) inches in diameter, propelled by human power upon which
any person may ride.
(3) Bus. Every public motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
seven (7) passengers and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor
vehicle, other than a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons
for compensation.
(4)  Bus stand. A fixed area in the roadway parallel and adjacent to the
curb to be occupied exclusively by buses for layover in operating schedules or
waiting for passengers.
(5) Center or centerline. A continuous or broken line marked upon
the surface of a roadway by paint or otherwise to indicate each portion of the
roadway allocated to traffic proceeding in the two (2) opposite directions, and if
the line is not so painted or otherwise marked, it is an imaginary line in the
roadway equally distant from the edges or curbs of the roadway.
(6) Crosswalk. That portion of street ordinarily included within the
prolonging or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
(7) Curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles licensed as commercial vehicles during the loading or unloading of
freight.
(8) Holidays. Where used in this Ordinance or on official signs erected
pursuant to this Ordinance shall in addition to Sundays mean the following legal
holidays, to wit: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and any other holiday excluding Saturdays,
when the University is officially closed.
(9) Intersection. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two (2) or more roadways
which join one another at an angle whether or not such roadway crosses the
other.
(10) Motor vehicles. Every vehicle which is self propelled.
(11) Parking meter zone. An area adjacent to a parking meter set aside
for the exclusive use of vehicles upon the deposit of a coin of United States currency in said parking meter as specified thereon.
(12) Right-of-way. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
(13) Stop. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
(14) Stop, stopping or standing. When prohibited, means any stopping
or standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not, other than the temporary stopping of a passenger vehicle for the purpose of and while actually engaged in picking up and discharging passengers, except when necessary to avoid conflict with


162




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
(15) Taxicab. A motor vehicle licensed under the City of Ann Arbor Ordinance Code.
(16) Taxicab stand. A fixed area in the roadway parallel and adjacent to
the curb set aside for taxicabs to stand or wait for passengers.
(17) Time.
(a)    Official time standard.  Whenever certain hours are named
herein, they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in
current use at the University.
(b)    Day time. Time between thirty (30) minutes before sunrise and
thirty (30) minutes after sunset.
(c)    Night time. Time between thirty (30) minutes after sunset and
thirty (30) minutes before sunrise.
Section 2.   Parking Areas.
(1)  Designation of Parking Areas. The Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee shall
designate the available parking lots and parking structures on property of The
Regents of The University of Michigan as "Restricted Parking Areas" and "Open
Parking Areas" and shall identify the same by appropriate signs at the respective
entrances thereto.
(2)  Restricted Parking Areas. Restricted Parking Areas shall be limited to permit holders and shall have the following classifications:
(a)    Staff Paid Lots and Structures
(b)    Staff Metered Lots and Structures
(c)    Tenant Parking Lots and Structures
(d)    Student Paid Lots and Structures
(e)    Staff-Student Lots and Structures
(3)  Open Parking Areas. Open Parking Areas shall be open to the
public and shall have two classifications:
(a)    Unrestricted Metered, Lots and Structures
(b)   Unrestricted Free Lots and Structures
(4)  Limied-Purpose Parking Areas. Limited-Purpose       Parking Areas
shall be used solely as follows:
(a)   for the parking of University-owned vehicles
(b)   for the parking of such other vehicles as shall display a Loading
and Unloading permit and which shall remain in said Areas no longer than
one-half (1/2) hour or as otherwise designated by the permit.
Section 3.   University Parking Permits.
(1)  Rules and Regulations. University parking permits shall be issued
to all faculty and full-time staff members pursuant to rules and regulations


163




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


prescribed by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer upon payment of the fees prescribed therefor by said rules and regulations.
(2) Permit Required.
(a)    No person shall park a motor vehicle in a Staff Paid Lot or Structure or Tenant Parking Lot or Structure unless such vehicle shall have affixed
thereto (in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations) the type of
parking permit required for said Lot or Structure, which has been validly issued
to such person for such vehicle by the Office of Parking Services.
(b)    No person shall park a motor vehicle in a Student Paid Lot unless
such vehicle shall have affixed thereto (in accordance with the prescribed rules
and regulations) a Student Paid Permit, which has been validly issued to such
person for such vehicle by the Office of Parking Services.
(c)    No person shall park a motor vehicle in a Staff Metered Lot or
Structure unless such vehicle shall have affixed thereto (in accordance with the
prescribed rules and regulations) a University Staff Parking Permit, a University Staff Metered Permit, or a Guest Parking Permit, which has been validly
issued to such person for such vehicle by the Office of Parking Services.
Section 4.    Rates. The rates for parking in lots and structures operated by The University of Michigan shall be established by rules and regulations prescribed by the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, except that the base rate for Staff Paid Lots and Structures shall be prescribed by the Regents.
Section 5.   General Prohibitions.
(1) Prohibited Parking. No person shall park a motor vehicle on The
University of Michigan campus except in a duly-designated parking area or except while engaged in a service, delivery, or similar function permitted by the
prescribed rules and regulations. Such person must at all times obey University
of Michigan signs regulating and prohibiting parking in fire lanes and elsewhere.
(2)  Prohibited Driving. No person shall operate a motor vehicle over
or upon The University of Michigan campus except in an area designated as a
street, public drive, or parking area; or except while engaged in a service, delivery, or similar function permitted by the prescribed rules and regulations.
Section 6.   Obstructing Drives. No person shall park a motor vehicle on The University of Michigan campus in such manner as to obstruct, block, or project into any entrance, exit,
driveway, or aisleway of any parking lot or structure.
Section 7.   Parking Spaces. No person shall park any motor vehicle in any parking
lot or parking structure other than within the boundaries of the space designated as allocated for
the parking of a single motor vehicle, by appropriate lines or other markings. Where a space has
been designated for the parking of compact automobiles or other small vehicles only, and appropriate signs erected it shall be unlawfil to park a larger or other type of vehicle thereon so as to
extend beyond the designated boundaries of such space.
Section 8.   Payment of Charges for Nonmetered Parking. Every person who
parks a motor vehicle in a nonmetered parking lot or parking structure operated by The University of Michigan for which a parking charge is made, shall prepay upon entry or shall pay such
charge prior to removing said vehicle from said lot or structure.
Section 9.   Payment of Charges for Metered Parking. In a University of Michigan
parking lot or parking structure where parking charges are collected by means of meters installed adjacent to the parking spaces in said lot or structure, no person shall:
(1) park a motor vehicle in any metered space without placing a United
States coin of proper denomination in the meter in accordance with the regulations posted on said meter during the hours the said regulations require the payment of parking charges; or


164




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(2)  permit a motor vehicle in his/her custody, or owned by him/her, to remain in any metered zone except while lawful parking time appears on the meter
regulating the space occupied by such motor vehicle; or
(3) deface, injure, or tamper with any parking meter installed in any such
parking lot or structure, or open such parking meter.
Section 10.   Prina Facie Evidence - Parling Violations. In any proceeding for violation of the parng provisions of this Ordinance, the registration plate displayed on a motor vehicle shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the owner of such motor vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point where such violation
occurred.
Section 1. Following, Overtaking and Passing.
(1)  Drive to Right. Upon all streets of sufficient width a vehicle shall be
driven upon the right half of the roadway, and on streets with four or more
lanes, within the extreme right hand lane, except as follows:
(a)    When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction under the rules governing such movement;
(b)    When the right half of a street is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
(c)    Upon a street divided into three lanes for traffic under the rules
applicable thereon; or
(d)    Upon a street designated and sign posted for one-way traffic.
(2)  Following Too Closely. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicle, and the traffic upon and the condition of the
street.
(3)  Passing Vehicles Proceeding in Opposite Directions. Drivers of
vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right and
upon streets having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction
each driver shall give to the other at least one-half of the main-traveled portion
of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(4)  Passing on Left. The following rules shall govern the overtaking
and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated:
(a)    The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction shall pass at a safe distance to the left thereof, and when
safely clear of such overtaken vehicle shall take up a position as near the righthand edge of the main traveled portion of the street as is practicable.
(b)    Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted,
the driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(5) Passing on Right. The driver of a vehicle may over-take and pass
upon the right of another vehicle only under conditions permitting such movement to be made safely and in no event by driving off the pavement or main
traveled portion of the road-way and further only when one or more of the following conditions exists.
(a)    When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn,


165




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(b)    Upon a street with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction and when such vehicles are moving in substantially continuous
lanes of traffic;
(c)    Upon a one-way street, or upon any street on which traffic is restricted to one direction of movement, where the street is free from obstructions
and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles and when such
vehicles are moving in substantially continuous lanes of traffic.
(6)  Limitations on Passing. No vehicle shall be driven to the left side
of the center of a two-lane street or in the center lane of a three-lane street in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side or center lane is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely
made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction or any vehicle being overtaken.
(7)  No-Passing Zone. No driver of any vehicle shall overtake or pass
any vehicle in a designated no passing zone. There shall be no overtaking or
passing on the left at street intersections.
(8)  Three-Lane Streets. Upon a street which is divided into three lanes
a vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the center lane except when making a
left turn and shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and
passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane
is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where
such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation
(9) One-Way Streets. Vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys where signs
have been erected indicating that traffic shall move in only one direction.
(10) Passing School Bus Stopped to Receive or Discharge Passengers; Stopping on Streets; Meeting Bus on Divided Highway; Bus Signal
Lamps and Markings.
(a)    The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass, or meet and
pass, any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers and which is displaying 2 alternately flashing red lights as
provided herein. All school buses shall be equipped with such signs and/or
lights on the back and front thereof, with respect thereto, as shall be approved
by the State Highway Commissioner.
(b)    The driver of a vehicle overtaking or meeting any school bus
which has stopped and is displaying two alternately flashing red lights located
at the same level, shall bring such overtaking or meeting vehicle to a full stop
at least 10 feet from the school bus and shall not proceed until the visual signals are no longer actuated. The driver of the school bus, before resuming motion, shall signal stopped traffic to proceed and shall, when resuming motion,
proceed in such a manner as to allow congested traffic to disperse by keeping
the bus as near to the right side of the road as can be done with safety. Passengers crossing the road upon being discharged from a school bus shall cross in
front of the stopped school bus. At an intersection where traffic is controlled by
an officer or a traffic stop-and-go signal, the school bus driver shall not display
the two alternately flashing red lights, and a vehicle need not be brought to a
full stop before passing any such school bus, but may proceed past such school
bus at a speed not greater than is reasonable and proper and in no event greater
than 10 miles per hour, with due caution for the safety of passengers being received or discharged from such school bus.


166




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(c)    All locations at which school buses propose to stop for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers on a University street shall be approved in writing by the Director of Public Safety or the Director's written
designee, prior to the inclusion of such stop in the route of any school bus.
(d)    No school bus driver shall stop the bus for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers, knowing such location not to have been approved by the Director of Public Safety or the Director's written designee, as
provided in subsection (c) unless such stop shall be as the result of an emergency and necessary for the safety of persons or property.
(e)    A school bus driver shall not stop the bus for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers, unless the bus is completely visible in its
stopped position to approaching or overtaking drivers of vehicles for a distance
of at least 400 feet.
(f)    The driver of a vehicle upon any street which has been divided
into two roadways by leaving an intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or
clearly indicated dividing sections so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic,
need not stop upon meeting a school bus which has stopped across the dividing
space, barrier or section.
(g)    Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
any distinctive marking required by law, be equipped with signal lamps
mounted as high and widely spaced laterally as practicable, which shall be capable of displaying to the front two alternately flashing red lights located at the
same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red lights located at the same
level. Said light shall have sufficient intensity to be visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet in normal sunlight and may be actuated by the driver of said
school bus whenever, but only whenever, such vehicle is stopped or is about to
stop for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, but need not be
actuated at an intersection where traffic is controlled by an officer or by a traffic
stop-and-go signal.
(h)    In any proceeding for a violation of subsection (b) of this section,
proof that the particular vehicle described in the citation, complaint or warrant
was in violation of subsection (b), together with proof that the defendant named
in the citation, complaint or warrant was, at the time of the violation, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a presumption that the
registered owner of the vehicle was the driver of the vehicle at the time of the
violation.
Section 12.      Turning Movements.
(1) Duties on turning. The driver of any vehicle upon a street before
starting, stopping or turning from a direct line shall first see that such movement can be made in safety, shall give a signal as required in this section, and
shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles coming in the opposite direction or approaching from the rear.
(2)  Operator to signal change in course or speed.
(a)    Before turning to the right or the left to leave a street and before
turning around or stopping thereon or before materially varying the course in
which the vehicle is proceeding, the operator shall first ascertain that such
movement can be made in safety, and shall give a warning signal to other operators either by a mechanical or electrical device which conveys an intelligible
signal or by extending the arm beyond and outside the vehicle for a sufficient
time to apprise approaching operators of the operator's intention to change
course or stop, as the case may be.
(b)    In all cases the driver of the vehicle to whom a warning signal
has been given, shall bring and keep the vehicle under such control as to be


167




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


able to avoid an accident resulting from any misunderstanding of such signals,
and shall in all cases heed any such warnings as shall have been given.
(3) Position for turning. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at
an intersection, alley or driveway shall:
(a)    In making an approach for a right turn and a right turn, keep the
vehicle as close as possible to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(b)    In making an approach for a left turn, keep the vehicle in that
portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and, after
entering an intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
(c)    In making an approach for a left turn from a two-way street into
a one-way street, keep the vehicle in that portion of the right-of-way of the
roadway nearest the centerline thereof, passing to the right of such centerline
where it enters the intersection, and entering the one-way street as close as is
practical to the left-hand traffic lane thereof. A left turn from a one-way street
into a two-way street shall be made from the left-hand traffic lane of the one
way street and passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered
upon leaving the intersection.
(d)    Where both streets or roadways are one-way, in making both the
approach for a left turn and a left turn, keep the vehicle as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(e)    Where a center lane is clearly designated for left turn only, in
making an approach for a left turn, position the vehicle so that it is entirely
within the left turn lane before entering the intersection.
Section 13.      Traffic Signals And Stops.
(1)  Traffic-control signals (legend). Whenever traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals, exhibiting the words "go", "caution", or "stop", or exhibiting
different colored lights successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following
colors shall be used and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers
of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
(a)    Green. Green alone or "go".
(1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that
place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, ineluding vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the rightof-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within
the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such
signal is exhibited.
(2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed
across the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
(b)    Yellow. Yellow alone or "caution" when  shown following the
green or "go" signal.
(1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at the intersection or at
a limit line, when marked, but if the stop cannot be made
in safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the
intersection.
(2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are hereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway,


168




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


and any pedestrian then starting to cross shall yield the
right of way to all vehicles.
(c)   Red. Red alone or "Stop".
(1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal
alone shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or at a limit line, when marked, or,
if none, then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until a green indication is shown, except as
provided in subsection (2).
(2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal, after stopping before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection, shall be privileged to make a right turn from a one-way or two-way
street into a two-way street or into a one-way street carrying traffic in the direction of the right turn, or a left turn
from a one-way or two-way street into a one-way street
carrying traffic in the direction of the left turn, unless prohibited by sign, signal, marking, light, or other traffic control device. The vehicular traffic shall yield the right of
way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk
and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
(3)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the
street unless it can be done safely and without interfering
with any vehicular traffic.
(d)    Steady Green Arrow Indications.
(1)   Green arrow (steady): Vehicular traffic facing
such signal may cautiously enter the intersection only to
make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall
yield the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
(e)    Interference with Official Traffic Control Devices or Railroad
Signs or Signals. No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device
or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any limit line, or any other part thereof.
(2)  Non-Intersection Signals, In the event a traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence
of any sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(3)  Flashing Red or Yellow Signals. Whenever flashing red or yellow
signals are used they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
(a)   Flashing red (stop signals). When a red lens is illuminated by
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.


169




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(b) Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(4)  Railroad Gates. No person shall drive any vehicle through, around,
or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate
or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(5)  Stop Signs and Yield Right of Way Signs. When stop signs are
erected at or near the entrance to any intersection every driver of a vehicle shall
stop such vehicle at such sign or at a clearly marked stop line except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal and shall proceed
into the intersection only when such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic. Where signs bearing the message "Yield Right
of Way" are erected upon the approach to an intersection a driver approaching
such intersection shall slow to a reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding the right of way to all traffic on the intersecting street
which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(6)  Unauthorized Display of Signs. No person shall place, maintain
or display upon or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking
or device which purports to be, or is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement
of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or marking is hereby declared to be a nuisance and the Director of Public
Safety or the Director's written designee is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to streets of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that can not be mistaken for traffic signs or
signals.
(7) Emerging from Alley or Private Way. The driver of a vehicle
about to enter or cross a street from an alley, private road or driveway shall
come to a full stop and yield right of way to all vehicles or pedestrians approaching on said street so close to such point of entry as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
(8)     Obstructing Intersection. Notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication or other right to proceed no driver shall enter an intersection or
a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the driver's vehicle without obstructing or
blocking the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians.
(9)     Passing Vehicle at Intersection.    Whenever any vehicle is
stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection
to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(10)   Right of Way. When two vehicles enter an intersection at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the
right of way to the vehicle on the right, provided, however, where signs bearing
the message "Yield Right of Way" are erected upon the approach to an intersection, a driver approaching such sign shall slow to a reasonable speed for existing
conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding the right of way to all traffic on the
intersecting street which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. The
driver of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall forfeit any right of way
which the driver might otherwise have hereunder.
(11)   Right of Way - Left Turn. The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so
close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver having so


170




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


yielded and having given a signal when and as required by this Article may make
such left turn and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
from said opposite direction shall yield the right of way to the vehicle making the
left turn; provided, that at an intersection at which a traffic signal is located, a
driver intending to make a left turn shall permit vehicles bound straight through
in the opposite direction which are waiting a go signal to pass through the intersection before making the turn.
(12)    Right of Way - Funeral Procession. All motor vehicles forming
a funeral procession when going to any place of burial, and other authorized processions, shall have the right of way over all other vehicles except fire apparatus,
ambulances and police patrol vehicles, at any street intersection. Provided that
each vehicle in a funeral procession shall have displayed on the front thereof a
flag which shall be white in color, and upon shall be printed, stamped, or stained
a purple cross or the Star of David.
(13)    Driving Through Funeral Procession. No operator of a vehicle shall drive through the vehicles comprising a funeral procession while such
funeral procession is in motion except when otherwise directed by a police officer. This provision shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(14)    Protection of Blind Pedestrians. It shall be unlawful for any
person, except persons wholly or partially blind, to carry or use upon University
sidewalks, streets, or in parking lots or structures or other public places any
canes or walking sticks which are white in color or white with red end or bottom:
provided, that such canes or walking sticks may be used by persons wholly or
partially blind as a means of protecting them and for the purpose of identifying
them to drivers of vehicles and operators of motor driven vehicles and other pedestrians with whom they come in contact.
(a)    Any driver of a vehicle, operator of a motor driven vehicle or pedestrian who approaches or comes in contact with a person who is wholly or
partially blind carrying a cane or walking stick white in color or white with red
end or bottom shall immediately come to a full stop and take such precautions
before proceeding as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to the person
so carrying a white cane or walking stick.
(b)    No person, other than a person wholly or partially blind, shall
carry such a cane or walking stick as described in above contrary to the provision of this subsection 13(14) or fail to heed the approach of any person so carrying such a white cane or waking stick or one white in color with red end or
bottom or fail to come to a stop upon approaching or coming in contact with a
person so carrying such a cane or walking stick or fail to take precaution
against accident or injury to such person after coming to a full stop as provided
herein.
(15)    Compliance with Traffic Control Devices. No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any traffic control device placed in accordance with provisions of this Ordinance unless at a time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
Section 14.      Speed Regulations.
(1) General Speed Limit. Any person driving a vehicle on a street
shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less
than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width
of the street and of any other condition then existing, and no person shall drive
any vehicle upon a street at a speed greater than will permit the driver to bring
the vehicle to a stop within the assured, clear distance ahead.
(2) Prima Facie Limit. Subject to the provisions of Section 14(1), and
except in those instances where a different speed is established by Traffic Control
Order and posted, it shall be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive


171




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


the same at a speed not exceeding the following, but in any case when such speed
would be unsafe it shall not be lawful: twenty-five miles an hour on all University streets.
(3)    Exceeding Prima Facie Limit. It shall be prima facie unlawful
to exceed the speed stated on signs erected in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance.
(4)    Specify Speed Violation. In every charge of a violation of speed
limitations imposed hereunder, except for charges of violations of section 14(1),
the complaint and traffic citation shall specify the speed at which the defendant
is alleged to have driven, also the speed applicable to the district or the location.
(5)    Speed in Alleys and at Corners. No person shall drive through
any alley or turn any corner at a rate of speed exceeding 10 miles per hour.
Section 15.     Parking, Standing and Starting.
(1)    Stationary vehicles; open doors; loading and unloading. No
person shall open a door of a stationary vehicle, or remove anything from or
place anything into a stationary vehicle, in such a manner as to interfere with or
impede the flow of vehicles, bicycles or pedestrians.
(2)    Curb parking. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance,
every vehicle stopped or parked upon a street shall be so stopped or parked with
the wheels of such vehicle parallel to the roadway and within 12 inches of any exiting right-hand curb, or edge of roadway where there is no right-hand curb.
(3)    One-way street parking. Vehicles may park with the left-hand
wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of properly signed
one-way streets.
(4)    Angle parking. Upon those streets which have been signed or
marked for angle parking, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other
than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings.
(5)    Unattended motor vehicle. No person having control or charge
of a motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle to stand on any street unattended
without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and stopping the motor of said
vehicle and when standing upon any grade without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street. No person driving or in charge of a
motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended in any public place on University property with the ignition key within the ignition lock of said motor vehicle
or with such key elsewhere within such vehicle within view of persons passing
along the street; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to
trucks which are being loaded or unloaded.
(6)    Parking Not to Obstruct Traffic. No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available insufficient width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(7)    Starting from   parked position.   A vehicle starting from a
parked position shall give moving vehicles the right of way and the operator of
such vehicle shall give a timely and visible warning signal before so starting.
(8)    Parking prohibitions (no signs required). No person shall
stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device in any of the following places:
(a)   On a sidewalk, or, on that portion of the street located between
the property lines and the curb or curb line;


172




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(b)    Within an intersection;
(c)    Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; except when the operator remains in the vehicle;
(d)    On a crosswalk;
(e)    Within 20 feet of a crosswalk, or if none, then within 15 feet of
the intersection of property lines at an intersection of streets;
(f)    Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic-control sign located at the side of a street;
(g)    Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
(h)    Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of said
entrance when properly signposted;
(i)    Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
(j)    On the highway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
(k)    Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
(1)    Within 200 feet of an accident at which police officers are in
attendance;
(m)    In front of any theater;
(n)    In any place or in any manner so as to block immediate egress
from any emergency exit or exits, conspicuously marked as such, of building;
(o)    In any place or in any manner so as to block or hamper immediate use of and immediate egress from any fire escape, providing an emergency
means of egress from any building.
(9)     Discharging and loading passengers. Passenger vehicles, taxicabs and buses, for the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers, may be
stopped at the places designated in subparagraph (b), (d), and (f) of section 15(8),
and buses may stop for such purpose on the highway side of a vehicle illegally
parked in a designated bus stop.
(10)    Causing vehicle to be illegally parked. No person shall move
a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any prohibited area or away from a
curb such a distance as is unlawful.
(11)    Parking prohibitions and restrictions (signs required).
(a)    No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with traffic or in compliance with law or the direction
of a police officer, in violation of any legally established parking restriction or
prohibition, provided that signs stating such restrictions or prohibitions are
duly posted in accordance with this Ordinance, except that a driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily in such restricted or prohibited parking zone
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading of passengers when such stopping does not interfere with traffic.
(b)    Where signs are erected in any block, or upon any University
property, establishing a time limit zone, no person shall park a vehicle within
said zone for longer than the time limit established between the hours of 8:00


173




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and holidays. Each additional
period of parking over the time limit shall be a separate offense.
(12)   Prohibitions for certain purposes. No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the principal purpose of:
(a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
(b)   Washing, polishing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency;
(c)   Displaying advertising;
(d)   Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly established market place, or when so authorized or licensed under Article IX of this
Ordinance.
(13)   Parking in alley. No person shall park a vehicle in an alley, except when authorized by a current traffic control order, nor shall any person stop
or stand a vehicle in an alley except while actually in the process of loading or
unloading such vehicle.
(14)    Curb loading zone. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle other than a commercially licensed vehicle in any place marked as a curb
loading zone during hours when the provision applicable to such zones are in effect except as permitted in section 15(11). No person shall stop, stand or park
any commercially licensed vehicle in any place marked as a curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect for any
purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery
or pick up and loading of materials, goods or merchandise. Provided, however,
that an individual confined to a wheelchair, or who has a severe ambulatory disability that requires the permanent use of crutches, walkers, braces, and similar
devices, or who has a severe ambulatory disability resulting from impairment of
balance, may obtain a sticker to be affixed to the rear window of a vehicle owned
by said individual or a member of his or her immediate family, or an individual
who customarily transports said disabled individual, and a vehicle displaying
such sticker may be parked in a curb loading zone for a period not to exceed 30
minutes while said individual uses an adjacent establishment. Said sticker may
be obtained from the Office of Parking Services upon filing of a written statement by said individual or a member of his or her immediate family certifying
that the individual is confined to a wheelchair or has a severe ambulatory
disability as above described and describing the vehicle to which the sticker will
be affixed. Individuals who are temporarily confined to a wheelchair or who require the use of walkers, braces, and similar devices due to accidents or illness of
a transitory nature may purchase a sticker valid for 6 months upon presentation
of written certification from a physician. Any vehicle displaying a valid special
parking permit issued pursuant to Section 675(e) of the Michigan Vehicle Code
to an individual confined to a wheelchair or who has a severe ambulatory disability as above described may be parked in a curb loading zone for a period not to
exceed 30 minutes while said individual uses an adjacent establishment, without
the necessity of obtaining a sticker from the University.
(15)   Buses, taxicabs, stopping and standing. The operator of a bus
or taxicab shall not stop, stand, or park upon any street at any place other than
at a bus stop, or taxicab stand, respectively, except that this provision shall not
prevent the operator of any such vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping, standing, or parking regulations at any place for the
purpose of and while engaged in the expeditious unloading of passengers.
(16)    Restricted use of bus and taxicab standso No person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when such stop or stand has been officially designated and
appropriately signed, except as permitted in section 15(11).


174




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 16.      Miscellaneous Rules.
(1)  Driver's license; insurance; registration; false plates.
(a)    No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a University street
unless such person is licensed as an operator or chauffeur as required by Michigan Vehicle Code, Act 300, Public Acts of 1949, as amended, nor fail to have
the same in his or her immediate possession when driving a motor vehicle.
Such license shall be submitted for examination upon demand by any police
officer.
(b)    No person may operate a motor vehicle on University property
unless the person maintains all the security for payment of benefits under personal protection insurance, property protection insurance and residual liability
insurance as is required under Chapter 31 of Act 218, P.A. of 1956 as
amended, "Motor Vehicle and Personal Property Protection," being MCL
500.3101 etseq.
(c)    No person may drive or any owner knowingly permit any person
to drive upon any University street any vehicle of a type required to be registered under the Michigan Vehicle Code, Act 300, Public Acts of 1949, as
amended, which is not registered or for which a certificate of title has not been
applied for or for which the appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required by the Michigan Vehicle Code, cited above, except as provided under
Section 217 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, as amended.
(d)    No person shall operate a vehicle on any University street displaying a registration plate other than the registration plate issued for the vehicle by the Michigan Secretary of State, except as provided under the Michigan
Vehicle Code for nonresidents or by assignment provided under Section 224(3)
of the Michigan Vehicle Code.
(2)  Certificate of registration and proof of insuranceo
(a)    The certificate of registration shall at all times be carried in the
vehicles to which it refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control
of such vehicle. The certificate shall be submitted for examination upon demand by any police officer.
(b)    The owner or operator of a motor vehicle who operates or permits
its operation upon a roadway shall produce, upon the request of any police officer, evidence that the vehicle is an insured motor vehicle, or that the uninsured
motor vehicle fee has been paid. A certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company stating that there is in force a liability policy meeting the requirements of the motor vehicle responsibility law of this state, shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of insurance being in force until the expiration
date shown on the certificate.
(3)  False or canceled license. No person shall:
(a)    Operate any motor vehicle when his or her operator's or chauffeur's license is canceled, revoked, suspended, altered or denied;
(b)    Display, permit to be displayed, or have in his or her possession
any operator's or chauffeur's license knowing the same to be fictitious, or to
have been canceled, denied, revoked, suspended, or altered;
(c)    Loan to anothe  er person, or knowingly permit another person to
use, his or her operator's or chauffeur's license;
(d)    Display or represent as one's own any operator's or chauffeur's license issued to another person;


175




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(e)    Furnish to a police officer false verbal or written information
identifying the person as another person if the person is detained for a violation
of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Act, as amended, or this Ordinance.
(4)  Instruction Permits. It shall be unlawful for an operator holding
an instruction permit to operate a motor vehicle unless accompanied by a licensed operator or chauffeur who is actually occupying a seat beside the driver.
(5)  Permitting Unlicensed Driver to Drive,         No person shall knowingly authorize or permit a motor vehicle owned by or under his or her control to
be driven by any person who is not licensed as an operator or chauffeur as required by the Michigan Vehicle Code, or by any person whose operator's or
chauffeur's license is then canceled, revoked, suspended, altered or denied.
(6)  License Plates. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on University streets without having the motor vehicle equipped with license plates as provided in the Michigan Vehicle Code, Act 300, Public Acts of 1949, as amended.
(7)  Reckless Driving and Drag Racing.
(a)    No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street or a frozen lake,
stream, pond, or river or other place open to the general public including any
area designated for the parking of a motor vehicle in a willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others, or without due caution and circumspection
and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any
person or property.
(b)    No person shall operate any vehicle upon a street; or any other
place open to the general public, including any area designated for the parking
of a motor vehicle in a speed or acceleration contest or for the purpose of making a speed record, whether from a standing start or otherwise over a measured
or unmeasured distance or in a drag race as herein defined. "Drag Racing"
means the operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance each other over a common selected course or where timing is involved or when timing devices are
used in competitive acceleration of speeds by participating vehicles. Persons
rendering assistance in any manner to such competitive use of vehicles shall be
equally charged as participants. The operation of two or more vehicles either at
speeds in excess of prima facie lawfully established speeds or rapidly accelerating from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speed is prima facie evidence of drag racing and is unlawful.
(8) Careless Driving. No person shall drive any vehicle upon a street or
a frozen lake, stream, or pond or other place open to the general public including
any area designated for the parking of vehicles in a careless or negligent manner
likely to endanger any person or property, but without wantonness or
recklessness.
(9) Using Intoxicants or Controlled Substances.
(a)    It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, who
is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance or any
combination thereof, to operate a vehicle upon any street or any other place
open to the general public, including an area designated for the parking of
vehicles.
(b)    It shall be unlawful for any person whose blood contains 0.10%
or more by weight of alcohol to operate a vehicle upon a University street or
other place open to the general public, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles.
(c)    It shall be unlawful for any person whose ability to operate a vehicle is visibly impaired by the consumption of intoxicating liquor or a


176




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


controlled substance or any combination thereof, to operate a vehicle upon any
street or any other place open to the general public, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles.
(d)   Blood alcohol tests may be administered and the test results utilized in prosecutions under this section in accordance with the provisions of the
Section 1415a of the Uniform Traffic Code (1981 AACS, R28-1415a), as
amended. It shall be unlawful for a person to refuse to submit to a preliminary
chemical breath analysis authorized under the Uniform Traffic Code.
(10)    Permitting Intoxicated or Drugged Person to Operate Vehicle. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any vehicle or any person in charge
or in control of a vehicle to authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon any street or any other place open to the general public, including an
area designated for the parking of vehicles, by any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance or any combination thereof.
(11)    Backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless
such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with
other traffic, and in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   In no case shall a vehicle be backed a distance of more than sixty
feet.
(b)   No vehicle shall be backed around a corer at an intersection of
University streets unless preceded by an observer to safely direct the movement.
(12)    Vehicles Shall not Be Driven on a Sidewalk. The driver of a
vehicle shall not drive upon or within any sidewalk area except at a driveway,
unless the driver shall first obtain the written permission of the Director of Publie Safety or the Director's written designee, or except if the vehicle is a University maintenance vehicle or emergency vehicle.
(13)    Drive in Traffic Lanes, It shall be a violation of this Ordinance
for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any legally marked traffic lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement. A vehicle
shall be driven as nearly as practicable within a single lane and shall not be
moved from such lane until the driver has first ascertained such movement can
be made with safety.
(14)    Avoidance of Signal. No operator shall attempt to avoid obedience to any traffic control device by driving upon or through any adjoining
property.
(15)    Splashing.   No person shall recklessly, willfully, wantonly, or
carelessly operate any vehicle in such manner as to splash snow, rain, water,
mud, dirt, or debris on any person then upon a sidewalk or crosswalk.
(16)    Leaking or Spilling. No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any
street unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents
from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(17)    Crossing Fire Hose. No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department without the consent of the fire department official in command.
(18)    Sleds, Coasting Wagons Restricted. No person riding in or by
means of any sled, coasting wagon, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon
any roadway except while crossing such person shall be granted all of the rights
of pedestrians.


177




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(19)    Clinging to Vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, coasting wagon, sled, roller skates, roller blades or any
toy vehicle shall attach the same or the person to any vehicle upon any street.
(20)    Boarding or Alighting from Vehicles. No person shall board
or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
(21)    Weight Restrictions.     When signs are erected giving     notice
thereof, no person shall operate or stop, stand, or park any truck or commercial
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified thereon at any time
upon any of the streets on which such signs have been posted.
(22)    Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load. Whenever the load upon
any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more beyond the bed or body of such
vehicle there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load, during the
hours between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, and
at any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible
persons and vehicles on the street at a distance of five hundred (500) feet ahead,
a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred (500)
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this section
shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any
other time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red flag
or cloth not less than twelve (12) inches square and so hung that the entire area
is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(24)    Obstruction to Driver's View or Control.
(a)    No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when
there are in the front seat such number of persons as to obstruct the view of the
driver in the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. No person shall drive any motor vehicle with a window so damaged or with any sign, poster, or other
non-transparent material upon the front windshield, sidewings, side or rear
windows of such vehicle, as to obstruct the driver's view, other than a certificate
or other paper required to be so displayed by law. No person shall drive any
motor vehicle when the driver's view through the front windshield is obstructed
by ice, frost, snow, dirt or other matter so as to constitute a hazard.
(b)    No operator shall drive a motor vehicle with more than two other
persons in the seat with the operator.
(c)    No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(25)    Truck Routes. As used in this section "truck" shall mean "truck",
"truck tractor", "trailer", "semi-trailer", as defined in Act 300, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1949, or any combination thereof.
(a)    The operation of any truck exceeding 30 feet in length or 12 tons
gross weight (including operator and cargo) is prohibited upon every University
street except Primary Truck Routes designated as such by Traffic Control
Orders.
(b)    The operation of trucks exceeding 22 feet in length or five tons
gross with (including operator and cargo) is prohibited upon every University
street except those streets designated as Primary Truck Routes and Secondary
Truck Routes designated as such by Traffic Control Orders.
(c)    Provided however, that no provision of this section shall prohibit:
(i)   The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street.


178




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(ii)  The operations of trucks owned or operated by
the University, any contractor or material person while engaged in the repair, maintenance
or construction or improvements of streets,
buildings or utilities on University property.
(iii)  The operation of a truck upon any officially established detour in any case where such trucks
could lawfully be operated upon the street for
which such detour is established.
(iv)  Any truck which is taking departure from or
proceeding to a destination on a prohibited
street from operating on such prohibited
streets as may be reasonably necessary in traveling to or from, as the case may be, the nearest
street intersection on a street wherein such
truck is permitted to operate.
(v)   Any truck while engaged in one or more local
pickups or deliveries from using such prohibited streets as may be reasonably necessary in
so doing, provided that such truck shall upon
completion of the last pickup or delivery, return by the shortest route to the nearest street
upon which it is permitted to operate.
(d)    It shall be the duty of any person who shall be driving or in
charge or control of any truck which may at that time be upon any University
street upon which truck travel is limited or restricted, upon the demand of any
police officer, to proceed to any public or private scale available for the purpose
of weighing and determining whether the weight thereof is in excess of the
weight limited permitted upon such street.
(e)    The operation of any truck in violation of controlling axle weight
restrictions is prohibited on designated truck routes and non-truck route streets
when temporary weight restrictions are put into effect by the Washtenaw
County Weight Master.
(26)    Truck Identification. No person shall engage in commerce in
the operation on the streets of the University a motor truck, tractor, trailer or
semi-trailer unless it shall have painted or otherwise lettered upon it the name of
the business, the business address, the phone number of the registered owner of
the vehicle and the lessee of the vehicle if the vehicle is being operated under
lease. The letters of this information shall be not less than 3 inches in height.
The information shall be conspicuously placed on the outside of the vehicle. This
section shall not be applicable to trucks eligible for and equipped with farm commercial license plates.
(27)    Vehicle widthso
(a)    Except as provided in subsection (b), no person shall operate on
any street a vehicle whose total outside width, including load, exceeds the applicable limits specified in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code.
(b)    The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the
Executive Vice President's written designee is hereby authorized to adopt traffic
control orders, as provided in section 26 of this Article, designating certain
University streets on which persons who obtain a written permit from the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee may operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles whose
total outside width, including load, shall not exceed 102 inches. No person
shall operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles that exceeds the limits


179




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


specified in subsection (a) except in compliance with a written permit from the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice
President's written designee issued under this subsection if the requested activity would violate section 722(9), (10), (11) or (12) of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code.
(c)   The operator of a vehicle or the owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for a violation of this section.
Section 17.      Equipment
(1)  Sound trucks. No sound truck or other vehicle using any amplifier
or loudspeaker shall be driven upon any street for the purpose of selling, offering
for sale, advertising, or other commercial purpose.
(2)  Lights. Every vehicle upon a University street shall be equipped with
lights which shall be lighted in accordance with the provisions of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Act 300, Public Acts of Michigan, 1949, as amended. Whenever a
vehicle is parked upon the street during the night time, it shall have displayed
thereon toward the rear 1 red light which shall be visible for 500 feet; or when
mounted on the left rear of the vehicle a red reflector which shall be not less that
2 square inches in area.
(3)  Spotlights. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed 2
spot lamps, and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used when approaching another vehicle that no part of the beam will be directed into the eyes
of the approaching driver. Spot lamps may not emit other than either a white or
amber light.
(4) Flashing and colored lights. No vehicle except those authorized by
law shall display the following: (i) any flashing light except directional signals,
(ii) a red light to the front, or (iii) a green light to the rear.
(5)  Brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-draw vehicles
when operated upon University property shall be equipped with brakes of the
construction and stopping capabilities required by section 1479 of the Uniform
Traffic Code (1981 AACS, R 28.1479), as amended.
(6)  Windshield.
(a)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a
device for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which
device shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by a driver of a
vehicle.
(b)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained
in good working order.
(c)   No commercial vehicle licensed as such, shall be operated on
University property at any time between December 15 and March 15, both dates
inclusive, unless it is equipped with a hot air windshield defroster or an electrically heated windshield or such other scientific method that may be devised so
long as same is heated and maintained in operable condition at all times.
(d)   No motor vehicle licensed as such, and manufactured after January 1, 1956, shall be operated on University property unless it is equipped with
a windshield washer maintained in operable condition at all times and capable
of cleaning the windshield in such a fashion as to leave the driver with a clear
view of the street or any intersecting street.
(7)  Turn Signals. Every motor vehicle, when required by the Michigan
Vehicle Code, as amended, shall be equipped with, and required turn signals shall
be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device.


180




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(8)  Commercial Vehicles - Mud Flaps. Every commercial vehicle and
every combination of a commercial vehicle and trailer or of a truck tractor and
semi-trailer when used on a street shall be so constructed or equipped, or so operated, as to bar water or other road surface substances thrown from the rear
wheels of such vehicle or combination at tangents exceeding twenty-two and onehalf (22-1/2) degrees measured from the road surface. If flap type device is used,
it shall not have attached any type of lamp, reflective material or reflecting buttons; nor shall the device extend beyond the ninety-six (96) inch maximum width
of vehicle.
(9)  Tires.
(a)    No vehicle nor special mobile equipment shall be operated on
University property on metal or plastic track or on tires which are equipped
with metal that comes in contact with the surface of the road or which have a
partial contact of metal or plastic with the surface of the road, except as provided in subsection (c).
(b)    No tire on a vehicle moved on a University street shall have on
its periphery any block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberances
of any material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire, except that it shall be permissible to use farm machinery
with tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets, and except
that it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any
vehicle when required for safety because of snow, or other conditions tending to
cause a vehicle to skid, and except also as provided in subsection (c).
(c) Subsections (a) and (b) above shall not apply to University maintenance vehicles and construction vehicles owned and/or operated by University
employees or contractors.
(10)    View to Rear, Mirrors. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on
a street which motor vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent the driver
from obtaining a view of the street to the rear by looking backward from the
driver's position, unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to
reflect to the driver a view of the street to the rear of such vehicle. Every commercial vehicle of one-half (1/2) ton capacity or more, operating upon the street
shall be equipped with two (2) mirrors, one on each side, so adjusted that the operator shall have a clear view of the street behind such commercial vehicle. In
addition, all motor vehicles shall be equipped with an outside rear view mirror
on the driver's side which shall be positioned to give the driver a rear-viewing
angle from the driver's side of the vehicle. On motorcycles and motor driven cycles this mirror shall be secured to the handlebar of said motorcycle or motor
driven cycles and shall be positioned to give the driver a rear viewing angle from
the driver's seat.
(11)    Improper or Inadequate Equipment Inspection. No person
shall drive or move, and no owner shall cause or knowingly permit to be driven
or moved on any street any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in such
unsafe condition as to endanger any person or which does not contain those
parts or is not at all times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in
proper condition and adjustment as required by this Ordinance, or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of this Ordinance. Any police officer is
hereby authorized on reasonable ground shown to stop any motor vehicle and inspect the same, and if any defects in equipment are found, to arrest the driver.
(12)    Size, Weight and Load. No person shall drive or move or cause
or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street any vehicle or vehicles
of width, height, length or weight in excess of the limitations governing size and
weight restrictions specified in the Michigan Vehicle Code, Act 300, Public Acts
of Michigan, 1949, as amended.


181




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(13)    Safety Belts.
(a)    Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated
on a street shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt, except that
child less than four years of age shall be protected as required by state law.
Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child four years of age or more
but less than sixteen years of age in the front seat of a motor vehicle shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt.
(b)    This section shall not apply to a driver or a passenger of:
(i)   A motor vehicle manufactured before January
1, 1965.
(ii)  A bus.
(iii)  A motorcycle.
(iv)  A moped.
(v)   A motor vehicle if the driver or passenger possesses a written verification from a physician
that the driver or passenger is unable to wear a
safety belt for physical or medical reasons,
(vi)  A motor vehicle which is not required to be
equipped with safety belts under federal law.
(vii) A commercial or a United States Postal service
vehicle which makes frequent stops for the purposes of pickup or delivery of goods or services.
(c)  Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as a secondary
action when a driver of a motor vehicle has been detained of a suspected violation of another section of this Ordinance or of state law.
Section 18. Authorized Emergency Vehicles.
(1)  Rules Inapplicable.
(a)    The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call, but not while returning therefrom, may exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein stated. The
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
(i)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of
this Article.
(ii)  Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign,
but only after slowing down to the extent as
may be necessary for safe operation.
(iii)  Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as
the driver does not endanger life or property.
(iv)  Disregard regulations governing direction of
movement or turning in specified directions.
(b)    This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
others and the violation of such duty shall abrogate the privileges otherwise
granted such driver under this section.


182




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(2)  Emergency Vehicle Signals. The privileges granted by Section
18(1) to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any
said vehicle while in motion sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust
whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at
least one lighted lamp displaying a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue
light or any combination thereof visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the front of such vehicle except that
an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red or blue light visible from in front of the vehicle.
(3) Emergency Vehicles Right of Way. Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped with at least one (1) lighted
flashing, rotating or oscillating lamp exhibiting a red or blue light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the
front of such vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way
and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right edge or curb of the roadway (or left edge on a one-way street) clear of
any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
(4)  Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited. The driver of any vehicle
other than an authorized emergency vehicle on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred
(500) feet or drive into or park such vehicle within five hundred (500) feet of, or
within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
Section 19.     Accidents.
(1) Stop at Scene of Accident. The driver of any vehicle involved in
an accident resulting in injury to or death to any person, or resulting in damage
to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible, but shall
then forthwith return to and in every event remain at the scene of the accident
until the driver has fulfilled the requirements of section 19(2). Every such stop
shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
(2) Give Information and Render Aid. The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to
any vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall give his or her name,
address and the registration number of the vehicle the driver is driving and shall
exhibit his or her operator's or chauffeur's license to the person struck or the
driver of, or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle collided with and
where practical shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the making of arrangements for the transportation of such
person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if
necessary, or if such transportation is required by the injured person.
(3) Report to Police. Every person driving or operating a vehicle involved in any accident upon University property which causes injury to a person
or results in a vehicle or vehicles becoming so disabled as to be incapable of being
propelled in the usual manner shall within twenty-four (24) hours from the time
of said accident make a complete report to the Department of Public Safety upon
blanks furnished by the Department upon application to it. The Department of
Public Safety may require the driver of a vehicle involved in an accident of which
report must be made as provided in this section to file supplemental reports
whenever the original report is insufficient in the opinion of said Department,
and may require witnesses of accidents to render reports to said Department.
(4) When Passenger to Report. Whenever the driver of a vehicle is
physically incapable of making a required accident report and there was another
occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making a report,
such occupant shall make or cause to be made said report.


183




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(5)  Striking Unattended Vehicle. The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop, and shall then
and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the
name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended
vehicle, or if such person cannot be located, shall leave securely attached in a
conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof, and shall report such accident as provided in
section 19(3).
(6)  Duty upon striking fixtures on a street or roadway. In addition
to any other requirements imposed by this Article, the driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage to personal property or fixtures legally
upon or adjacent to a street shall immediately take reasonable steps to locate and
notify the owner or person in charge of such property of such fact, and of the
driver's name and address and of the registration number of the vehicle he or she
is driving, and shall upon request exhibit the driver's operator's or chauffeur's license and shall make a report of such accident as provided in section 19(3).
(7)  Accident reports confidential. All accident reports shall be without prejudice to the individual reporting, and shall be for the confidential use of
the Department of Public Safety and the Commissioner of State Police, except
that the Department of Public Safety may disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when such identity is not otherwise known or when such
person denies his or her presence at such accident. No such report shall be used
as evidence in any court action arising out of an accident, except that the Department of Public Safety shall furnish, upon demand of any person who has or
claims to have made such a report or upon demand of any court, a certificate
showing that a specified accident report has or has not been made to the Department of Public Safety solely to prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the
requirement that such a report be made to the Department of Public Safety.
(8) Vehicle repairs and inoperative or unregistered vehicles,
(a)   Vehicle repairs. No person shall disassemble, construct, reconstruct or conduct major repairs upon a motor vehicle on the streets, parking
lots, or parking structures of the University. A reasonable time, not to exceed
48 hours from the time of disability, shall be permitted for the removal or emergency servicing of a disabled vehicle on the streets, parking lots or parking
structures of the University.
(b)   Unregistered vehicles. No person shall park, store, leave, or allow to be left upon the streets, parking lots, or parking structures of the University, any motor vehicle not displaying current license plates registered to that
vehicle.
(9) Snow Emergencies.
(a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following words
and phrases shall have the following meanings:
(i)   Snow emergency route. A street or portion of a
street which has been, by traffic control order,
designated by the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice
President's written designee as a snow emergency route. If parking is normally permitted
on such street, it shall clearly be marked by
signs indicating that it is a snow emergency
route.
(ii)  Secondary streets. Any street not designated as
a snow emergency route.


184




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(b)   Prohibited parking on snow emergency routes.
(i)  Whenever the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice
President's written designee finds, on the basis
of snow, sleet, freezing rain, or on the basis of a
weather forecast, that weather conditions make
it necessary to restrict parking on snow emergency routes, the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice
President's written designee may put in effect a
parking prohibition on snow emergency routes
by providing the notice of the prohibition in
the manner prescribed by this section.
(ii)  When a parking prohibition is in effect for
snow emergency routes, no person shall park a
motor vehicle or permit a vehicle owned by him
or her to remain parked on any portion of a
snow emergency route.
(c)   Prohibited parking on secondary streets.
(i)  Whenever the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice
President's written designee finds, on the basis
of snow, sleet, freezing rain, or on the basis of a
weather forecast, that weather conditions make
it necessary to restrict parking for snow plowing or other purposes, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the
Executive Vice President's written designee
may put into effect a parking prohibition on
some or all second priority streets by providing
the notice in the manner prescribed by this
section.
(ii)  When a prohibition on parking on secondary
streets is in effect, no person shall park a vehicle or permit a vehicle owned by him or her to
remain parked on the following-described portions of secondary streets:
(a) On days having uneven dates, vehicles
are prohibited from parking on the
side of the street having uneven street
numbers.
(b) On days having even dates, vehicles
are prohibited from parking on the
side of the street having even street
numbers.
(d)   Notice.
(i)  The prohibitions provided in this section shall
take effect when the Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive
Vice President's written designee causes notice
of such prohibitions to be publicly announced
by radio stations with normal operating ranges
covering the University. The prohibitions shall
then take effect at the time provided in the


185




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


announcements. However, the prohibition for
parking on secondary streets shall not take effect earlier than 12 hours after the first such
announcement. The Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive
Vice President's written designee may also
cause notice of the parking prohibition to be
published in newspapers of general circulation
when feasible.
(ii)  The parking prohibitions provided by this section shall remain in effect until the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or
the Executive Vice President's written designee
makes a public announcement of the termination of the prohibitions. However, in the case
of secondary streets, the prohibition shall terminate for the part of a street which has become substantially clear of snow and ice from
curb to curb for the length thereof lying between two successive street intersections.
(e)    Nothing contained in this section permits parking at times or
places where it is otherwise prohibited by this Ordinance.
Section 20. Motorcycles and Motor-Driven Cycles.
(1)  Motorcycles and mopeds.
(a)    Rights and Duties.  Every person operating a motorcycle or
moped on the streets of the University shall be granted all rights and shall be
subject to all duties applicable to the drivers of other vehicles, except as to the
special regulations of this section and except as to those regulations which by
their nature do not have application.
(b)    Helmets. A person operating or riding on a motorcycle and any
person less than 19 years of age operating a moped on a street shall wear on his
or her head a crash helmet of a type approved by the Department of State
Police.
(c)    Passengers. A motorcycle shall not be used to carry more persons at 1 time than the number for which it is designed and equipped. A moped
shall not be used to carry more than 1 person at a time.
(d)    Carrying objects. A person operating a motorcycle or moped
shall not carry any object which prevents keeping both hands upon the handle
bars.
(e)    Goggles. When a motorcycle operated in excess of 35 mph is not
equipped with a windshield, the operator shall wear eyeglasses, goggles, or a
face shield which shall be shatter resistant and of sufficient size to protect the
eyes form air-borne material.
(f)    Riding Abreast. Motorcycles or mopeds shall not be operated
more than 2 abreast in a single lane.
(g)    Sidewalks. No person shall operate a motorcycle upon any sidewalk, bicycle path or bicycle lane.
(h)    No person shall operate a motorcycle or moped which is not
equipped with all lights and other safety equipment required by law.


186




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 21.     Pedestrians crossing streets.
(1) No pedestrian shall cross a street at a location other than at a crosswalk into which vehicle traffic is then restricted by a traffic control device unless
such crossing may be done safely and without interfering with motor vehicle and
bicycle traffic on that street.
(2) No operator of a motor vehicle or bicycle shall interfere with pedestrian or bicycle traffic in a crosswalk into which vehicle traffic is then restricted
by a traffic control device.
Section 22.     Animal-drawn vehicles. Every person driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon a street shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of
the vehicle, except those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application.
Section 23.     Parades and Competitive Events.
(1) As used in this section, "parade" means any procession of 25 or more
persons or vehicles in University streets. It includes noncompetitive bikeathons
and walkathons but does not include funerals, picketing at a single location or
processions of less than 50 persons on sidewalks and in compliance with traffic
control signals.
(2) As used in this section, "competitive event" means any race or other
form of competition on University streets or sidewalks. It includes, but is not
limited to, competition by foot, bicycle, motor vehicle, skateboard, roller skates
or wheelchair.
(3) No person shall organize, promote, stage or sponsor any parade or
competitive event on University streets or sidewalks without first obtaining a
permit from the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee and without complying with the conditions of the permit.
(4) Application for a permit shall be made on forms prescribed by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee. The forms may require information on the event's
location, time, medical facilities, safety equipment and such other information as
the Executive Vice President or the Executive Vice President's designee may
need to determine whether a permit should be issued. Permits shall be granted
or refused based on the safety and welfare of the participants, the public and on
the degree of interference with the use of the University streets or with other
University activities or operations.
(5) The granting of a permit may be conditioned upon proof of insurance
protecting the University, agreements to indemnify the University, liability waivers, and payment of the costs of providing needed police assistance or other forms
of University assistance.
(6)  No permit for a parade shall be refused because of political or religious beliefs of the participants.
(7) The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee may adopt regulations to facilitate the
enforcement of this section.
Section 24.     Obey police directions. No person shall willfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of any police officer, nor shall any person willfully fail
or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any member of the City of Ann Arbor's
Fire Department at the scene of a fire.
Section 25.     Responsibility for minor. The parent or guardian of a child shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child to violate any of the provisions of this Article.


187




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 26o       Traffic Control Orders.
(1)  Adoption of Traffic Control Orders. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee is hereby authorized to issue and adopt rules and regulations, also called
Traffic Control Orders, concerning the stopping or yielding of the right of way at
intersections; restrictions on speed in parking lots or within parking structures;
restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking; the designation of one-way streets,
roadways, or alleys; the establishment of cross-walks, turn restrictions, through
streets, angle parking, curb loading zones; public carrier stands; parking meter
zones and spaces; increasing or decreasing the prima facie lawful speed limits;
and the establishment, maintenance, and removal of traffic control signs, signals,
and devices in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Traffic Control
Orders shall have the full force and effect of this Ordinance and be subject to the
penalties for violations thereof provided in this Ordinance.
(2)  Current Regulations. All intersection stops and yield right-of-way
requirements, regulations on stopping, standing, or parking; one-way streets,
roadways, and alleys; crosswalks; restricted turns; through streets; angle parking
zones; curb loading zones, public carrier stands; parking meter zones and spaces;
prima facie speed limits; no passing zones; and traffic control devices heretofore
established and effective on the effective date of this Ordinance, shall be deemed
established under Traffic Control Orders and shall remain effective until rescinded or modified by a Traffic Control Order.
(3) Procedure and Notice. In exercising the authority by this Section
in the issuance of Traffic Control Orders, the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee may issue
Traffic Control Orders to regulate the following:
(a)    Intersection stops. Traffic control orders may be issued to determine and designate intersections where conditions warrant the stopping of traffic, or requiring traffic to yield the right-of-way to cross traffic and to determine
whether vehicles shall stop or yield the right-of-way at one or more entrances to
any such intersection. A stop sign shall be erected at every place where a stop
is required, except at those intersections which are controlled by automatic signals or other traffic-control devices. A yield right-of-way sign shall be erected
at every place where approaching traffic is required to yield the right-of-way.
(b)    Stopping, standing or parking. Traffic control orders may be issued to prohibit or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any
street or upon any University property; and signs giving notice thereof, shall be
erected.
(c)    One-way streets, roadways and alleys. Traffic control orders may
be issued to designate one-way streets, roadways, or alleys. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(d)     Crosswalks. Traffic control orders may be issued to designate
and maintain by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the
roadway crosswalks at those places where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(e)    Restricted turn signs. Traffic control orders may be issued to determine those streets or intersections of such streets from which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and proper signs shall be placed
upon such streets and at such intersections. The making of such turns may be
prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are unrestricted.


188




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(f)    Through streets. Traffic control orders may be issued to designate through streets if stops signs are erected at the entrances thereof, subject to
the approval of the State Highway Commission if a state truckline highway is
involved.
(g)    Play streets. Traffic control orders may be issued to declare and
to establish any street or part thereof, a play street, and appropriate signs and
barricades enclosing the roadway indicting that said street is closed temporarily
to vehicular traffic, shall be erected. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then any said
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any said street or portion
thereof.
(h)    Angle parking. Traffic control orders may be issued to fix the location of angle parking zones, and appropriate signs indicating the same shall
be erected.
(i)    All-night parking. Traffic control orders may be issued to prohibit all-night parking. Signs shall be erected giving notice thereof upon any
street or portion thereof affected thereby except where such regulation is uniform and general throughout the University and signs not less than three (3)
feet by four (4) feet have been posted on University streets.
(j)    Curb loading zones. Traffic control orders may be issued to fix
the location of curb loading zones. Where facilities are available for deliveries
from the alley no such zones shall be established. Appropriate signs at such locations indicating the same and stating the hours during which such zones shall
be restricted for loading purposes shall be erected and maintained.
(k)    Public carrier stands. Traffic control orders may be issued to establish bus stops, bus stands and taxicab stands, on the streets, in such places
and in such number as shall be determined to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop, bus stand or taxicab stand, shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
(1)    Weight restrictions. Traffic control orders may be issued to prohibit the use of any street by trucks or other commercial vehicles, and to impose
limitations as to the weight thereof on designated streets, but said prohibitions
and limitations shall not become effective until notice thereof is given by means
of appropriate signs placed on such streets and highways.
(m)    No passing zones. Traffic control orders may be issued to establish no-passing zones and thereby determine areas where the provisions of section 1 1(7) shall be applicable. Signs shall be erected indicating such restriction
and the limits thereof
(n)    Traffic control devices. Traffic control orders may be issued to
place and maintain, or remove, traffic-control signs, signals, and other devices
and to determine the hours and days during which any traffic control device
shall be in operation or be in effect.
Copies of Traffic Control Orders hereafter adopted shall be compiled and maintained and
open to public inspection at the Office of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee.
(4) Signs and Markings. Wherever any regulation, rule, or Traffic
Control Order requires any signs or establishes any lane or zone, the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's
written designee shall forthwith erect such signs and mark lanes and zones in accordance therewith. Every street marking or sign which delimits the center line,


189




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


any lane, zone, area, or space, shall be conclusively presumed to correctly delimit
such line, lane, zone, area, or space.
Section 27.     Abandonment and Imound     ing of Vehicles.
(1)  Limitation on Duration of Parking. No person shall park a motor vehicle for forty-eight (48) or more consecutive hours in any parking area of
The University of Michigan, unless he shall secure from the Office of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's
written designee, and display in said vehicle, a Storage Parking Permit.
(2)  Removal of Abandoned Vehicles. Any motor vehicle parked for
forty-eight (48) or more consecutive hours after a written notice has been affixed
to the vehicle in any parking area of The University of Michigan shall be deemed
to be abandoned and, at the request of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee may be removed and impounded by appropriate law enforcement officers for disposition in
accordance with Section 2.5a of The Michigan Uniform Traffic Code (1981
AACS, R.28.1105a), as amended.
(3) Storage Parking Permit. The provisions of Subsections (1) and (2)
of this Section shall not apply to vehicles for which a Storage Parking Permit has
been issued, including, but not limited to, vehicles stored by students in Open
Parking Areas, provided such permit is displayed conspicuously thereon.
(4)  Removal of Vehicles Not Otherwise Abandoned. Any motor vehicle, though not abandoned, may be removed and impounded by appropriate
law enforcement officers at the request of the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee for disposition in accordance with Section 2.5 of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code (1981
AACS, R28.1105), as amended, in any of the following circumstances:
(a)   when a vehicle is in such a condition that continued operation of
the vehicle would constitute an immediate hazard to the public;
(b)   when a vehicle is parked so as to create an immediate hazard or
obstruction of traffic on any street or drive, or in any entrance, exit, driveway or
aisleway of any parking lot or structure;
(c)   when a vehicle is left unattended on a bridge, viaduct, causeway,
subway, tube or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction of traffic;
(d)   when a disabled vehicle on a street or drive or in any parking lot
or structure constitutes an obstruction to traffic and the operator of the vehicle
is incapacitated and unable to provide for the vehicle's custody and removal;
(e)   when a vehicle is left unattended on a street or drive or in a parking lot or structure and is parked in a manner which constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
(f)   when the driver of the vehicle is taken into custody by a law enforcement officer and the vehicle would thereby be left unattended;
(g)   when removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of fire, flood, storm, snow, or other emergency reason;
(h)   when the vehicle is parked in a designated tow-away zone which
is properly signposted.
(5)  Payment of Charges for Impounded Vehicles. Any vehicle impounded shall not be released until all parking charges, storing and towing
charges and fines, if any, or an appropriate storage and towing bond is posted by
the owner in accordance with Section 2.5 of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code
(1981 AACS, R28.1105), as amended.


190




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 28.      Vehicular Noise Control.
(1)   Definitions. The definitions contained in Section 2 of Article XIII
are incorporated herein and shall apply to the provisions of this section.
(2)  Horns and other warning devices. A person shall not operate a
motor vehicle in a manner or with equipment that does not comply with the following requirements:
(a)    A motor vehicle, when operated on University property, shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet but a
horn or other warning device shall not emit an unreasonably loud or harsh
sound or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to insure safe operation, give audible warning with the horn but shall not
otherwise use the horn.
(b)    A vehicle shall not be equipped with nor shall a person use upon
a vehicle a siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this section.
(c)    A commercial vehicle may be equipped with a theft alarm signal
device which is so arranged that it cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary
warning signal.
(d)    An authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, air horn, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet, but the siren shall not be used
except when the vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law. In those cases
the driver of the vehicle shall sound the siren when necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach of the vehicle.
(e)    A motor vehicle licensed as a historic vehicle may be equipped
with a siren, whistle, or bell which may be used when participating in a parade,
exhibition, tour, or similar event.
(3)  Mufflers and exhaust systems.
(a)    A person shall not operate a motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation
to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke. A person shall not
remove, destroy, or damage any of the baffles contained in the muffler, nor
shall a person use a muffler cutout bypass, or similar device upon a motor vehicle, on University property.
(b)    A person shall not operate a motor vehicle unless the engine and
power mechanism of the motor vehicle is so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(c)    A person shall not operate a motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle is equipped with a properly operating exhaust system which shall include a
tailpipe and resonator on a vehicle where the original design included a tailpipe
and resonator.
(4)  Exhaust Systems and Backfiring Devices.
(a)    A person shall not operate a motor vehicle unless the vehicle is
equipped with an exhaust system in good working order to prevent excessive or
unusual noise and is equipped to prevent noise in excess of the limits established in section 28(5) of this Article.
(b)    No person shall introduce any gasoline, foreign material or obstruction into the muffler or exhaust pipe which causes or is capable of causing
exhaust gases to ignite, burn or flash in any manner or form.


191




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(c)   For purposes of sections 28(4) to 28(6) of this Article, a motor
vehicle does not include special mobile equipment.
(5)  Vehicle Noise Limits.
(a)   A person shall not operate a motor vehicle on University property
if the motor vehicle produces total noise exceeding 1 of the following limits at a
distance of 50 feet except as provided in subdivisions (i)(c) and (iii)(c) below:
(i)   A motor vehicle with a gross weight or gross
vehicle weight rating of 8,500 pounds or more,
combination vehicle with gross weight or gross
vehicle weight ratings of 8,500 pounds or more.
(a) Ninety dB(A) if the maximum lawful
speed is greater than 35 miles per
hour.
(b) Eighty-six dB(A) if the maximum lawful speed is not more than 35 miles
per hour.
(c) Eighty-eight dB(A) under stationary
run-up test.
(ii)  A motorcycle or a moped:
(a) Eighty-six dB(A) if the maximum lawful speed is greater than 35 miles per
hour.
(b) Eighty-two dB(A) if the maximum
lawful speed is not more than 35
miles per hour.
(c) Ninety-five dB(A) under stationary
run-up test at 75 inches.
(iii) A motor vehicle or a combination of vehicles
towed by a motor vehicle not covered in subdivision (i) or (ii).
(a) Eighty-two dB(A) if the maximum
lawful speed is greater than 35 miles
per hour.
(b) Seventy-six dB(A) if the maximum
lawful speed is not more than 35
miles per hour.
(c) Ninety-five dB(A) under stationary
run-up test 20 inches from the end of
the tailpipe.
(b) A person shall not operate a vehicle on University property if the vehicle has a defect in the exhaust system which affects sound reduction, is not
equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipative device, or is equipped with a
cutout, bypass, amplifier, or a similar device.
(6) Test Procedures. Test instrumentation and procedures used for implementation and enforcement of sections 28(4) and 28(5) of this Article shall
substantially conform with applicable standards and recommended practices established by the Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc., and the American National Standards Institute, Inc., for the measurement of motor vehicle sound


192




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


levels. Rules establishing these test procedures that have been promulgated by
the Department of State Highways and Transportation shall also be followed in
the implementation and enforcement of sections 28(4) and 28(5) of this Article.
If such rules so provide, sound level measurements may be made at other than
the distances specified in section 28(5), provided that the decibel limits applied at
the other distances are adjusted accordingly.
Section 29.     Handicapped Parking.
(1) Parking in Restricted Parking Areas. A handicapped person may
park a motor vehicle in a Restricted Parking Area by (i) securing and displaying
a University handicapped parking permit from the University's Office of Parking
Services or (ii) securing and displaying a State of Michigan certificate of identification or special automobile registration plates issued for the handicapped under
the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code or such certificate or plates issued under the
laws of any other state, provided such person also secures and displays the University parking permit required for such restricted structure or lot under Section
3 of Article II of this Ordinance. In either event, the handicapped person must
comply with all rules and regulations applicable to such restricted parking area.
Said permits will allow the handicapped person to park in either a marked handicapped parking space or in any other duly-designated parking space in the restricted lot or structure.
(2) Open Parking and Other Parking Areas. A handicapped person
may park a motor vehicle in an Open Parking Area or in any other parking area
made temporarily available for parking by members of the public by complying
with any other requirements necessary for a member of the public to park in
such University lot or structure. A handicapped person displaying either a University handicapped parking permit or a State of Michigan certificate of identification or special automobile registration plates for the handicapped issued under
the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code or such certificate or plates issued under the
laws of any other state may park in either a marked handicapped parking space
or in any other duly-designated parking space in the Open Parking Area or other
parking area made temporarily available for parking by members of the public.
(3) Limited-Purpose Parking Areas. A handicapped person may park
a motor vehicle in a Limited-Purpose Parking Area only in accordance with Section 2(4) of Article II this Ordinance.
(4) Prohibited Parking Areas. A handicapped person may park a motor vehicle only in a duly-designated parking space and otherwise in accordance
with this Ordinance and may not park in any places where parking is prohibited, such as in fire lanes or elsewhere.
(5) Illegal Parking in Handicapped Space. No person shall park a
motor vehicle in a marked handicapped parking space in any University lot or
structure without displaying either a University handicapped parking permit or
a State of Michigan certificate of identification or special automobile registration
plate issued for the handicapped under the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code or such
certificate or plates issued under the laws of any other state, and without meeting the other requirements under this Section 29 to park in such parking space.
(6) Illegal Use of Handicapped Permit. No person shall park a motor
vehicle bearing a University handicapped parking permit or a State of Michigan
certificate of identification or special automobile registration plate issued for the
handicapped under the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code or such certificate or plates
issued under the laws of any other state when such person is not either a handicapped person or parking the motor vehicle for the benefit of a handicapped
person.


193




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 30.     Bicyclists
(1) Driver Regulation Applicable. Every person riding a bicycle upon
a street shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle under this Ordinance, except as to
those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(2) Riding Abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride
abreast when a motor vehicle traveling behind bicycles operated abreast sounds
its horn. At sounding of a horn, bicycles shall be operated single file until motor
vehicles traveling behind have had an opportunity to pass them.
(3)  Clinging to Vehicles. No person operating a bicycle shall cling or
attach himself or herself, or the bicycle to any other moving vehicle.
(4) Number and Manner of Carrying Persons. No person shall ride
upon any bicycle:
(a)   Other than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached
thereto.
(b)   Which is being used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(5) Lights. No bicycle shall be operated within the period from one-half
(1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise without having a
properly lighted headlight clearly visible from the front of the bicycle, nor without having a red light or a reflector clearly visible from the rear.
(6) Riding on Sidewalks. No person when riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall fail to yield the right of way to any pedestrian.
(7) Parking. No person shall stand or park a bicycle upon the street
other than in a bicycle rack or storage facility. It shall be unlawful to park a bicycle along sidewalks in such a manner as to interfere with pedestrians or along
roadways where they may interfere with traffic or with persons getting into or
out of motor vehicles.
(8) Right, Keep to. All bicycles when operated on roadways shall be
kept to the right and shall be operated as near as practical to the right-hand edge
of the street except when making left turns and when through traffic is not permitted in the right lane, provided that on one-way streets they may be operated
on the far left-hand edge of the street.
(9) Speed. No bicycle shall be operated at any time faster than is reasonable or proper, and every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the
safety of the rider and other persons and property.
(10) Brakes. Every bicycle shall be equipped with at least one effective
brake.
Section 31. Coverage of Vehicles and Bicycles.
(1) Definition. The provisions of this Ordinance, including the rules
and regulations issued thereunder, shall, unless otherwise specifically provided,
apply to all "motor vehicles," "vehicles," and "bicycles," as such terms are defined
in the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code (1981 AACS, 28.1101 et seq), as amended,
which are parked in or on, or which travel upon, University of Michigan parking
lots and structures, roads, driveways, or other grounds, including, but not limited
to, automobiles, motorcycles, motor driven cycles, mopeds, motorbikes, bicycles
and boats and trailers, and the words "motor vehicle(s)" and "vehicle(s)" used
herein shall be interchangeable for such purposes.


194




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(2) Registration or Licensing. All motor vehicles, vehicles and bicycles which are parked in or on, or which travel upon, University of Michigan
parking lots and structures, roads, driveways, or other grounds, shall be registered or licensed in accordance with the procedure required by the Ordinance
Code of the City of Ann Arbor or State law, with the exception that all bicycles
must be so registered or licensed regardless of the residence or age of the owners.
(3) Operation of Vehicles, Motorcycles on Diag. No person shall
drive any motor vehicles or vehicles, including motorcycles (other than
University-owned or authorized maintenance vehicles) in that part of campus
known as the Diag and located between State Street, East University Street,
South University Street and North University Street.
(4) Impoundment. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee may impound any bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, moped, or similar vehicle used by any person in violation of this Ordinance, any Traffic Control Order hereunder, or
applicable State law, or which is abandoned pursuant to the forty-eight hour test
of Section 27 of Article II or, with respect to bicycles, is left unattended for 48
hours; left in a manner as to obstruct unreasonably the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or is reasonably believed to be stolen. The impoundment shall
involve removal of such bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, moped or similar
vehicle to a University of Michigan provided place of safekeeping until the owner
thereof can be located and notified. If such bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, moped or similar vehicle is not claimed by and returned to the owner thereof
within a time period considered by the University of Michigan to be reasonable,
then it shall be disposed of in accordance with University of Michigan policy
and/or Section 2.5 or 2.5a of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code (1981 AACS,
R28.1105 and R28.1105a), as amended. The Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee may impose
a reasonable charge for the storage and handling of an impounded bicycle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, moped or similar vehicle while it is in the possession
of the University of Michigan.
(5) Necessary Measures. In carrying out the impoundment procedure
specified in subsection (4) of this Section, the University of Michigan may take
all necessary measures therefor, including cutting locking devices immobilizing
the vehicle or bicycle. The University of Michigan will not reimburse the owner
of the vehicle or bicycle for any expenses caused to the latter by taking such necessary measures, including replacing the locking device or otherwise.
(6) University of Michigan Motor Vehicles. Any person driving or
parking a University of Michigan owned motor vehicle must observe the provisions of the Ordinance.
ARTICLE m
LYITERING
Section 1.  Littering Prohibited. No person shall place, deposit throw, scatter or
leave any refuse, waste, garbage, or litter on the streets or grounds, or within any building or
structure of the University of Michigan, except that which is generated because of activities or
business relating to the University, which properly belongs on University property, and which is
deposited in receptacles provided for such purposes.
Section 2. Placing Commercial Handbills on Vehicles.
(1) Definition of Commercial Handbill. A commercial handbill is
any printed or written matter which advertises for sale any merchandise or
thing, or advertises any performance or event for which an admission fee is
charged, or directs attention to any business.
(2) Acts Prohibited. No person shall place, throw, or deposit any commercial handbill in or upon any vehicle parked upon the streets or grounds of the


195




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


University of Michigan, or parked within any structure of the University of
Michigan, without the express permission of the owner of such vehicle.
Section 3.    Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article III shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE IV
ARBORETUM
Section 1.   Area. In addition to the other provisions of this Ordinance, this Article IV
shall apply to "The Arboretum," which is defined as: All University-owned land in the City of
Ann Arbor lying east of Forest Hill Cemetery and the University of Michigan Hospital between
Geddes Avenue and the Huron River, sometimes commonly known as Nicholas Arboretum and
Dow Field.
Section 2. Driving and Parlking Vehicles. No person shall park or drive any motor
vehicle, (including motor driven cycles, mopeds and motorbikes) or bicycles (other than University- or City-owned maintenance vehicles or emergency vehicles) in the Arboretum.
Section 3.   Injury to Property. No person shall obstruct any walk or drive or damage
in any manner any monument, fence, bridge, seat, tree, shrub, flower, or other public property in
the Arboretum.
Section 4.   Alcohol. No person shall possess or consume any beverage containing alcohol in the Arboretum.
Section 5.   Rules and Regulations. Subject to the prior approval of The Regents, the
Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to make rules and regulations
prescribing use of the area by the general public and such other rules and regulations to implement this Article IV as may be deemed necessary for the preservation of University property and
the safety of the persons using it, which rules and regulations shall be enforceable in accordance
with the terms of this Ordinance after due notice thereof by the posting of such rules and regula~
tions in the manner prescribed in Section 6 of Article XIV of this Ordinance. Prior approval of
the Regents is not required where the Executive Vice President adopts temporary rules and regulations curtailing the hours the Arboretum is open to the general public or any others concerning
activities on the premises that the Executive Vice President considers necessary to eliminate apparent imminent threats to, or disturbances of, the quiet, safe, and lawful use of the property. If
the Executive Vice President finds it necessary to keep any such temporary rules and regulations
in continuous effect throughout the year, they should then be regarded as permanent ones subject to immediate approval by The Regents.
Section 6.   Hours. The Arboretum shall be closed to all persons between the hours of
10:00 P.M. and 6:00 AM., except as otherwise established by the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 4 of this Article IV.
Section 7.   Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article IV shall constitute a civil in~
fraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE V
ALCOHOL POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION
Section 1,   Athletic Arenas & Stadiums. No person shall possess or consume any
beverage containing alcohol in any arena or stadium where an athletic event or other event is
taking place unless pursuant to written permission of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee, which written permission
must be exhibited promptly to a requesting University representative.
Section 2.   University Grounds. No person shall consume any beverage containing
alcohol or possess an open container of any beverage containing alcohol in the area of University
land bounded by State Street, North University, East University and South University or in any
University parking lot or structure unless pursuant to the written permission of the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee,
which written permission must be exhibited promptly to a requesting University representative.


196




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 3.   Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article V shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE VI
CONDUCT AT ATHLETIC CONTESTS OR EXHIBITIONS
Section 1.   Obiects or Proectiles. No person shall throw, project or drop any projectile or object which could cause injury, damage or interference in the spectator or playing area
where any athletic contest or exhibition is being conducted at the University.
Section 2.   Unlawful Entry. No unauthorized person shall enter upon the playing
area of any athletic contest or exhibition being conducted at the University while the contest or
exhibition is in progress or for a reasonable time before and after the contest or exhibition.
Section 3.   Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article VI shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE VII
UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY
Section.    Entry. No person shall enter, or attempt to enter, into any Universit
dance, social, athletic, theatrical or other event without any required ticket of admission to such
event, or enter or attempt to enter contrary to any established rules or qualifications for eligibility for attendance at such event as provided by the sponsor. No person ineligible to attend such
event shall loiter or otherwise remain about the premises where such an event is being held without a valid or authorized reason for being in such location.
Section 2.   Violtio n Plenlty. A violation Pe  of this Article VII shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be puishable by a fine b of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE VI
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND ROLL R BLADES
Section 1.   Operation. No person shall operate a skateboard in University parking
lots, parking structures buildings or on any sidewalk or other property of the University. No
person shall operate rolfer skates or roller blades in University parking structures or buildings.
Section 2.   Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article VIII shall constitute a civil
infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) A police officer
apprehending a person for violating any provisions of this Article may also impound the skateboard, roller skates or roller blades. The skateboard, roller skates or roller blades will be returned only after payment of the fine and upon proper identification. In the case of a person who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older, the skateboard, roller skates or roller blades will be released
to the person providing proper identification. Persons under eighteen (18) years of age must appear with a parent, guardian or a letter from the parent or guardian residing in another county
or state that requests the release of the skateboard, roller skates or roller blades.
ARTICLE IX
SALES AND SOLICITATIONS
Section 1.   Buildings. Except as otherwise provided in the Bylaws of the Board of Regents, sales and solicitations of sales of items and solicitations of contributions in University
buildings may take place only with the prior written permission of the appropriate Dean, Director Department Head or Building Director, which written permission must be promptly exhibited to a requesting University representative. The appropriate Dean, Director, Department
Head or Building Director may either uniformly prohibit such sales and solicitations or uniformly regulate the time, place and manner of such in order to provide for the maintenance of
good order and the protection of University property.
Section 2.   University Grounds. Except as otherwise rovided in the Bylaws of the
Board of Regents sales and solicitations of sales of items and solicitations of contributions on
University grounds may take place only with the prior written permission of the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee, which


197




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


written permission must be promptly exhibited to a requesting University representative. The
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written
designee may either uniformly prohibit such sales and solicitations or uniformly regulate the
time, place and manner of such in order to provide for the maintenance of good order and the
protection of University property.
Section 3.  Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article IX shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE X
WEAPONS
Section 1.  Possession of Firearms and Knives. No person, while on University
property, may possess firearms, except as permitted by State law. No person, while on University property, shall wear on his person or carry in his clothing any knife, sword or machete having a blade longer than four (4) inches or, in the case of a knife with a mechanism to lock the
blade in place when open, longer than three (3) inches, except as follows:
(1) During the time when the person is engaged in work requiring such a
device.
(2) When the device is securely packaged for purposes of purchase or sale.
(3)  When the device is worn as part of a military or fraternal uniform in
connection with a public ceremony, parade or theatrical performance.
Section 2.  Discharge of a Weapon. No person shall discharge any weapon within
the boundaries of University property, except in connection with a regularly scheduled educational, recreational, or training program under adequate supervision, or in connection with the
performance of lawful duties of law enforcement, or for the protection of a person or property
when confronted with deadly force.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IDENTIFICATION CARDS
AND PARKING PERMITS
Section 1.  Possession or Display. No person shall possess or display any University
student staff or faculty identification card or University parking permit that is altered fraudulent or that has been issued to another person. University staff who handle University identification cards or parking permits as a requirement of their job are exempt from this section where
they are handling such identification cards or parking permits in the performance of their official
duties.
Section 2.  Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article XI shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE XI
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section 1.  Prohibitions. No person shall, while on University property or in University buildings or in University buses, passenger vans or other University vehicles, engage in the
following disorderly conduct:
(1) Urinate or defecate in any building or on any public street or sidewalk
or any place in view of the public not specifically designated for that purpose.
(2)  Summon, without any good reason, by telephone or otherwise, the police, security or fire department, any public or private ambulance, or any other
service of any kind to go to any address where the service called is not needed.


198




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(3) Repeatedly initiating a telephone call, and without speaking, deliberately hanging up or breaking the telephone connection after the telephone call is
answered.
(4) Initiate a telephone call, without any good reason, from a telephone
connected directly to the University Department of Public Safety, which is commonly known as an emergency phone.
(5) Fail to identify oneself accurately when requested to do so by a police
officer or Department of Public Safety security officer after the officer observes
the person commit a civil infraction, misdemeanor or felony, or when the officer
has probable cause to believe the person has committed a misdemeanor or felony
outside of the officer's presence.
(6) Set any fire upon University property or University buildings except
in approved stoves and grills or as otherwise permitted by University officials by
a prior writing.
(7)  Urinate, defecate, vomit, fight, or engage in any behavior in a University bus, passenger van or other vehicle, such as yelling, jumping or throwing objects, which interferes with the safe operation of the vehicle or the quiet
enjoyment of the other passengers in the vehicle, or commit any other act of disorderly conduct under this Article on a University bus, passenger van or other
vehicle.
Section 2.  Violation Penalties.  A violation of this Article XII Section.(1, 7) shall
constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00). A person who violates this Article XII Section 1.(2, 3, 4, 5, 6) is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction punishable by imprisonment for not less than ten (10) days and no
more than sixty (60) days, or by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or both.
ARTICLE XII
NOISE CONTROL/NON-VEHICULAR NOISE
Section 1.  Applicabilit. The provisions of this Article XIII apply to all sources of
sound except: 1) motor vehicles; 2) aircraft in flight or in operation at an airport; 3) railroad
equipment in operation on railroad rights of way.
Section 2.  Definitions. As used in this Article XIII:
(1) "dB(A)" means the intensity of a sound expressed in decibels read
from a calibrated sound level meter utilizing the A-level weighing scale and the
fast meter response, as specified in American National Standards Institute standards S 1.4-1971.
(2)  "Commercial" means a use of the property for purposes other than
residential.
(3)  "Property line" means the imaginary line which represents the legal
limits of property (including an apartment, condominium, room, or other dwelling unit) owned, leased, or otherwise occupied by a person, business, corporation
or institution. In cases involving sound from an activity on a public street or
other public right of way, the "property line" shall be the nearest boundary of the
public right-of-way.
(4)  "Residential" means a legal use of property for temporary or permanent dwelling purposes.
Section 3.   General Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist
in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing,
unusual or unnecessary noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others on University property.


199




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 4.  Specific Prohibitions. The following activities are prohibited if they produce clearly audible sound beyond the property line of the property on which they are conducted:
(1) The operation, between 10 P.M. and 7 A.M., of power tools or
equipment.
(2) The operation, between 10 P.M. and 7 A.M., of any device for killing,
trapping, attracting, or repelling insects or other pests.
(3)  The sounding, between 10 P.M. and 7 A.M., of any bell, chime, siren,
whistle or similar device, except:
(a)   To alert persons to the existence of an emergency, danger or attempted crime; or
(b)   As provided in section 6(5) of this Article.
(4) The operation or playing between 10 P.M. and 7 A.M., of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum or musical instrument.
(5) Construction, repair, remodeling, demolition, drilling or excavation
work at any time on Sunday and between 8 P.M. and 7 A.M. Monday - Saturday,
except as permitted by section 6(5) of this Article.
(6) The operation or use between 10 P.M. and 7 A.M. of any loudspeaker,
sound amplifier, public address system or similar device used to amplify sounds.
(7) The creation of a loud, unnecessary noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and closing or destruction of
bales, boxes, crates, or other containers.
(8) The use of any drums, loud-speakers, musical devices or other instruments or devices for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise
to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise. The prohibitions of
this section apply even if the sound level produced by a prohibited activity does
not exceed the applicable level specified in section 5 of this Article.
Section 5.  Mamum Permissible Sound Levels. No person shall conduct or permit
any activity that produces a dB(A) beyond his/her property line exceeding the levels specified in
Table I. Where property is used for both residential and commercial purposes, the residential
sound levels shall be used only for measurements made on the portion of the property used solely
for residential purposes.
TABLE I


USE OF PROPERTY            7 AM. TO               10 P.M. TO
RECEIVING THE SOUND        10 P.M.                7 ANM.
Residential 61  55
Commercial 71       61
[All limits expressed in dB(A)].


200




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Section 6.  Limited Exemptions. The following limited activities are exempted from
the sound level limitations of section 5:
(1)  Operation, between 7 A.M. and 10 P.M., of power equipment that does
not produce a sound level exceeding 90 dB(A) beyond the property line of the
property on which the equipment is operated.
(2)  Construction, repair, remodeling, demolition, drilling, wood cutting or
excavation work conducted between 7 A.M. and 8 P.M. Mondays through Saturdays, except legal holidays, which does not produce a sound level exceeding 105
dB(A) beyond the property line of the property on which the work is being conducted. Also, a person may engage in such activities at his/her residence between
9 A.M. and 6 P.M. on Sundays.
(3) Operation or use, for a noncommercial purpose, of any loud-speaker,
sound amplifier, public address system, or similar device to amplify spoken words
between 7 A.M. and 10 P.M. This exemption applies to the use or operation of
mechanical loud-speakers on or from motor vehicles only if a specific permit for
the activity has been granted by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee. The Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's
written designee shall cause such a permit to issue when it finds the following:
(a)   The applicant has a noncommercial message that cannot be
effectively communicated to the public by the other means of communication
available.
(b)   The applicant will limit the use of the loud-speakers to times, locations and sound levels which will not unreasonably disturb the public peace.
(c)   The applicant will not use the equipment in residential areas between 10 P.M. and 7 A.M.
(4)  The operation between 7 A.M. and 10 P.M. of any device for killing,
trapping, attracting, or repelling insects or other pests which does not produce a
sound level exceeding 83 dB(A) beyond the property line of the property on
which the device is operated.
(5) The use for noncommercial purposes or one or more bells or chimes
which does not exceed 90 seconds in duration in an hour.
(6)  Carillon playing between 7 A.M. and 10 P.M.
(7) Playing or practicing with a single musical instrument between 7
A.M. and 10 P.M. without electric amplification for not more than one hour a
day that does not produce a sound level in excess of 67 dB(A) beyond the property line of the property on which the instrument is used.
Section 7.  General Exemptions. The following activities are exempted from the
sound level limitations of Section 5:
(1)  Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a fire, accident or natural disaster, or to restore public utilities, or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger.
(2)  Sound made to alert persons to the existence of an emergency, danger,
or attempted crime.
(3) Activities or operations of University personnel in the course of their
prescribed duties or the activities or operations of other governmental units or
agencies.
(4) Parades, concerts, festivals, fairs or similar activities subject to any
sound limits in the approval by the University.


201




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


(5)  Athletic, musical, or cultural activities or events (including practices
and rehearsals) conducted by or under the auspices of the University.
Section 8.   Temporarys Exemptions
(1)  The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written designee is authorized to grant a temporary exemption from the maximum permissible sound levels established by this Article
if such temporary exemption would be in the public interest and there is no feasible and prudent alternative to the activity, or the method of conducting the activity, for which the temporary exemption is sought.
(2)  The following factors shall be considered in determining whether to
grant a temporary exemption:
(a)   The balance of the hardship to the applicant, the community and
other persons in not granting the variance against the adverse impact on the
health, safety and welfare of persons adversely affected and any other adverse
effects of the granting of the variance.
(b)   The nearness of any residence or residences, or any other use
which would be adversely affected by sound in excess of the limits prescribed
by this Article.
(c)   The level of the sound to be generated by the event or activity.
(d)   Whether the type of sound to be produced by the event or activity
is usual or unusual for the location or area for which the variance is requested.
(e)   The density of population of the area in which the event or activity is to take place.
(f)   The time of day or night which the activity or event will take
place.
(g)   The nature of the sound to be produced, including but not limited
to, whether the sound will be steady, intermittent, impulsive, or repetitive.
(3)  A temporary exemption must be in writing and signed by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's
written designee and must set forth the name of the party granted the exemption, the location of the property for which it is authorized, the date(s) and
time(s) for which it is effective and the dB(A) level(s) authorized. The written exemption must be promptly exhibited to a requesting University representative.
(4)  A temporary exemption may be granted only for the period of time
that is reasonably necessary to conduct the activity, which in no case may exceed
30 days.
Section 9.   Liability of owner, lessee or occupant. If the person responsible for an
activity which violates this Article cannot be determined, the owner, lessee or occupant of the
property on which the activity is located shall be deemed responsible for the violation.
Section 10. Violation Penalty. A violation  of this Article XIII shall constitute a civil
infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE XIV
ANIMALS
Section 1.   Prohibitions. No person owning or having under his or her control any
animal shall permit such animal to be brought upon University property unless a leash is suitably attached to the animal and the leash is held by the person responsible without the prior written permission of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice
President's written designee, which written permission must be promptly exhibited to a


202




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


requesting University representative. No person shall bring any animal into a University building, bus, passenger van, or other University vehicle without the prior written permission of the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Vice President's written
designee, which written permission must be promptly exhibited to a requesting University representative. Exceptions to the above provisions shall include:
(1) Animals used by blind, hearing impaired and/or handicapped persons
for seeing-eye, hearing or other handicapped assistance purposes.
(2) Animals brought to the University for University sponsored research.
Section 2.  Violation Penalty. A violation of this Article XIV shall constitute a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
ARTICLE XV
PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT
Section 1.  Penalties for Violations of Ordinance.
(1) Civil Infractions and Misdemeanors. Any person who shall violate any section or provision of this Ordinance, including rules and regulations
issued thereunder, shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction, except where such
violation is specifically made a misdemeanor by a specific provision of this Ordinance or by State law.
(2) Fines and Imprisonment. Any person who commits a civil infraction under this Ordinance shall be punished by the fine provided below or in
other provisions of this Ordinance, or, if there is no such provision, by a $25.00
fine. The following fines shall be imposed for the following violations:
These rates will be in effect January 1, 1995 to January 1, 1997


IN PERSON
WITHIN


AFTER
WITHIN    14


VIOLATION


1 HOUR  14 DAYS DAYS


EXPIRED METER
PARKED OVER 48 hr LEGAL LIMIT
NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER
NO PARKING ANY TIME
NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS
NO STOPPING OR STANDING
LOADING ZONE
BUS STOP
DOUBLE PARKING
WITHIN 15 FT. OF FIRE HYDRANT
PARKED ON WALK
LEFT TO CURB
BLOCKING DRIVEWAY
BLOCKING CROSSWALKS
BLOCKING TRAFFIC


5.00


7.00  15.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00
17.00  25.00


DEFAULT*
21 DAYS
25.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00


203




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


IN PERSON
VIOLATION                  1 HOUR


HANDICAPPED
OVER 12 INCHES FROM CURB
OTHER
NO PERMITS U OF M LOTS
MOTOR CYCLES ONLY
PARKED UPON OR ACROSS LINE
NO PARKING FIRELANE
U OF M VEHICLES ONLY
NO PARKING IN DRIVEWAY


AFTER
WITHIN      14
14 DAYS   DAYS
100.00  100.00
17.00   25.00
17.00   25.00
17.00   25.00
17.00   25.00
17.00   25.00
25.00   25.00
17.00   25.00
17.00   25.00


DEFAULT*
21 DAYS


100.00


30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00


*Includes fine and costs for default judgement.


Beginning January 1, 1997, the following rates will be in effect
IN
PERSON WITHIN 
WITHIN     14




VIOLATION
EXPIRED METER
PARKED OVER 48 hr. LEGAL LIMIT
NO PARKING HERE TO CORNER
NO PARKING ANY TIME
NO PARKING BETWEEN SIGNS
NO STOPPING OR STANDING
LOADING ZONE
BUS STOP
DOUBLE PARKING
WITHIN 15 FT. OF FIRE HYDRANT
PARKED ON WALK
LEFT TO CURB
BLOCKING DRIVEWAY
BLOCKING CROSSWALKS
BLOCKING TRAFFIC
HANDICAPPED
OVER 12 INCHES FROM CURB
OTHER


I HOUR        DAYS
6.00       10.00


20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
20.00
100.00
20.00
20.00




AFTER
14
DAYS
15.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
25.00


DEFAULT*
21 DAYS
25.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
30.00
100.00
30.00
30.00


204




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


IN               AFTER
PERSON    WITHIN   14 DAYS DEFAULT*
WITHIN    14 DAYS             21 DAYS
VIOLATION                                1 HOUR
NO PERMITS U OF M LOTS                                20.00    25.00       30.00
MOTOR CYCLES ONLY                                     20.00     25.00      30.00
PARKED UPON OR ACROSS LINE                            20.00    25.00       30.00
NO PARKING FIRELANE                                   25.00    25.00       30.00
U OF M VEHICLES ONLY                                  20.00    25.00       30.00
NO PARKING IN DRIVEWAY                                20.00    25.00       30.00
*Includes fine and costs for default judgement.
Any person who commits a misdemeanor under this Ordinance shall be punished by the
fine and or imprisonment provided in the provisions of this Ordinance, or, if there is no such provision, by the fine and/or imprisonment established by State law.
(3) Violations Procedure. Admissions of responsibility in cases of civil
infraction parking violations of this Ordinance, including rules and regulations
issued thereunder, shall be processed exclusively through a University Parking
Violations Bureau operating pursuant to rules and regulations approved by the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with resulting fines and
costs to be retained by the University. All other alleged violations of this Ordinance, including rules and regulations issued thereunder, shall be processed in
the court system as provided by law for similar alleged violations occurring in
the City of Ann Arbor and Washtenaw County.
(4) Miscellaneous. Each act of violation, and every day during which
any such violation shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense. The penalties
provided by this Ordinance, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall
apply to the amendment of any section or provision of this Ordinance, whether
or not such penalties are re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
Section 2.  Enforcement
(1) Within City of Ann Arbor. Within the territorial limits of the City
of Ann Arbor, the enforcement of this Ordinance, pursuant to Section 1 of Public
Act 291 of 1967 (Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated, Section 390.891), as
amended, shall be by law enforcement officers of the City of Ann Arbor, of
Washtenaw County, Michigan, and/or of the Michigan State Police, as well as the
Department of Public Safety of The Regents of The University of Michigan; such
law enforcement officers, pursuant to Section 1 of Public Act 80 of 1905 as
amended (Michigan Compiled Law Annotated, Section 19.141), are hereby appointed and empowered to enforce this Ordinance as set forth in Section 3 of
Public Act 80 of 1905 as amended (Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated, Section
19.143). Enforcement by law enforcement officers, other than those in the Department of Public Safety of The Regents of The University of Michigan, shall
occur pursuant to agreement between the University of Michigan and the employer of the particular law enforcement officers.
(2) Outside the City of Ann Arbor. Outside the territorial limits of
the City of Ann Arbor, but within the County of Washtenaw, Michigan, the enforcement of this Ordinance, pursuant to Section 1 of Public Act 291 of 1967
(Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated, Section 390.891), as amended, shall be by
law enforcement officers of Washtenaw County, Michigan and/or of the Michigan
State Police and of the Department of Public Safety of The Regents of The University of Michigan; such law enforcement officers pursuant to Section 1 of


205




December Meeting, 1994 - Appendix


Public Act 80 of 1905 as amended (Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated, Section
19.141), are hereby appointed and empowered to enforce this Ordinance as set
forth in Section 3 of Public Act 80 of 1905 as amended (Michigan Compiled Law
Annotated, Section 19.143). Enforcement by law enforcement officers, other
than those in the Department of Public Safety of The Regents of The University
of Michigan, shall occur pursuant to agreement between the University of Michigan and the public employer of the particular law enforcement officers.
Section 3.   Other Applicable Laws. Nothing contained in this Ordinance is intended to limit the power of any governmental unit or law enforcement agency to enforce on
University of Michigan property any laws, ordinances, or regulations which otherwise would be
enforceable on such property.
Section 4.   Rules and Regulations. The various articles and sections of this Ordinance shall also be deemed to be rules and regulations of The Regents of The University of
Michigan, within the meaning of Public Act 80 of 1905 as amended.
Section 5   Separability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions.
Section 6.   Posting. A certified copy of this Ordinance, and any amendments thereto
shall be kept for inspection in the office of the Secretary of the University and shall be posted in
at least three conspicuous places on The University of Michigan campus, and at least one copy
shall be delivered to the Chief of Police of the City of Ann Arbor, one copy to the Sheriff of
Washtenaw County, one copy to each of the District Court Judges of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Judicial District Courts, and one copy each shall be delivered for filing at the office of the
City Clerk at the City of Ann Arbor and the County Clerk for the County of Washtenaw.
Section 7.   North Campus Signs. When posted at each street entrance to the North
Campus, signs setting forth the speed limit and the prohibition against parking in other than
designated parking areas shall be deemed adequate notice that such speed limits and such prohibition are applicable throughout the North Campus area. (A map of said North Campus area is
attached hereto and by reference incorporated herein.)
Section 8.  Effective Date. This Ordinance, as amended, shall take effect immediately.
It shall repeal all prior versions of it. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to affect any legal proceeding in process which arose by virtue of any prior version of the Ordinance repealed
hereby.


206




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 16, 1995
The Regents met at 10:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Homing, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and
Power. Interim Secretary Jensen was also present, as were Provost Whitaker and
Vice President Harrison. Regents Deitch and Varner, Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal, and Chancellors Nelms
and Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called on Regent McGowan, who made the following
motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(f) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on February 16, 1995, in the Regents' Room, for the
purposes of reviewing the specific contents of applications for
employment for which the candidates have requested confidentiality
[Sec. 8(f)]; and considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act [Sec. 8(h)].
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Public Meeting
The Regents met at 1:35 p.m. in the Regents Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Homing, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and
Power. Interim Secretary Jensen was also present, as were Provost Whitaker and
Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal, and Chancellors Nelms
and Renick. Regents Deitch and Varner and Executive Vice President Womack
were absent. Associate Vice President Chandler Matthews attended in place of
Executive Vice President Womack.
President Duderstadt welcomed Regents Andrea Fischer Newman and
Daniel D. Homing to their first Regents' Meeting. He observed that the
Regents' Meetings were being restructured so that the Thursday afternoon
sessions would focus on a discussion of key strategic issues facing the University
and the Friday morning sessions would be reserved for the regular business
meeting. At the beginning of the Thursday afternoon sessions, the president,
provost, and chief financial officer would make brief reports on the state of the
University to set the tone for subsequent discussions.


207




February Meeting, 1995


President's Report to the Board
President Duderstadt stated that "today, the University of Michigan is
better, stronger, more diverse, and more exciting than at any time in recent
history." He then proceeded to substantiate those comments with data about the
University's top rankings in various measures of academic excellence, its fmaancial health, the diversity of its students, faculty and staff, and the rebuilding of
the physical plant. The president then reviewed the major challenges facing the
University, focusing on those posed by changing priorities at the federal level,
decreasing levels of state support, and assaults on university autonomy. He
concluded by noting some of the specific "challenges of the moment" which the
Regents will have to think through and deal with in the months to come.
Provost's Report to the Board
Student Academic Services. Provost Whitaker began with a review of
major improvements in student academic services that have been introduced by
Laura Patterson, the university registrar, as well as efforts that are underway to
further enhance student services.  He commended the registrar, who was
present, for the leadership she has exhibited in improving the registration
process, making it easier for students to access their own academic records and
other computerized information, and generally streamlining a variety of
procedures.
Governor's Budget Proposal. Provost Whitaker reported that the governor had proposed an across-the-board increase of 3 percent for all universities,
but had targeted three institutions to receive additional funding. The three institutions had been targeted according to their "Carnegie classification," rather than
according to their mission, programmatic offerings, student body, etc., which are
the factors upon which the University of Michigan believes funding should be
based. Under the Carnegie classification groupings, Michigan State had been
targeted to receive $300 more per student in additional funding, Western Michigan University would receive $200 more per student, and Grand Valley State
University would receive $100 more per student than the other state universities.
Provost Whitaker displayed charts illustrating a 20-year history of state
appropriations to the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor, Michigan State
University, and Wayne State University. If the governor's recommendation were
to be approved, Michigan State and Wayne State would both receive more money
per fiscal year equated student than UM-Ann Arbor, in addition to the higher
percentage increase that Michigan State would receive. This is in contrast to
what has been the pattern in the past.
President Duderstadt commented that enrollment at the UM Ann Arbor
campus is now larger than that of Michigan State. For the past 20 years, when
enrollment at MSU was higher than the UM enrollment, the appropriation per
student at the Ann Arbor campus was higher, and the opposite was the case
when UM enrollment was higher. But the method of calculating the appropriations was consistent and both institutions cooperated in their dealings with the
legislature. The current proposal, which would increase the ULM's appropriation


208




February Meeting, 1995


by $8 million and MSU's by $18 million, would break the long-standing equilibrium by introducing competition among public higher education institutions and
would raise a significant public policy issue.
A discussion followed, during which the Regents and president and provost
commented on various aspects of the governor's proposal.
Value Centered Management. Provost Whitaker gave a presentation on
value centered management, which is a method of internal budget allocation that
the University is going to use to replace the current method, which is based on
incremental budgeting. Under the new method, there are two funds, one fund
consisting of revenue generated by the unit, and the other being revenue
allocated to the unit from the unrestricted fnmds of the institution.
Provost Whitaker displayed diagrams illustrating the old and new budgeting
methods. He observed that the proposal had been widely disseminated and
discussed at the University, and two major concerns had been expressed. One is
that a unit might do low quality activities just for the purpose of generating a lot
of revenue; the other is that this system might discourage the pursuit of interdisciplinary activity. Provost Whitaker described how these situations might be
addressed, noting that in other universities that have adopted this system, these
problems have not arisen.
An implementation plan has been devised and is underway. Provost
Whitaker concluded by noting that this system gives the University a way to
manage change in a way not possible with the current system. Discussion then
ensued among the Regents. Regent Power requested that the provost report
back to the Regents about the two potential problem areas of interdisciplinary
activity and low quality activities. He also urged that units be given some type of
incentive for taking extra effort and for perhaps offering programs that don't
necessarily lead to a degree.
Following further discussion, there was a five minute break at 3:15 p.m.
Corporation for Public Broadcasting
The meeting reconvened at 3:20 p.m. Vice President Harrison introduced
Mr. Jim Gaver, station manager/director of programming for WFUM-TV; Ms.
Diane Parker, business manager for WFUM-TV; Mr. Joel Seguine, manager of
WUOM; and Mr. Lewis Morrissey, director of special projects in the Office of the
Vice President for University Relations. These individuals gave a presentation
on the history of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), as well as how
the program operates both on a national basis and with respect to the University
of Michigan's public television and radio stations. They also described how the
stations would be impacted if federal support for CPB were to be eliminated, in
view of the fact that WFUM-TV currently receives 23 percent of its budget from
CPB and Michigan Radio (WUOM/WFIUM/ WVGR) receives 15 percent of its operating budget from CPB. There followed a discussion about the University's
public television and public radio stations.


209




February Meeting, 1995


Public Comments
At 4:00 p.m., the Regents met in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union
and heard comments from the following people on the topics indicated: Craig
Greenberg, Ryan Fringer, and Kristen Nimelli, students, in support of a
proposed fee increase to fund renovation of the Health Services building; Donma
Burnside, student, on the high cost of tuition; Aaron Williams, citizen, on the
issues of a student regent and the Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities; Anne M. Ellison and Pamela Short, students, on the Statement
of Student Rights and Responsibilities; Leslie Baxter, Ifeoma Okwumabua, David
M. Garcia, and Kiarma Cheatom, students, in support of a proposed fee increase
to fund renovation of the Michigan Union; Brian Elliott, student, on student
representation on the Board of Regents; and Vincent Keene, student, on freedom
of speech issues surrounding the Jake Baker case.
Following Public Comments, the meeting recessed until the next day.
Friday, February 17, 1995
The Regents met at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Homing, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Interim Secretary Jensen was also present, as
were Provost Whitaker, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal,
and Chancellors Nelms and Renick. Executive Vice President Womack was
absent; Associate Vice President Chandler Matthews attended in his stead.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Power, who made the following statement:
Statement by Regent Power
Regent Power read from a prepared statement, a copy of which is on file in
the office of the secretary of the university. He pointed out that the composition
of the Board has changed, with five new members in the past six years, and
noted that the Board has been considering a number of possible changes in the
way in which it operates.
The organization and sequencing of the meetings has already been changed
so that at the Thursday afternoon session, the Board now receives regular reports from the president, provost, CFO, and other executive officers on broad
subjects of concern to the University of Michigan community, which allows discussion by the Board prior to policy-making and voting.
The Regents are also considering changes in the format of Public Comments
and changes in the structure of the Board itself. He stated that for the time
being, the Regents will not elect a chair and pointed out that the term "senior Regent" appears in the Bylaws only with reference to that person's responsibility
for presiding over meetings when the president is absent. He also noted that the
only authority vested in the Regents is when they act as a Board, as opposed to
individually and announced that the Board is considering adopting a structure of
governance committees.


210




February Meeting, 1995


President Duderstadt commented that he and the other executive officers
appreciate the work that the Board has done in rethinking how it can provide the
strong leadership needed by the University, and that the officers are committed
to helping the Board in any way they can in working through these issues and
putting in place the new structures.
1995-96 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Hartford reported that the student-staff rate committees had
met and had unanimously approved a recommendation for an average increase
of 5.1 percent for residence halls and 5.6 percent for family housing apartments,
and she described how the increases would be allocated. Regent Varner moved
approval of an average rate increase of 5.1 percent for residence halls and 5.6
percent for apartments, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
McFee seconded the motion.
Vice President Hartford pointed out that part of the increase would be used
to improve the technology available in residence halls, which is very important to
the living-learning communities philosophy. Following some discussion about
residence hall occupancy rates, the proportions of different room types available
to students, and other issues related to residence halls, the vote was taken and
the motion to approve the recommended rate increases for residence halls and
family apartments was approved unanimously.
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM         and WFUM-TV Audited Financial Reports
for Fiscal Year ended June 30, 1994 and Statements of Support, Revenue and Expenditures (Operating Fund) for Years Ended June 30, 1994
and 1993
Vice President Harrison pointed out that the television station's financial
report is favorable, but the radio station's is not. He noted that the radio station
has entered into a strategic planning process and restructuring. As of the
summer, it will have reduced its full-time staff size by 10 percent, and further
reductions are planned. Everything about the radio stations is being reviewed,
and a more complete report would be forthcoming as the year progresses.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the audited financial reports for WUOM/
WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994.
Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute
President Duderstadt announced that Mr. Joel D. Tauber had made a
financial commitment of $5 million to fund the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing
Institute, to be jointly administered by the School of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering. Provost Whitaker described the purpose of the
institute. Regent Deitch moved approval of the establishment of the Joel D.
Tauber Manufacturing Institute, commenting on the leadership Mr. Tauber has
shown and the contributions he has made throughout his career. Regent
Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


211




February Meeting, 1995


Minutes
Secretary Jensen       submitted the minutes of the December 1994 meeting.
(There was no Regents' Meeting in January 1995).
Consent Agenda
Reports. Associate Vice President Matthews submitted reports on investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations and a quarterly
report on non-competitive purchases greater than $2,000 for the period October 1
through December 31, 1994. Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects
established for the months of December 1994 and January 1995 and summaries
of selected research projects.
Voluntary      Support.       Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of gifts
received for the months of December 1994 and January 1995.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, the Unit Dose
Drug SystemProject in the College of Pharmacy, and for employee matching gift...................40,160
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for the Keith E. and Valerie J. Alessi Fund in the School of Business Administration..........10,000
Aluminum Company of America Headquarters Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................................  25,000
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Institute of Science and Technology............................................... 130,455
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research   in   th e  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 19,500
Ameritech Michigan, Detroit
for   em p loy ee   m atch in g   gifts................................................................................................................................................... 13,94 7
Herbert S. Amster, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, the Museum of Art, and WUOM/WVG.......................................5,160
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Lupus Research Fund in the Medical School...........10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the  College  of Literature, Science, and  the Arts....................................................................5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy
Studies and for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......................25,000
Kriss Arbury, Midland
154 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Varsity  Tennis Complex  in  the Department of Athletics................................................................ 9,702
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for the Civil Engineering Alumni Friends Association Fellowship and other support
in   th e   C ollege   of  E n gin eerin g........................................................................................................................................0...........6,000
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning  in   m em ory  of  Charles  W. Attw ood............................................................................................................... 6,000
Rishpal S. Aujla, Pasadena, Maryland
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................9,000
Leslie R. Bassett, Ann Arbor
for the  Ross Lee Finney  Fellowship  in  the  School of M usic...........................................................................6,400
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, DC
for  supp ort  of  th e   L aw   S ch ool.................................................................................................................................. 5,000
Benedek Family Trust
for the Program in Film and Video Studies and the London School of Economics
Student Fund  in  the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................................5,000
Mandell L. Berman, Franklin'
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration...... 7,000


212




February Meeting, 1995


Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
128 shares of General Electric common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Medical School and for the Trudy Huebner Dance Scholarship
in   th e   S ch oo l  o f  M u sic................................................................................................................................................6 30 8
Bruce P. Bickner, Dekalb, Illinois
for the Bruce P. Bickner Endowed Scholarship in the Law School.........................................................40,000
Parley Bingham Trust
for the Parley C. Bingham        Fund in the Medical School in memory of Harry F.
an d   N ellie   B.  B in gh am...........................................................................................................................................................  1 70,1 19
Joan A. Binkow, Ann Arbor
for philosophy and humanities support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for support in the Horace H. Rackham              School of Graduate Studies........................5,000
Helen C. Birdsall, Ypsilanti
for  support  in  the  College  of  Engineering.................................................................................................................. 10,000
Bixby Foundation, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................7,500
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.........................5,000
Peter F. Borish, New York, New York
for support in the Institute of Public Policy Studies..........................................................10,000
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................15,000
Conrad A. Bradshaw Trust
for   su pp ort  of  th e   L aw   S ch ool...................................................................................................................................................5,0 00
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the Brandt Fund for Judaica in the College of Literature, Science, and the
A rts  and   for  support  of  the   L aw   School............................................................................................................................7,750
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................8,500
H. Sanborn Brown, Grosse Pointe Farms
800 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Virginia R. and H. Sanborn Brown Prize Fund in Architecture in the
College  of A rchitecture    and  U rban    Planning............................................................................................................24,431
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..........................................................................25,000
Bugas Fund, Dearborn
for research in the Medical School in memory of Kent H. Shepherd, Sr...........................................10,000
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program        in the School of Business Administration...................................................8,000
Calypte Biomedical Company, Berkeley, California
for   research   in   the   School  of  D entistry..........................................................................................................................16,000
Paul B. Campbell, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Law.................................................................5,000
Jean W. Campbell Trust
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women............................................................................5,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  School  of  E ducation.........................................................................................................................50,000
Mrs. Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................25,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the Chelsea Milling Company Scholarship in the School of Nursing and for the
Ann Arbor Flower Show, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................21,000
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan
for  research    in   the  Institute  for  Social  Research......................................................................................................7,000
Citizens Insurance Company of America, Howell
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................20,000
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for Civitas Scholarships in the School of Social Work....................................................................................... 68,750
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.......................................................8,000


213




February Meeting, 1995


David S. Clyde, Ann Arbor
1,924 shares of Med-Stat Group common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for research in the Medical
School, and for the University Musical Society.....................................................................................................12,904
Marlin Cole and Connie Belin Charitable Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the Humanities Institute Challenge Grant Fund in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts....................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
52 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Ralph F. and Elsie Colton Leadership Scholarship......................................................... 1,070,550
Cooper Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics..............................................................11,000
Alice Berle Crawford, Ann Arbor
for  support   in   the   M u seum   of  A rt......................................................................................................................................5,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration.........................................................................................5,000
Gladys E. Davis Trust
for the Gladys E. Davis Kellogg Eye Center Endowment in the Medical School............................7,724
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics............................................  8,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for the Delta Dental Fund in the School of Dentistry...............75.........7,523
Detroit and Canada Tunnel Corporation, Detroit
for  th e   U niversity   M u sical  S ociety........................................................................................................................................5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for   em ployee    m atch in g   gifts......................................................................................................................................................9,968
Daryl M. Dickson, Chicago, Illinois
for the Daryl M. Dickson Grant Programs for student aid..............................................................................5,000
Thomas A. Dieterich, Tenafly, New Jersey
for  su pp ort  of  th e   L aw   School................................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,   an d   th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for the Ray A. Kroc and Robert L. Kroc Lecture in Rheumatology in the Medical
School   and   for  em ployee    m atching    gifts.................................................................................................................... 10,338
James J. and Anne M. Duderstadt, Ann Arbor
for the James and Anne Duderstadt Endowment Fund................................................................................. 15,000
N. Reed Dunnick, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for WUOM/WVGR.............................................5...............................5,092
David G. Dvorak, Kalamazoo
for the Ophthalmic Research Endowment in the Medical School......................................................... 10,000
Dale L. Dykema, Newport Beach, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................................................................... 200,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for  su pport  of  th e   L aw   S ch ool.......................................................................................................................................... 100,000
Robert C. Emde, Bloomfield Hills
112 shares of Home Depot common stock
for the Ernst & Young Professorship of Accounting II in the School of
B u sin ess   A d m in istration...............................................................................................................................................................5,2 0 1
LeRoy A. Engelhardt, Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin
200 shares of Consolidated Papers, Inc., common stock
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship and other support in the
School of Business Administration and for the University Library.................................................... 10,863
Engineering Foundation, United Engineering Trustees, Inc., New York, New York
for  research     in   the  College  of  E ngineering.................................................................................................................. 11,500
Thomas C. Evans, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, the University of Michigan Hospitals, the
Museum      of Art, and the University Musical Society and for WUOM/WVGR....................................5,000
FPL Group Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for    em p loyee   m atch in g   gifts................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................8,800


214




February Meeting, 1995


Ferndale Laboratories, Inc., Ferndale
for the William       B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School......................................................................25,000
Louise S. Finlayson, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of
B u sin ess  A dm   in istration....000........................................................................................................................................................ 10,000
Max M. Fisher, Franklin
for support in the University of Michigan Hospitals...........................................................................................25,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for  su pp  ort  of  the   L aw   S chool.................................................................................................................................................6,00 0
W. R. Flannery, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............................................ 25,000
Benson Ford, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan  -D earb  orn.................................................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan  -D earb  orn............................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich ig an -D ear b or n.........................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Engineering and for the University Musical Society...........................................................................................62,373
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Schools Natural Resources and the Environment and
Business Administration, the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and other support at
the   U niversity      of M ichigan-D    earborn.......................................................................................................................1,100,000
Richard E. Forrestel, Akron, New York
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering....................................................25,000
Bruce Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
for endowment support in the School of Business Administration.........................................................20,000
GHS Corporation, Battle Creek
for the Shirley and Robert McFee Guitar Fund and other support in the School
of Music and for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law,
and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 12,500
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for    em p loyee    m atch in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,355
Charles Gelman, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Gelman Sciences, Inc., common stock
for  research      in   the  School of  Public   H  ealth...................................................................................................................6,813
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the General Dynamics Fellowship in the College of Engineering....................................................50,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for  support    in   the  College   of  E ngineering....................................................................................................................40,200
Nettie R. Gillette Trust, Wheaton, Illinois
for the Kristoffer M. Gillette Memorial Fund in the School of Art............................................................5,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for  su pp ort  of  th e  L aw   S ch ool................................................................................................................................................. o5,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for the A. James French Endowed Professorship in the Medical School...............................................5,000
Thomas A. Goss, Oakland, California
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................5,000
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for  the  Cancer     C enter   in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................5,000
Robert S. Greenberger, West Bloomfield
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry.......................................................................5,000
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................40,000
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William       and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law                 School...........................................................10,000


215




February Meeting, 1995


John A. Harris, Chevy Chase, Maryland
400 shares of Robert Half International common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics..............................................................10,025
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School..........................................................5,000
William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York
for   research    in   the   M edical School................................................................................................................................ 50,000
Helene Curtis, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the  C ollege  of  Pharm acy.......................................................................................................................25,000
General James K. Herbert Foundation, Lindsay, California
for support in the Kelsey Museum           of Archaeology, College of Literature,
S cience,  an d   the   A rts......................................................................................................................................8 333
Linda J. Herrick, Tecumseh
for support in the Kelsey Museum           of Archaeology, College of Literature,
S cien ce,  a n d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................7,0 0 0
Jack D. Highfield, Grand Rapids
for  the   M artin   Luther  K ing   Scholarship........................................................................................................................5,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the thoracic surgery fellowships in the Medical School................................................... 10,000
Jewel F. Hunter, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
International Paper, Charlotte, North Carolina
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering.........................................7,500
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry...................................... 10,000
John M. Jenks, Leawood, Kansas
250 shares of Fidelity Magellan Mutual Fund
for the John M. Jenks Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 16,398
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School.....................................................................5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 22,659
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Visiting Professorship and other support in the College of
L iterature,  Science,   and    the  A rts....................................................................................................................................... 27,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the Benny Friedman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................................................... 7,500
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies and for research in the Historical Center for the Health Sciences..........137,218
Oscar W. Kloha Estate
for student aid in the Medical School37230for student aid in the Medical School............................................................................................................................. 37230
Knights of Vartan Grand Lodge, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
for the Armenian Studies Program, the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................... 10,000
Koepfgen Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School and for student aid in the School
of   B u sin ess   A dm in istration.....................................................................................................................................................  51 00 0
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
for the DeWeese Student Education Fund in the Medical School..............................................................5,000
David T. Krom, Northville
for  the  Jason    K rom   M em orial Scholarship..........................................................5........................................................5,000
Edwin A. and Alma Lakin Philanthropic Fund, Reading, Pennsylvania
for the Edwin and Alma Lakin Orthopedic Research Fund in the Medical School.................... 50,000
John W. Lawrence, Richland
for the Teaching Excellence Fund in the School of Business Administration................................5,000
Lena Y. Lee, Lincoln, Massachusetts
for  support   in   the   School  of  A rt........................................................................................................................................ 15,000
Morton Q. Levin, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Law Class of 1966 Fund in the Law School and for the Sumner and Laura
Foster Library Acquisitions Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............7,000
Lillian Levy, Bloomfield Hills
for the Norman Levy Research Fund in the Medical School..................................................................... 10,000


216




February Meeting, 1995


Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for  research      in   th e   M edical   School....................................................................................................................................... 8,750
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................................................................................. 24,254
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the Medical School.......................24,000
Dorothy S. Lundahl Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.......................................................................................7,500
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering...............................................................100,000
Mandel-Beyer-Weinberg Family Philanthropic Fund, Moreland Hills, Ohio
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 20,312
Joyce Marcus, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................5000
Mark IV Industries Foundation, Inc., Amherst, New York
for support in the College of Engineering...................................................................................................................20,000
Betty Jo Mayer, Rancho Palos Verdes, California
for research in the School of Public Health in memory of Adrian Mayer.........................................10,000
James A. McDivitt, Potomac, Maryland
for the James A. and Judith McDivitt Scholarship in the College of Engineering......................10,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for   su pp ort  of  th e   L aw   S ch ool..................................................................................................................................................8,0 00
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music......................................................10,000
David C. McWilliams, Lakeland
for support in the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management....................................5,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Fred Meijer Fellowship in Creative Writing, College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts..........................................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 0 0
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Fellows in Pharmaceutics Fund in the College of Pharmacy and
for   em p loyee     m atch in g   gifts....................................................................................................................................................60,1 15
Helen L. Metzner, Ann Arbor
100 shares of CPC International, Inc., common stock
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women..............................................................................5,281
Michigan Club Managers Association of America, Saginaw
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund...................................................................................................16,096
Michigan Theater Foundation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 0,3 7 3
Michigan Trenching Service, Inc., Ypsilanti
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Midwest Eye-Banks and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School.................................................................20,000
Monroe Auto Equipment Company, Monroe
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering.................................................................................. 10,000
Michael J. Moore, Durham, North Carolina
for the Michael J. Moore Dissertation Fellowship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an  d   th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................1 9,0 0 0
Jack Moore Trust
for the Jack and Marjorie W. Moore Scholarship in the Medical School............................................ 55,072
John D. Moss, Peekskill, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...........................................................................20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e    A r ts....................................................................................................................................................................................................6 0,4 9 9
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for  em  ployee    m  atching    gifts                                                                                         7  046..................................................................................................................................................... 7,046


217




February Meeting, 1995


NYX, Inc., Livonia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................    8,000
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School..................................................50,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research    in   the  M edical School............................................................................................................ 7,590
Robert D. Neary, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................... 115,000
Henry H. Newlin, Tecumseh
for the Henry and Nancy Newlin Women's Basketball Scholarship in the
D epartm   en t  of  A th letics........................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Isadore Lampe Chair in the Medical School............................................................................................25,000
Nokomis Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the Center for the Education of Women....................................................... 15,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
for  support   of  the   L aw   School..............................................................................................................................................5,000
Richard W. Odgers, San Francisco, California
for support in the Schools of Art and Law            and in the Institute of Public Policy Studies..... 10,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for support of the Law       School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 6,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for  the  Cancer   C enter  in  the  M edical School............................................................................................................87,289
James A. Parsons, New Canaan, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration...................................................................................... 24,000
Joseph N. Payne, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Prime Hospitality Corporation common stock and
141 shares of 20th Century Ultra Investors Mutual Fund
for the Phillip S. Jones Scholarship in Mathematics Education and the
Jones-Payne Award in the School of Education.................................................................................................... 10,050
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
for  su pport  of  th e   L aw   S chool...............................................................................................................................................  5,000
Irene H. Perrine Estate
for the Beahl T. Perrine Endowment in the Law School.............................................................................300,000
Pharmacia, Dublin, Ohio
for  the  Cancer   Center   in  the  M edical School............................................................................................................. 50,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 7,500
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Plough Pharmacy Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy........................................................45,000
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
100 shares of Norfolk Southern common stock
for the William     Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business
Administration and for scholarships, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................12,100
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................30,000
Process Equipment Company, Tipp City, Ohio
for  support   in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering.......................................................................................................................8,850
John A. Pursley, Belleview, Florida
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
th e   C ollege   of  E n gin eerin g....................................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Benjamin M. Quigg, Jr., Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
285 shares of Pepisco, Inc., common stock
for  support   of  th e  L aw   S ch ool............................................................................................................................................ 10,135
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 8,500
Ahmad Rahbar, Wheeling, West Virginia
for    su pport   in   th e   M edical  S ch ool..........................................................................................................................................5,000
Leonard Rand, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................7,500


218




February Meeting, 1995


William    C. Rands III, Grosse Pointe
200 shares of Med-Stat Group common stock
for  P rism atic    C lub   renovations...............................................................................................................................................5,366
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the R & B Machine Tool Company Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................30,000
Rhone-Poulenc, Inc., Cranberry, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Fund in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n...................................................................................................................................................................................1 5,0 0 0
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program                      in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women...........50,000
Richard H. Rogel, Southfield
for the Campaign for Michigan and for support in the School of Music and the
U n iversity    M u sical  S ociety....................................................................................................................................................2 14,8 00
J. Speed Rogers, Brevard, North Carolina
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School......................................5,000
Marshall V. Rozzi, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health.................................................................5,000
SPX Foundation, Muskegon
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program                     in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts.....................20,050
Theodore Sachs, West Bloomfield
800 shares of Sara Lee Corporation common stock
for  endow   m  ent  support   in  the  Law     School................................................................................................................ 19,950
Saul S. Saulson, Franklin
for the William     Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration.....5,000
Gertrude N. Schuler Estate
for endowment support at the University of Michigan....................................................................................... 5,000
Seidman Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
for  the   M ichigan    A nnual  F u n d................................................................................................................................................5,000
Violet Sharpe Estate
for the Frederick P. and Violet Sharpe Scholarship, the University of
M  ich ig an -D earb orn..................................................................................................................................................................... 10 0,0 0 0
Donald R. Shepherd, Sonoma, California
for the Marching Band Enrichment Fund in the School of Music...........................................................90,000
Gordon H. Sindecuse Estate
for the Sindecuse Dental Museum              in the School of Dentistry.............................................................1,874,990
Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio
400 shares of Heilig-Meyers and 81 shares of Hewlett-Packard common stocks
for the Charles L. and Kathleen Smith Endowment for Vision Research in the
M  e d ical  S ch o o l................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 8,2 4 5
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
380 shares of Bank of Boston common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................................................................10,759
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................7,000
J. Clyde Spencer, East Lansing
210 shares of Independent Bank Corporation-Michigan common stock
for the Isadore Lampe Chair in the Medical School................................................................................................5,093
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for the George E., Jr., and Elizabeth S. Sperling Endowment in the Law                        School.........................5,000
William M. Stein, Jr., Highland Park, New Jersey
for support in the Rackham School of Graduate Studies and the Institute of
P u b lic   P o licy   S tu d ies.....................................................................................................................................................................1 1,9 9 4
Stone & Webster, Inc., New York, New York
for the F. E. Richart Laboratory Fund in the College of Engineering.....................................................5,000
Target Cell Research Diabetes Care Division, Bagsvaerd, Denmark
for research in the Institute of Science and Technology.....................................................................................5,000
Teledyne Charitable Trust Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for   em p loyee   m atch in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................8,0 00
Doris H. Terwilliger Trust
for the Kent M. Terwilliger Dissertation Prize in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,   an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0


219




February Meeting, 1995


Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
L iteratu re,  S cien ce,  an d   th e  A rts........................................................................................................................................ 11,000
Charles V. Thornton III, Los Angeles, California
for  su p p o rt  of  th e   L aw   S ch ool.................................................................................................................................................5,000
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................5,000
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
2,407 shares of Chestnut Street Exchange Fund
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School..........................................354,069
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  support  in   the  School  of  M u sic....................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Travelers Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts........................................................................................  10,060
Trico Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William    Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration......5,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship in the Alumni Association..............................................................6,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program              in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering................................................15,000
Harold and Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for  student  aid  in   the  School  of  E ducation.................................................................................................................. 25,000
Carl H. von Ende, Bloomfield Hills
for   su pp ort  of  th e  L aw   S ch ool.................................................................................................................................................. 5,000
Charles S. Waggoner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Raymond W. Waggoner Fund in the Medical School....................................................................... 15,000
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
64 investment grade diamonds
for the Jean and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in Education in the
School of Education and for gifts pending designation.................................................................................. 441,284
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
400 shares of Kaydon Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration..........................................................................................9,125
Herbert S. Wander, Highland Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Colleges of Engineering, Pharmacy, and Literature, Science, and
the Arts, for research in the Medical School; and for the University Musical Society............88,550
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert Distinguished Lectureship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................. 12,5 0 0
Philip C. Warren, Ann Arbor
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry.......................................................................5,000
Charles N. Weller Trust
for  research    in   the  M edical  School.......................................................................................................................... 380,192
Elizabeth S. Welling Estate
for the Education Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the School of Education.........................5,000
Westmedia Charitable Foundation, Longview, Washington
for the Wallace House Maintenance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G ra d u a te   S tu d ie s...............................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine, and Public Health.............................................88,157
Gilbert R., Jr. and Ruth Whitaker, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert Whitaker Endowment and other support in the School of
Business Administration; the Schools of Art, Music, and Natural Resources and the
Environment; the Colleges of Pharmacy, and Literature, Science, and the Arts; the
Cancer Center and the Geriatric Center; the Friends of the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens, the Museum of Art, and the Bentley Historical Library; the
Center for the Education of Women; the Humanities Institute; the Michigan
League; and    the  U niversity  M  usical Society...................................................................................... 7,000


220




February Meeting, 1995


Clayton E. Wilhite, New Canaan, Connecticut
for the support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
scholarships in the Department of Athletics...............................................................................................................8,500
Thomas S. Wilson, Rochester Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
A  d m in istra  tio n.....................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the    Cancer Center in the Medical School..............................................................................................................5,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for  support      of  the    L aw   School............................................................................................................................................ 25,000
Ferdinand B. Zienty, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of  th e   C ollege    of   P h arm acy.......................................................................................................................................  15,0 00
James D. Zirin, New York, New York
for support of the Law             School............................................................................................................................................5,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and for employee
m  a tc h in g   g ifts........................................250................................................................................................................................................ 1,25 0
AT&T Global Information Solutions, Dayton, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u sin  ess  A  dm  in istration......................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................................................................ 5,000
Aetna Life & Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u sin  ess    A d m in istration............................................................................................................................................................15,000
Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
for research       in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................. 20,000
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for support of the School of Business Administration..........................................................................................5,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for  em   ployee      m atch  in g   gifts......................................................................................................................................................5,080
American Academy of Otolaryngology, Alexandria, Virginia
for  research       in   th e   M edical  S chool........................................................................................................................................5,000
American Association of Spinal Cord Injury Psychologists and Social Workers,
Jackson Heights, New York
for  research       in   the  M edical   School....................................................................................................................................25,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for  research       in   th e  M edical  S chool........................................................................................................................................6,250
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Institute of Science and Technology...............................................127,384
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for  research       in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program                in the School of Business Administration...................................................5,000
American Hearing Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  research       in   the  M edical   School.................................................................................................................................... 10,040
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts......................................130,333................................................................................................................................................. 130,333
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for  research       in   the  M edical   School.................................................................................................................................... 25,000
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research, scholarships, and fellowships in the Medical School...........................................................65,000
Ameritech Michigan, Detroit
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering and for employee
m  a tch  in g   g ift s..................................................................................................................................................................................... 6 5,3 2 1
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for the Parametric Analysis of Engineering Components Fund in the College
o f   E n g in e e rin g.................................................................................................................................................................................... 15,0 0 0
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................7,288


221




February Meeting, 1995


John M. Armstrong, Ann Arbor
for Armstrong Travel Grant in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts....................................................................................................................................................................................................3 3,6 6 7
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for  the  U niversity   M usical  Society.................................................................................................................................... 27,200
Michael and Rose Assarian Family Foundation, Southfield
for  support  in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,000
Joseph H. Ballway, Jr., Evanston, Illinois
100 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School..........................................................................  6,125
Joseph C. Bancroft Educational and Charitable Foundation, McComb, Missouri
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
Administration..............00........................
Banyan Systems, Inc., Westboro, Massachusetts
for the Banyan Systems Annual Scholarship.............................................. 20,000
Fleming A. Barbour, Flint
218 shares of CSX Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund and other support in the Medical School..............15,224
C. R. Bard, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the Medical School............e........... 40,000
Harold and Roberta Barron Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Harold S. Barron Endowed Scholarship in the Law School........................................................25,000
Rodney S. W. Basler, Lincoln, Nebraska
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School.........................................................................5,000
Peggy Bauervic Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Peggy Bauervic Foundation Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.......................10,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, DC
for  support  in   the  School  of  N ursing................................................................................................................................. 5,000
Marion Bellairs, Grand Blanc
for the Tom Ryan Memorial Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint..................................................15,000
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
135 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock and a cash gift
for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Scholarship and other support in the School of
Music, for the University Musical Society, for Camp Michigania, and for WUOM/WVGR...9,924
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
200 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................12,350
Leela Bohra, Dearborn
for the  Bohra  Pedal for  M ichigan  Scholarship  Fund..............................................................................................7,500
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  the  H ill A uditorium   R estoration   Fund............................................................................................................... 30,0 00
Robert S. Bradley, Ann Arbor
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics and for support of the School
of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................6,250
H. Sanborn Brown, Grosse Pointe Farms
1,000 shares of Kmart Corporation and
200 shares of Exxon Corporation common stocks
for the Virginia R. and H. Sanborn Brown Prize Fund in the College of
A rchitecture  and   U rban   P lanning......................................................................................................................................25,275
Richard B. Brown, Ann Arbor
for electrical and computer engineering support in the College of Engineering..........................39,400
James R. Browne, Houston, Texas
for tax policy research in the School of Business Administration...............................................................5,000
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the
D ep artm en t   of   A th letics.............................................................................................................................................................3 0,0 0 0
Leonard E. Bullard Estate
for  unrestricted   support  of the  Law   School...............................................................................................................20,000
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Cancer Center in
the M edical School, and  for the  University  M usical Society...........................................................................5,000


222




February Meeting, 1995


Alfred H. Burwitz Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................................................................................5,064
CBS Foundation, New York, New York
for the Burton R. Benjamin Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G radu   ate   S tu dies............................................................................................................................................................................. 0,000
Mary Lincoln Campbell, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration and for scholarships and
fellowships in the Center for the Education of Women.......................................................................................5,400
Thomas L. Capua, Flint
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................................................. 5,000
Carbomedics, Inc., Austin, Texas
for the Cardio Biomaterials Research Fund in the Medical School.........................................................40640
Michael C. Carey, Chicago, Illinois
700 shares of First Commerce Bancshares, Inc., common stock
for the Carey Travel Award Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................11,550
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the SOAR       Research Fund in the College of Engineering........................................................................ 62,774
Emma Chafitz Trust
for the Robert and Emma Chafitz Endowment and the Emma Ardis Chafitz
E ndow   m  ent  in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 225,000
Chang Family Trust
for the William      A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........................10,000
Chase Manhattan Bank National Association, New York, New York
for the Associates Program            in the School of Business Administration................................................15,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................20,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research and the Searle Scholars Program                  in the Medical School......................................30,000
Clarcor Foundation, Rockford, Illinois
for  em  p loyee  m  atch  in g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................5,000
Marcus and Harryette Cohn Foundation, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Native American Resource Scholarship in the School of Natural
R esou  rces     an d   E nvironm en t......................................................................................................................................................5,000
Christine H. Comstock, Birmingham
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School....................................................................5,000
Alice S. and Allen F. Corey Trust
for chemistry support and the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College
of  L iteratu  re,  Science,   and    the   A rts.....................................................................................................................................5,500
Council for Tobacco Research-USA, Inc., New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................... 32,739
Richard L. Crandall, Ann Arbor
for  support    in   the   M edical  School...................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for research at the University of Michigan.................................................................................................................30,000
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
198 shares of Colgate-Palmolive and
29 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stocks
for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit   of  the  C ollege   of  E ngineering............................................................................................................................... 13,462
Jon A. Cyganiak, Brookfield, Wisconsin
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.................................................................5,000
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
2,000 shares of Somatogen, Inc., common stock for Schembechler Hall in
the Department of Athletics and for support in the Schools of Education and
B u sin ess    A dm in istration............................................................................................................................................................ 14,12 5
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for  research      in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 15,000
William E. Dean, Jr., Fairview Park, Ohio
for the William      E., Jr., and Gloria P. Dean Scholarship...................................................................................25,000
Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham                 School of Graduate Studies.....................................................40,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for  research      in   the  School  of  D entistry......................................................................................................................... 12,064


223




February Meeting, 1995


Roger E. DeMeritt, Bella Vista, Arizona
532 shares of Corning, Inc., common stock
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School........................................................................................................ 16,226
Jack Demmer Ford, Inc., Wayne
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan -D earborn........................................................................................................................................................................  5,0 0 0
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.....................................10,000
Detroit Diesel Corporation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering............        7............7,200
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Funds in the Schools of Business
A dm  inistration     an d   L aw.....000........................................................................................................................................................ 10,000
Walt Disney Company, Burbank, California
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program                     in the School of
B u sin ess   A d m in istration........................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women
and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the School
of Music, the Historical Center for Health Services, the Clements Library, the
Museum      of Art, the Michigan League, and the University Musical Society................................23,160
John M. Dodson Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.......................................................................... 10,000
Dixon and Carol Doll Trust
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics and for the Hill Auditorium
R e sto ra tio n   F u n d................................................................................................................................................................................6,0 0 0
Dow Brands, L.P., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Programin the School of
B u sin ess  A d m in istration............................................................................................................................................................... 7,5 0 0
Dow Elanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Programin the School of
B u sin ess  A dm in istration............................................................................................................................................................ 7,5 0 0
Morris D. Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts........................................................................................................................................................................8,9 0 0
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the School of Art and the College of Architecture and Urban
P lan n in g..................................................................................................................................................................................................2 5,0 0 0
William G. Earle, Miami, Florida
for the Ruth and George Earle Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Clements Library............................................................... 5,250
Ann Eastman Estate
for  books  for  the   U niversity   L ibrary................................................................................................................................5,000
Charles Edison Fund, East Orange, New Jersey
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..........................................................................................15,000
Virginia J. Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida
for the Virginia J. Ehrlicher Fellowship in the School of Information and
L ib ra ry   S tu d ie s................................................................................................................................................................................5 0,0 0 0
Livingstone Elder, Walpole, New Hampshire
964 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for the Livingstone Elder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
College   of A rchitecture    and  U rban    Planning........................................................................................................ 100,138
Frank R. and Gertrude K. Ellis, Arvada, Colorado
1,280 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the Frank R. and Gertrude K. F. Ellis Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of student aid at the University of Michigan.................................................32,720
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for  research     in   the  College  of  E ngineering.................................................................................................................. 10,000
Ruth Stine Fajans, Ann Arbor
2,282 shares of T. Rowe mutual fund and
100 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Ruth Fajans Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in Diabetes and Metabolism                  in the Medical School.................23,706


224




February Meeting, 1995


Russell H. Fifield, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................................................................................ 10,000
First Union Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Programin the School of
B u sin ess  A dm  inistration                                                                                      15  000............................................................................................................................................................15,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for  support   of  the   L aw   School.................................................................................................................................................5,000
James P. Fitzgerald, Ann Arbor
for  support   in  the  School   of  Public  H  ealth.....................................................................................................................6,000
Flint Area School Employees Credit Union, Flint
for the Fourth Annual Computer Science High School Programming Contest,
th e   U niversity    of   M ich igan -F lint............................................................................................................................................5,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan -D earb  orn.........................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
ichigan-earbornMichigan-Dearborn.........................................................................................................................................................................20,000
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan -D earb  orn.........................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School, for support at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts.................................................................................... 106,626
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for  the  H ill  A uditorium     R estoration    Fund.................................................................................................................... 5,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Parker B. Francis Fellowship in the Medical School......................................................................... 18,000
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the School of Education and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial
Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................10,000
Willard G. Fraumann, Deerfield, Illinois
230 shares of Office Depot and
71 shares of Pacific Sunwear of California common stocks
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics and for support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................................................................................6,382
Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................5,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for  research     in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 48,760
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
434 shares of Quanex Corporation common stock
for the Larry Teal Scholarship in Saxophone, the All-State Scholarships, and
other support in the School of Music; for support of the Law School; and for
th e   U n iversity   M u sical   S ociety................................................................................................................................................9,928
Fruehauf Foundation, St. Clair Shores
for the Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship in the School of Business Administration.........175,000
Robert A. Fuhrman, Pebble Beach, California
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering............................................................10,000
Ruth Galloway Trust
for the Calvin B. Galloway Fund in the Medical School................................................................................623,435
Gassin Family Foundation, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Amy and Nancy Gassin Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
L iterature,   Science,   and    the   A rts......................................................................................................................................25,000
Carolyn A. Gatward Trust
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics............................................... 100,000
Wood M. Geist, Washington
for support in the Schools of Art and Education and for the Humanities Institute
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................................................................. 7,000
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship Program..................................................................................................6,000
Elmer G. Gilbert, Ann Arbor
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering...............................................................5,000


225




February Meeting, 1995


Richard M. Gillett, North Palm          Beach, Florida
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................11,350
Percy Howard Ging Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.......................................................................................5,000
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and for unrestricted support of the
C am  p aign   for  M ich igan.................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Julia Goodman, Dana Point, California
real estate   for  support   in  the  School of M   usic.....................................................................................................300,000
J. Richard Goulet, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics, for the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, and for WUOM/WVGR.........................................................................................................5,200
Thomas M. Graber, Evanston, Illinois
a real estate land trust for the Thomas and Doris Graber Unitrust Fund for
the  ultim  ate  benefit  of the  School of D   entistry...................................................................................................635,000
Ruth B. Gramlich, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Trinova Corporation and
112 shares of Chemical Banking Corporation common stocks
for the Ruth B. Gramlich Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of  the  Institute  of  Public  Policy  Studies................................................................................................................. 12,718
Eugene M. Grant and Company, New York, New York
for the Kelsey Museum         of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............50,000
Whitmore Gray, Ann Arbor
for the Bishop Prize, the Yntema Prize, and the Student Funded Fellowship
in   th e   L a w   S ch o o l..............................................................................................................................................................................5,5 0 0
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School and for the University Musical Society............. 12,500
James B. Griffin, Bethesda, Maryland
for the James B. Griffin Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the  College   of Literature, Science, and       the  A rts..................................................................................................5,000
John R. Griffith, Ann Arbor
304 shares of Fidelity's Magellan mutual fund
for the John R. Griffith Fund and other support in the School of Public
Health and for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................10,10 0
Joseph F. Haas, Atlanta, Georgia
410 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Geismer-Haas-Reinanch Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
L iterature,   Science,   and    the   A rts........................................................................................................................................20,866
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for  support   in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Lucy E. W. Hamilton, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, for support in the School of Music and the Museum                    of Art, and
for the Bentley Historical and Clements Libraries.................................................................................................5,125
John T. Hammond, Kenosha, Wisconsin
for the Clare Sliney Memorial Fund in the School of Education............................................................... 10,000
Sheila Ford Hamp, Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art, the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and the Clements
Library; and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of  M ich igan -D earb orn.....................................................................................................................................................................5,5 0 0
Harper Collins Publishers, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u sin ess  A dm in istration.......................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts....................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
14 shares of Harris Family Investment Company common stock
for the Humanities Institute Challenge Grant and other support in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for support of the Law School................................................9,996
Health Education Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School........................................................... 9,003


226




February Meeting, 1995


Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Fund, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship, School of Business Administration..... 103,750
Jon R. Holt, Plymouth
for industrial engineering support in the College of Engineering................................................ 8,500
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for  supp ort  of  the   L aw   S chool................................................................................................................................................5,000
Intel Corporation Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer science engineering support in the College of Engineering.......20,000
Ralph J. Isackson, Bay City
100 shares of NationsBank Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Isackson-Biller Law Student Scholarship in the Law                 School........................................................5,144
Thomas H. Jeffs II, Grosse Pointe Farms
500 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock
for support of the School of Business Administration....................................................................................13,250
Garrett B. Johnson, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law              School................................................ 10,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Education/Research Fund in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research     in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 137,250
Laura Johnston Estate
for support in the School of Information and Library Studies............................................... 6,737
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and theArts125000and the Arts......................................................................................................................................................................................and theArts125,000
Ray W. Judson, Pasadena, California
for the Ray W. and Mary Lou Judson Scholarship in the College of Engineering......................20,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts  6............................................................................................................................................................................................. 6,0 0 0
Richard Katcher, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship and other support
in the Law School and for the Tom Ryan Scholarship, general scholarships,
and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.......................................................... 20,200
Stella Kaufman Trust
for the Geriatrics Center and the Lewis D. and Stella Kaufman Fund in the
Medical School and for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace
H.  R ackham     School  of  G raduate  Studies...................................................................................................................... 15,500
Richard Kerr, Chelsea
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................5,000
Keycorp, Toledo, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration and for employee matching gifts...........................................................................15,250
Mary G. and C. Robert Kidder, Ridgefield, Connecticut
2,500 shares of Duracell common stock for scholarships in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................................................................... 107,344
Eva J. Kinney, St. Joseph
for   su pp ort   in   th e   S ch ool   of   A rt...........................................................................................................................................10,0 00
Kraft General Foods Foundation, Glenview, Illinois
for the Associates Program         in the School of Business Administration...................................................9,000
C. Douglas Kranwinkle, New York, New York
for the William     W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship in the Law School.....................................15,000
Dorothy Lahey, Plymouth
for  the  Cancer   Center   in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................5,000
Lynn A. Leedy, New Canaan, Connecticut
for the R. Timothy Leedy Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......................10,000
Suzanne R. Lehmann, New York, New York
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan........................................................................10,000
Judith C. Leondar Trust
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Endowment Funds in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  a n d   th e   A rts.....................................................................................................................................................................14,0 0 0
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for  research     in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 8 9 10


227




February Meeting, 1995


Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the
A rts   and   for   support   of  the   L aw   School...........................................................................................................................6,000
Michael J. Levitt, Englewood, New Jersey
for support of the School of Business Administration and for the Rollicking
C rew   E ndow ed   S ch olarship............................................................................................................................................   10,500
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program             in the School of
Business Administration................................................................ 15,000
Jeffrey Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Jeffrey and Susan Liss Travel Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Jeffrey and Susan Liss Scholarship in the Law School...........................5,000
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Research Funds in the Medical School................................. 26,220
Loews Foundation, New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Hospitals................. 12,500
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
675 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Robert P. Luciano Fund in the Law School.................................................49402
MBNA American Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware
for the Alumni Association Scholarship in the Alumni Association............................................. 5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  support in  the  Schools  of Education  and  Law..................................................................................................27,225
John W. Madigan, Chicago, Illinois
100 shares of Tribune Company common stock
for  support  in  the  School of Business  Adm inistration..........................................................................................5,400
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics..............................................................25,000
Mary Anne Mangelsen, Chelsea
for research and other support in the Medical School and for Camp Michigania..........................5,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  S ch ool.................................................................................................................................... 9 750
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for the  Cancer Center   in  the  M edical School............................................................................................................   5 00
Mazda (North America), Inc., Flat Rock
for the art benefit in the Museum of Art....................................5........................................................................ 000
Joanne T. Meagher, Ypsilanti
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
L iteratu re, Science, an d   th e  A rts........................................................................................................................................6,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................50,000
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for  the   U niversity   M usical  Society.....................................................................................................................................35,600
Michigan Chamber Foundation, Lansing
for the Ameritech-Michigan Chamber Scholarship, the University of
M ichigan-D  earborn.14                                                                              200........................................................................................................................................................................ 14,200
Arthur A. Miller, Roxbury, Connecticut
for the Arthur Miller Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jeffrey and Marsha Miro Endowed Scholarship in the Law School...........................100,000
Mobil Corporation, Fairfax, Virginia
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u sin ess  A dm inistration.......................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the School of Business Administration, for the Engineering
Center in the College of Engineering, for the Monroe-Brown Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration
F und,  and   th e   C lem ents   L ibrary................................................................................................................. h................... 121,000
Mary L. Moon, Harbor Springs
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics........................................................................ 10,000
James Morgan Estate
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering..........................................................................5,000


228




February Meeting, 1995


John C. and Sally S. Morley, Cleveland, Ohio
27,258 shares of Reliance Electric Company common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Business Administration....................................................................................997,922
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the OLTP Multicomputer Research Fund and the Industrial Partners of
Computer Science Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering.....................................................30,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint............................................................................................4,000,000
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for the NBD Assistant Professorship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School, for scholarships in the Department
of A thletics,  and  for  em ployee   m  atching   gifts........................................................................................................405,180
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
for  periodontics    support   in   the  School of D entistry.............................................................................................20,000
Robert H. Nathan, Highland Park, Illinois
for the JoAnn and Stuart Nathan C.E.M. Initiative Funds in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment..................................................... 25,000
Scott A. Nathan, Highland Park, Illinois
for the JoAnn and Stuart Nathan C.E.M. Initiative Funds in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment..................................................... 25,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for  research    in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................... 45,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for  research    in   the   M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 6,250
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for  research    in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 6,250
Linden Nelson, Beverly Hills
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............................5,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in Physical Medicine in the
M  ed ical  S ch o o l...........15........................................................................................................................................................................  15,0 0 0
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
for the William     W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship in the Law              School..................................... 10,000
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.................................................................................25,000
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Charitable Fund, Houston, Texas
for  support   in   the  College  of  Engineering.....................................................5................................................................. 5,000
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for the Direct Access Diagnostics Challenge Fund in the Law School................................................ 15,000
Thomas W. Ostrander, New York, New York
for endowment support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................15,000
Brian P. Patchen, Miami, Florida
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for golf course restoration and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of
Athletics, for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music, for the Stanley S.
Kemp Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology, and for the Clements Library..........................9,375
Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
1,000 shares of Great Lakes Bancorp common stock
for  research     in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................26,938
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Schools of Public Health and Natural
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy..........................................................................6,000
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
for  the  U niversity    M u sical  Society........................................................................................................................................7,500
Ronald L. Piasecki, Spring Lake
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................20,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for  research     in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................15,000
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for   su pp ort  of  th e   L aw   S chool....................................................................    00............................................................................... 5,000


229




February Meeting, 1995


Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for  research    in  the  College  of  Pharm   acy.................................................................................................................... 20,000
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
330 shares of Watkins-Johnson Company common stock
for the History of Art Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............10,230
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for  research     in   the   M edical  School...................................................................................................................................... 6,250
Robert B. and Pearl P. Richardson Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................................................................. 12,234
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics..................................................    25,531
Elizabeth G. Richart, Ann Arbor
395 shares of Keycorp common stock
for the F. E. Richart Laboratory Fund in the College of Engineering and for
support in the Center for the Education of Women............................................................................................ 9,876
Kenneth J. Robinson, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment in the Medical School.......................................................,500
Lois R. Ross Trust
for support in the College of Arts and Sciences and for the Coleman and
Lois Ross Scholarship Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint..........................................50,000
Sterling L. Ross, Jr., Mill Valley, California
257 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland common stock
for  support    of  the  L aw   School............................................................................................................................................ 5,060
Alan I. Rothenberg, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law        School...................................................................................................................................................   5,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Kettering, Ohio
for  support   in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering......................................................................................................................5,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration............................................................................................................................................................ 51,000
Douglas A. Ryckman, Tampa, Florida
for  the  support   in   the  School of   Public   H ealth...........................................................................................................5,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for the Schering-Plough Educational Fund and the Plough Pharmacy
Scholarship       in   the  C ollege  of  Pharm acy..................................................................................................................... 145,000
Milton J. Schloss, Cincinnati, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,000
Madeleine C. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R. C. Schneider Neurosurgical Fund in the Medical School and for the
C le m e n ts   L ib ra ry................................................................................................................................................................................5,10 0
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............7,048
Searle Family Trust
for the Sally and William L. Searle Endowment in the School of Natural
R esources    and    E nviron m  ent................................................................................................................................................398,826
Violet Sharpe Estate
7,807 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Violet Sharpe Endowed Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..............118,372
Myron M. Sheinfeld, Houston, Texas
for    su pp ort   of   th e   L aw   S ch ool................................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Sonoma, California
real estate for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music.......................................................................................303,539
Wataro Shinohara, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the College of Engineering.................................................................... 15,000
Irene Shipman Estate
63,703 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for  the  Irene   G. Shipm   an   Scholarship.....................................................................................................................3,170,883
Joel S. Siegel, Evanston, Illinois
500 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................................25,969
Edmund J. Sikorski, Jr., Trust Account, Ann Arbor
for  the  H ill  A uditorium     R estoration    Fund..................................................................................................................20,000


230




February Meeting, 1995


Gilbert B. Silverman, Southfield
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School....................................000.....................................................................
Joel N. Simon, Washington, DC
for  support    in   th e   L aw   School.......................................................................................................................................   12, 00
William M. and Julia A. Skubik, Plymouth
for  the    Skubik    Sch olarship............................................................................................................................6,000
Nelson L. Smith Building, Escanaba
for the Nelson L. Smith Award in the School of Dentistry...............................................................................5,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship in Chemistry in the
Horace H. Rackham            School of Graduate Studies.................................................................................................20,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Solovy Judaica Book Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education........................................................................................................................11,700
Theodore J. St. Antoine, Ann Arbor
for the Student Funded Fellowship and other support in the Law School and
for  the    U niversity    M usical  Society......................................................................................................................................5,700
Stark Hickey West, Inc., Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich ig an -D earb  o rn........................................................................................................................................................................ 1 0,0 0 0
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for  support    in   the   School  of  Public   H  ealth.....................................................................................................................5,100
Christopher J. Steffen, Greenwich, Connecticut
475 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................................29,866
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................................................................27,000
Martha J. Stockard, Vallejo, California
134 shares of Janus Twenty mutual funds
for the biological station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................6,063
Robert A. Straub, Ann Arbor
148 shares of Caremark International and
95 shares of Baxter International common stocks
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................................5,191
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School......................................6,500
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School...................................................................................................8,581
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for the Teaching Excellence Fund and other support in the School of Business
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration1,000Business Administration............................................................................................................................................................ 1,000
Teijin Institute for Biomedical Research, Tokyo, Japan
for  research      in   the  C ollege  of  P harm acy...................................................................................................................... 15,000
Telecom Analysis Systems, Inc., Eatontown, New Jersey
for  support    in    the  C ollege  of  E ngineering...................................................................................................................10,000
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law               Library Endowment in the Law                 School................................................5,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust
for the Library Development Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint.................................................79,800
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for the Arthur Thurnau Income Fund.................................................................................................................... 169,116
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the Horace H.
R ackham       School of   G  raduate    Studies.......................................................................................................................... 50,000
Tisch Foundation, New York, New York
for  the  U  niversity     of M ichigan     H ospitals.................................................................................................................... 12,500


231




February Meeting, 1995


Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts..100................................................................................................................................................................ 10 0,0 0 0
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Margaret Towsley Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women,
for the A. James French Endowed Professorship in the Medical School, for
Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics, for the Trudy Huebner Dance
Scholarship in the School of Music, and for the Hill Auditorium            Restoration Fund.............454,000
Frank H. Tranzow, Arcadia, California
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
L iterature,  Science,  an d   the   A rts.........................................................................................................................................8,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics........................................... 6,500
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for Post-Classical Greek Studies Program         in the Horace H. Rackham        School
o f   G ra d u a te   S tu d ies.........................................................................................................................................................................8,3 2 4
Ufer and Company Insurance, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School                                             000.......................................5 0
David Ulrich, Ann Arbor
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship, School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Union Pump Fund for the Domestic MBA Corps in the School of
B u sin ess   A dm in istration............................................................................................................................................................2 0,00 0
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................12,500
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration.......................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for   em ployee   m atch in g   gift s....................................................................................................................................................2 1,546
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Upjohn Company Scholarship in the School of Public Health and
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy.............................................................39,000
Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
161 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Kelsey Museum       of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............8,512
Vintage Charities, Foster City, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School..........................................................10,000
Bob Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the Robert J. Vizas Dean's Merit Scholarship and other support in the
College  of  Literature, Science, and    the  A rts..............................................................................................................20,500
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for Schembechler Hall and other support in the Department of Athletics, for
the William S. Smith Research Fund in the Medical School, and for support
in the School of Education and the Division of Kinesiology.............................................................................7,000
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......5,000
Robert E. Wagenfeld, White Plains, New York
for support of the Law School................................................................................................................................................25,000
John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Charles R. Walgreen III, Deerfield, Illinois
432 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy................................................19,737
Hugh M. Wanty, Ann Arbor
400 shares of Great Lakes Bancorp common stock and a cash gift
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering and for
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................................................................10,865
John D. Warner, Seattle, Washington
120 shares of Boeing Company common stock and a cash gift
for  support  in   the   C ollege  of  E ngin eering......................................................................................................................6,209


232




February Meeting, 1995


Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research and the Cancer Center in the Medical School and for biostatistics
support  in  the  School  of  Public  H ealth.......................................................................................................................203,004
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  support  in  the  C ollege  of  Pharm acy........................................................................................................................47,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Frankena and Stevenson Prizes Fund and the Marshall Weinberg
Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................20,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 11,000
David L. Westin, New York, New York
for support of the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................10,100
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program and other support
in  the  School of  B usiness  A dm inistration....................................................................................................................28 000
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering and the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies...................................................................................................................................................ool of Graduate Studies382,607
Diane K. Wilson, Dekalb, Illinois
for the Alice Kern Fund in the School of Music..........................................0.0............................. 00
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the  Geriatrics  Center  in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................50 00
Kurt J. Wolff, New York, New York
for   su p p ort   of   th e   L aw   S ch ool.................................................................................................................................................. 5, 00 0
J. Reimer Wolter, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Endowed Professorship in the Medical School............................................ 10,000
Ronald J. Woods, North Palm Beach, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics........................................................................... 10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the  Engineering  Center in  the  College  of Engineering.............................................................................50,000
Daisy T. Wu Trust, Ann Arbor
for  the  Shapiro  Fund  in  the  U niversity  Library.....................................................................................................20,000
Xerox Corporation, U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology and
for  the  U niversity   of M ichigan   H ospitals........................................................................................................................5,400
Yaffe & Company, Southfield
for the Yaffe & Company Fund for Advertising, School of Business Administration........... 100,000
Roy H. Ziegler Trust
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics and for
the Roy H. and Helen Ziegler Scholarship in the College of Engineering.........................................10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer, Inc., Austin, Texas
a Power McIntosh 7100/66 computer, a MAC color display monitor, and an Apple adjustable
keyboard for the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences
Automated Analysis Corporation, Ann Arbor
five Apollo computer/workstations for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering
John J. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
six various journals for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Norman Buyikian, Redford
27 telescope mirrors and 37 convex lenses for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of Natural Sciences
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
two industrial robots for the University of Michigan-Flint Department of Physics and Engineering Sciences
Thomas L. Harris, Highland Park, Illinois
558 jazz LP recordings for the School of Music
Harry J. Hedlund, Chicago, Illinois
Catalonian musical instruments and related materials for the School of Music
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
binders, color slides, publication reprints, and protective sleeves for the Department of History
of Art


233




February Meeting, 1995


Chester G. Starr, Ann Arbor
various books and translations for the Department of Classical Studies
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
an oil on canvas painting 28 1/2" x 40 1/2" by Maniscolco of Dr. Harry A. Towsley for the
Towsley Center for Post-Graduate Education
Ann Arbor Electrogram Libraries, Ann Arbor
an Electrogram database for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
various books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigan Library
Lawrence S. Brown, Ann Arbor
PC software for the Institute for Continuing Legal Education
Albert C. Cain, Canton
various books and journals for the Department of Psychology
Thomas N. Cross, Ann Arbor
two manuscript maps on birch-bark, ca. 1890, for the Clements Library
Patrick H. Daoust, Dearborn
six aquatint and etching a la poupee prints by Manuel Robbe (1872-1936) for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Georgiana Clark Fenton, Bay City
52 separate pieces of sheet music dated from 1850-1950 for the Clements Library
Richard W. Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
600 volumes of professional reference materials relating to plants, gardens, and landscapes for
the School of Natural Resources and Environment
Gertrude Huntington, Ann Arbor
a collection of Columbian Exposition, 1893, photographs for the Clements Library
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
a Sun computer with accessories and manuals for the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
Hebert Johe, Ann Arbor
architectural illustrations of the Clements Library for the Clements Library
Philip P. Mason, Dearborn
13 albumen prints of various subjects for the Clements Library
Laird U. Park, Jr., Villanova, Pennsylvania
five Worsley Emes British and American service documents and three water color paintings by
Frederick Cozzens for the Clements Library
C. Edward Wall, Ypsilanti
artwork entitled "Column I" by Howard Ben Tre dated 1983 for the University of MichiganDearborn Art Collection


Additional gifts ranging from $1
following donors:
Susan E. Alcock, Ann Arbor
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor
Fellowship of Medical Spouses, Ypsilanti
Leo Frank & Sons, Troy
Bruce W. Frier, Ann Arbor
Peter R. Gluck, Flint
Eunice F. Haven, Highland Park, Illinois
Osgan Kechian, Manhasset, New York
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Michael Meckler, Columbus, Ohio
K. Sara Myers, Ann Arbor
Joseph L. Rife, Ann Arbor
Lorne Shirinian, Ann Arbor
Robert J. Sklenar, Ann Arbor
Charlotte V. Stokes, Fenton
Hal R. Varian, Ann Arbor
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor
George E. Amendt, Ann Arbor
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor
D. R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor
Jane E. Baldus, Lansing
Thomas R. Boothby, Ann Arbor


to $999 in value were received from      the
David Bosse, Ann Arbor
Celeste A. Brusati, Ann Arbor
Thomas F. Crandell, Chelsea
John C. Dann, Dexter
Brian L. Dunnigan, Youngstown, New York
Traianos Gagos, Ann Arbor
Doris George, Ann Arbor
Marlene E. Gordon, Dearborn
Catherine P. Hanson, Ann Arbor
Georgia Campbell Haugh, Ann Arbor
Janette M. Huddle, Howell
Sandra Jeffries, Bloomfield Township
Roderick R. Jenkins, Westland
Shirley Y. Kauper, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
James A. Leonard, Ann Arbor
Margaret Levenstein, Ann Arbor
Richard Levitt, Atlanta, Georgia
Bonnie Loesel, Ann Arbor
Thomas P. MacDonnell, Williamsburg, Virginia
K. Gerald Marsden, Paradise
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
Kent Murray, Dearborn


234




February Meeting, 1995


Carolyn Parkus, Ann Arbor              Barry Shea, Novelty, Ohio
Mary Sponberg Pedley, Ann Arbor        Kevin A. Sheets, Ann Arbor
David Potter, Ann Arbor                William E. Smoyer, Saline
Doug Price, Ann Arbor                  Ninfa S. Springer, Whitmore Lake
John H. Ripperger, Grand Rapids        Janet Stokes, Ann Arbor
Ritz-Carlton Dearborn, Dearborn        TAL Materials and Consulting, Ann Arbor
Romesh Saigal, Ann Arbor               Christine Thomas, Ann Arbor
Donald Sandberg, Ann Arbor             Howard R. Williams, Cedarville
Peter Severn, Chelsea                  Clarence Wolf, Philadelphia, Pennsylviani
Provost's Reports.         Provost Whitaker submitted       personnel actions,
personnel reports, retirement memoirs, and memorial statements. He noted the
change in title for Douglas E. VanHouweling to vice provost for academic
outreach and information technology and dean for academic outreach. He also
pointed out the appointments of six faculty members as Arthur F. Thurnau
professors.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective March 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Holland, Graham R., Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry
Kennedy, Charles B., B.Mus., Associate Professor of Music (Horn), September 1, 1995
Mackenzie, Ian C., Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry
Montie, James E., M.D., Professor of Surgery, February 1, 1995
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science
and Engineering, returned to active status, one-year term
Cooper, Mary A, Associate Professor Emerita of Education, UM-Flint, returned to active status,
fall term 1994
Curtis, Theodore T., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work,
UM-Flint, returned to active status, fall term 1994
Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, returned to active status,
one-year term
Fredricksen, Erik, reappointed Chair, Department of Theatre and Drama, five-year term,
September 1, 1995
Freter, Rolf G., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, returned to active status, one-year term,
February 1, 1995
Gikas, Paul W., reappointed Assistant Dean for Admissions, Medical School, two-year term
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, returned to active status, winter term
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, returned to active status, winter term
Pijanowski, Eugene M., reappointed Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, School of Art,
one-year term, July 1, 1995
Schwank, Johannes appointment extended as Chair, Department of Chemical Engineering,
winter term
Williams, G. Brymer, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, returned
to active status, one-year term


235




February Meeting, 1995


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kabamba, Pierre T., from Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, to Professor of
Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, without tenure, September 1, 1994
Low, Bobbi S., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, also appointed Professor of Population Planning and International Health,
without tenure, School of Public Health, five-year term, March 1, 1995
McDonald, Terrence J., Professor of History, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, also
appointed Associate Dean for Academic Appointments, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, three-year term, July 1, 1995
Rea, David K., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Geological Sciences, five-year term, July 1, 1995
White, Chelsea C., III, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure,
January 1, 1995
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1-December 31, 1995
Singh, Medini R., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, teaching leave
extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Aparicio, Frances R., Associate Professor of Spanish and American Culture, also appointed
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Howard, June M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies,
also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Khargonekar, Pramod P., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, also
appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Samson, Perry J., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, without tenure, also appointed Arthur
F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Speth, John D., Curator, Museum of Anthropology, and Professor of Anthropology, with tenure,
also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Van Houweling, Douglas E., from Vice Provost for Information Technology to Vice Provost for
Academic Outreach and Information Technology and Dean for Academic Outreach,
January 1, 1995-June 30, 1999
Voorhees, John J., Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Dermatology, also appointed the Duncan 0. and Ella M. Poth Distinguished Professor of
Dermatology, five-year term, January 20, 1995
Marshiall H. Becker Collegiate Professorship of Public Health             The
Regents approved the establishment of the Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professorship of Public Health, effective March 1, 1995.


236




February Meeting, 1995


Change in Name of Nathan Sinai Professorship of Public Health.
The Regents approved the renaming of the Nathan Sinai Professorship of Public
Health to the Richard D. Remington Collegiate Professorship of Public Health,
effective March 1, 1995.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval:
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selections Committee
Roach, Thomas A., retroactive appointment, January 1-December 31, 1995, vice Geraldine
Bledsoe Ford, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Brown, Allan C. D., retroactive appointment, December 1, 1994-June 30, 1997, vice Richard
Woods, resigned
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Fortner, Richard W., retroactive appointment, January 1-May 31, 1995, vice John Maqarquardt,
sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Jeong, ByungKee, M.Div., Lecturer in Business Administration
Reinhart, Karen B., M.B.A, Lecturer in Accounting
School of Dentistry
Gong, Siew-Ging, B.D.S., Assistant Professor of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry
College of Engineering
Nguyen, Clark T. C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Tilbury, Dawn M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Law School
Clark, Sherman J., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law
Thornton, Brenda V., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, November 9, 1994
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aerol, Margaret A, M.A., Lecturer II in Native American Studies
Barrett, Andrea F., B.S., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Betancourt, Luis A, M.A., Lecturer II in Sociology
Blanchard, Teresa I., Assoc., Lecturer I in Italian
Bodenbender, Brian E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Cahlon, Lili, B.A, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language
Campbell, Andrew R., M.A, Lecturer II in American Studies
Chasteen, Amy L., M.A, Lecturer II in Sociology
Cohen, Dov J., M.A, Lecturer I in Psychology
De Arcangelis, Giuseppe, M.A, Lecturer II in Economics
Farley, Richard R., Jr., B.F.A, Lecturer II in Computer Media
Foss, Pedar W., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Gehring, William J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, December 1, 1994
Grayzel, Susan R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History


237




February Meeting, 1995


Holliman, Daniel A, B.A., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies
Kim, Soo-Bong, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics
Koreck, Maria T., M.A, Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Liu, Maichen T., M.A, Lecturer I in Comparative Literature
Lutkehaus, Nancy C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology
McNellen, Brad E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Greek and Latin
Nation, Richard F., AM., Lecturer I in Studies in Religion
Potts, Blyden B., B.A, Lecturer II in Sociology
Primorac, Maria K, M.A, Lecturer I in Spanish
Qiu, Shanping, B.A, Lecturer I in Chinese
Rastalsky, Hartmut M., M.A, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Rooney, Phyllis A, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Schulz, Amy J., M.S.W., Lecturer I in Women's Studies
Shaw, Todd C., M.A, Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies
Sobel, David, B.A, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Spriggs, Lynne E., M.A, Lecturer II in American Studies
Stratikis, Frank D., B.A, Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Taylor, G. Keith, M.A, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Wilson, Leon C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies
Medical School
Clark, Nina M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, October 1, 1994
Eaton, Michael P., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, December 1, 1994
Felbeck, Peter G., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Gaut, James R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, December 1, 1994
Roth, Michael, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology, December 1, 1994
College of Pharmacy
Erickson, Steven R., Pharm.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
Himlin, Mary E., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, December 1, 1994
Rice, Kevin G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
School of Public Health
Brown, Joseph W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Population Planning and International Health
CANCELLATIONS OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Godfrey, John B., Ph.D. (previously reported as Lecturer II in History, September 1, 1993)
Lee, Shin-Yun, Ph.D. (previously reported as Lecturer in Psychology, January 1, 1995)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Kirsch, Ned L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Kuhn, Janet L., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Assistant Research Scientist,
October 1, 1994
Persky, Neal W., from Instructor to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
School of Music
Newby, Stephen M., from Instructor in Music (Composition/Computer Arts) to Assistant
Professor of Music (Music/Media Technology and Composition), September 1, 1995
School of Nursing
Cameron, Judith W., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing


238




February Meeting, 1995


School of Public Health
Fajans, Peter S., from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of International Health
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Beckley, Robert M., Dean and Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure,
administrative leave, February 1-May 31, 1995
School of Art
Pijanowski, Hiroko S., Professor of Art, with tenure, personal leave
School of Business Administration
Pirrong, Stephen C., Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, contract leave
School of Education
Angus, David L., Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Engineering
Banks, Peter M., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, personal leave
School of Information and Library Studies
Frost, Carolyn O., Associate Dean and Professor of Information and Library Studies, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1995
Pao, Miranda L., Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 24-May 31, 1995
Law School
Lempert, Richard O., Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and
Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Achenbaum, W. Andrew, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1, 1994 -June 30, 1995
Burnham, Robyn J., Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Professor of Geological
Sciences, duty off campus, January 10-February 15, 1995
Ellison, Julie K., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Genne, Beth, Lecturer III in Art History, Residential College, and Lecturer in History of Art,
research leave
Goic, Cedomil, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor of Spanish-American Literature, with
tenure, duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 1995
Larimore, Ann E., Professor of Geography and Women's Studies, with tenure, personal leave
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Zwiep, Mary N., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, research leave
Medical School
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement furlough,
December 1, 1994-November 30, 1995
Claflin, J. Latham, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1995
Clopton, Ben M., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, personal leave,
September 1-December 31, 1994
Cole, Theodore M., Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with tenure, retirement
furlough, July 18-August 31, 1994
Coyne, James C., Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1994


239




February Meeting, 1995


Ernst, Stephen A., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
August 1, 1994-July 31, 1995
Huelke, Donald F., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
November 1-30, 1994
Korobkin, Melvyn T., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sick leave extended,
December 19, 1994-April 18, 1995
Kronfol, Ziad A, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1994-February 28, 1995
Levy, Robert J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 11-June 25, 1995
Margolis, Philip M., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1994
Martel, William, Fred Jenner Hodges Professor of Radiology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
October 24-November 23, 1994
Neidhardt, Frederick C., Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology, with tenure, and Associate Vice President for Research, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1994
Omann, Geneva M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1994-February 28, 1995
Ragsdale, Carol G., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
extended sick leave, July 1, 1993-June 30, 1995
Simpson, Robert U., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
October 1, 1994-March 31, 1995
School of Music
Ormand, Fred, Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Stein, Louise K, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave
School of Public Health
Bashshur, Rashid L., Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave September 1, 1994-May 31 1995
School of Social Work
Garvin, Charles D., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Johnson, Harold R., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor
of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of Public Health,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1995
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Raleigh, Mary E., Lecturer in English, sick leave extended, January 22-April 30, 1995
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1994-May 31, 1995
College of Engineering
Palsson, Bernhard O., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, research leave,
(previously reported as leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1994)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
Holmes, John W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure (previously reported as sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1995)
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Hansen, Kristina D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure (previously reported as
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995)


240




February Meeting, 1995


TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Stenson, Timothy L., Assistant Professor of Architecture, resigned
School of Art
Stephenson, John H., Catherine B. Heller Professor, with tenure, retired
School of Business Administration
Murtha, Thomas P., Assistant Professor of International Business, resigned, May 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Jones, Robin A, Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete
Keevil, Joan M., Associate Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and
Lecturer in Dental Public Health, School of Public Health, deceased, December 30, 1994
College of Engineering
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, retired
Jain, Ramesh C., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
resigned
Shaw, Steven W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, resigned
Law School
Bennett, P. E., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, resigned
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Baron, Desiree A, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1994
De Benedette, Lynne, Lecturer II in Russian Literature, term complete, April 30, 1994
Dorsey, Michael K., Lecturer I in Natural Resources, resigned, April 30, 1994
Dunn, Elizabeth R., Lecturer II in History of Art, resigned, December 31, 1993
Elnitsky, Serge, Lecturer II in Mathematics, term complete, December 31, 1993
Halsted, David G., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, term complete
Haniff, Nesha Z., Lecturer in Afroamerican and African Studies and Women's Studies, resigned
Hogan, Michael R., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, term complete, December 31, 1993
Lopez-Cotin, Olga, Lecturer II in Spanish Language and Literature, resigned, April 30, 1994
Moore, Kathleen A, Lecturer II in Music, term complete, April 30, 1994
Nelson, Anne B., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, term complete, April 30, 1994
Schiller, Robert, Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete, April 30, 1994
Van Deventer, Mermone, Lecturer I in French, term complete, April 30, 1994
Medical School
Brown, Kimberly A, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, December 6, 1994
Clopton, Ben M., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, resigned
Fink, David J., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, resigned, November 30, 1994
Freter, Rolf G., Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, retired, January 31, 1995
Gikas, Paul W., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Assistant Dean for Admissions, Medical
School, retired
Gratiot-Deans, Jeanne M., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, November 30, 1994
Krauss, John C., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, December 1, 1994
Obreque-Fuica, Victor H., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned,
December 10, 1994
Okechuku, Theodore E., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned
Roth, Mark S., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, deceased,
November 28, 1994
School of Music
Costa, John V., Lecturer in Music (Composition), term compete, April 30, 1994
Hisey, P. Andrew, Lecturer in Piano Pedagogy, term complete, April 30, 1994


241




February Meeting, 1995


School of Public Health
Mohr, Ruth A., Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy, term complete,
April 30, 1994
UM-Flint School of Management
Cheslow, David A., Lecturer in Management, resigned
Retirement Memoirs
Ziyaeddin A. Akcasu, professor of nuclear engineering and macromolecular science and engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31,
1994, after an outstanding career.
Professor Akcasu received his M.S. degree from the Technical University of
Istanbul, Turkey, in 1948 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan
in 1963. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1963 as assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1965 and professor in 1968.
An extremely prolific researcher with an international reputation, Professor
Akcasu has authored over 95 articles and has contributed greatly to the fields of
nuclear reactor dynamics and statistical mechanics. His achievements in reactor
dynamics and noise analysis served as a foundation for the industry to begin to
understand the concept of stability in reactor operation. In the field of statistical
mechanics, Professor Akcasu is best known for improving our understanding of
the dynamics of polymer solutions. He was a principal in the development of the
generalized hydrodynamic equations and studied time correlations in simple
fluids. In 1984, Professor Akcasu and colleagues formulated the dynamics of
multi-component polymer solutions, which has been widely used since then in
the interpretation of light and neutron scattering experiments on such systems.
The formulation of a new method for studying the dynamics of multi-component
polymer mixtures has contributed significantly to the dynamics of polymer melts.
His achievements were recently recognized by his being honored with a symposium in his name at the 1994 American Chemical Society meeting.
Widely recognized as an excellent teacher, many of Professor Akcasu's
former students occupy key positions in science and industry in every corer of
the world. He has earned the College Excellence in Teaching Award and last
year was named outstanding teacher of the year by students in the Department
of Nuclear Engineering.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding contributions by naming Ziyaeddin A Akcasu professor emeritus of nuclear engineering
and macromolecular science and engineering.
Rolf G. Freter, professor of microbiology, retired from active faculty status
on January 31, 1995, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Hamburg, Germany, Professor Freter received his Ph.D. degree
in microbiology from Goethe University in Frankfurt in 1951 and completed a
postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Chicago in 1954. He joined the
faculty at Loyola University as an instructor in microbiology in 1954 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1956. Professor Freter moved to Jefferson
Medical College in Philadelphia as an assistant professor of microbiology in 1957
and was promoted to associate professor in 1959.


242




February Meeting, 1995


In 1965, Professor Freter came to the University of Michigan as professor of
microbiology in the Medical School. He contributed strength and vision to the
Department of Microbiology's teaching and research programs. During his
tenure at the University, Professor Freter taught various microbiology courses to
undergraduate, graduate, and medical students. He served on the editorial
boards of four prestigious medical research journals and was a reviewer on a
variety of study sections for the National Institutes of Health.
Professor Freter's major research interest is the microecology and local
immunity in the intestine. His imaginative and persistent research efforts have
resulted in the publication of 85 articles in scientific journals and 13 book chapters and monographs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for his
dedicated service by naming Rolf G. Freter professor emeritus of microbiology.
Paul W. Gikas, M.D., professor of pathology and assistant dean for admissions in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on December 31,
1994.
A native of Lansing, Dr. Gikas received both his AB. (1950) and M.D.
(1954) degrees from the University of Michigan. After completing a rotating
internship at Philadelphia General Hospital in 1955, he undertook a year of
residency training at the University of Michigan. He served with the U.S. Army
Medical Corps in Virginia from 1956-58, after which he returned to the University of Michigan to complete his residency.
Dr. Gikas joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in the
Department of Pathology in 1959. He was promoted to assistant professor in
1963, associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1969. He also served at the
Veterans Administration Hospital as chief of the laboratory service (1960-68),
part-time staff pathologist (1968-83), and consultant (1983-present). Within the
Department of Pathology, he has served as director of the Clinical Electron
Microscopy Unit (1977-82); director of the Residency Training Program
(1980-82); and director of the Autopsy Service (1983-87). From 1982-88, Dr. Gikas was faculty representative for intercollegiate athletics to the Big Ten
Conference and National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). During that
time, he served on several NCAA and Big Ten committees which addressed such
issues as drug abuse, alcohol awareness, drug testing, and safety standards.
Since 1990, Dr. Gikas has also served the Medical School as assistant dean for
admissions.
Dr. Gikas is an expert in the areas of renal pathology, urologic pathology,
electron microscopy, and autopsy pathology. He has played an important role in
the education of pathology residents, is the author of numerous scientific articles
and book chapters, and continues to participate actively in professional societies.
His many years of dedicated teaching, as well as his highly effective role as a
clinician in the Department of Pathology, represent enduring contributions that
will have an impact for years to come.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Paul W. Gikas
professor emeritus of pathology.


243




February Meeting, 1995


John H. Stephenson, Catherine B. Heller Professor of Art and former
acting dean of the School of Art, retired from active faculty status on December
31, 1994.
Professor Stephenson received his B.A degree from Iowa State University
in 1952 and his M.F.A degree from the Cranbrook Academy of Art in 1958. He
joined the faculty of the former College of Architecture and Design as an instructor in 1959 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate professor
in 1964, and professor in 1968. He was named Catherine B. Heller Professor of
Art in 1989. Professor Stephenson was also awarded an honorary doctorate from
Grand Valley State University in 1993.
During his tenure, Professor Stephenson taught beginning, intermediate,
advanced, and graduate ceramics and also participated in teaching courses in
two- and three-dimensional design in the freshman program. His dedication to
teaching and his rapport with students has resulted in a number of his students
having achieved high visibility in the field of ceramic art. Over the course of his
career, Professor Stephenson also taught at many other institutions in the
United States and abroad.
Professor Stephenson's research has gone beyond the boundaries of classical
tradition and opened up a contemporary approach to American ceramics. He has
received grants to travel and work in Japan and to study large scale ceramic
sculpture, explore ceramics and mixed media, and to study the use of color in
three dimensions. Professor Stephenson has participated in numerous workshops and symposia and in major exhibitions which traveled across the nation
and abroad. In 1965, he was awarded the city of Faenza (Italy) gold medal in
Concorso Internationale della Ceramica D'Arte. His work is included in major
private, corporate, and public collections, including the Everson Museum in
Syracuse, New York; the Cranbrook Museum of Art in Bloomfield Hills; the
Detroit Institute of Art; the Museum of Contemporary Crafts in New York City;
and the Faenza Museum in Italy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming John H. Stephenson the Catherine B. Heller Professor Emeritus of Art.
Memorial Statement
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on December 30, 1994, of Joan M. Keevil, associate professor
of dentistry.
Professor Keevil was born in Detroit, Michigan, on April 21, 1937. She
received her B.S. degree in dental hygiene in 1959, her M.P.H. degree in health
education in 1964, and her Ph.D. degree in higher education (administration) in
1973, all from the University of Michigan. She joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Dentistry as an instructor in 1966. She was promoted
to assistant professor in 1973 and associate professor in 1977. Professor Keevil
also served as assistant to the dean from 1973-90.
She was committed to the dental profession, which she served as teacher,
lecturer, author, and administrator. Professor Keevil was mentor and friend to
many. She also served as an active member of the University's Women's
Research Club.   Her memberships in professional societies included the


244




February Meeting, 1995


American Association of Dental Schools, American Association of Public Health
Dentistry, the American Dental Hygienists Association, the Michigan Dental Hygiene Association, the Washtenaw District Dental Hygiene Society, Omicron
Kappa Upsilon, and the Sigma Phi Alpha Dental Hygiene Honor Society.
Joan Keevil left an enduring mark on her students and colleagues, both
through her professional accomplishments and her personal qualities of modesty,
dedication, and quiet dignity. We mourn the loss of this distinguished scholar
and teacher, and our condolences go to her mother, Ivy Isabel, her sister, Diane
Sweeney, and her niece, Stacy Sweeney.
Degrees. Provost Whitaker submitted final degree lists for December 1994
commencements and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Henry Russel Award. Brinkley Messick, associate professor of anthropology, and Khalil Najafi, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer
science, were recommended as recipients of the Henry Russel Award for 1995.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by
Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Semi-Annual Report for Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund,
and Expendable Restricted Fund
The Regents received the Semi-Annual Report for the Designated Fund,
Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the six month
periods ending December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1993. Regent Power raised
the question as to whether it was really necessary for the Regents to receive this
report. Following some discussion, it was decided that a systematic review of all
reports should be prepared for the Board to determine whether they are of consequence, and if not, a recommendation should be made that they be discontinued.
It was decided that this semi-annual report should be included in that review.
Alternative Asset Investments (CMD Realty Investment Fund II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10 million to CMD Realty Investment
Fund II, L.P., recognizing that the University's pro rata share of the fees will
increase its capital commitment above the $10.0 million level and pending
favorable review of the documents for their legal acceptability by the general
counsel's office.
Angell/Haven Hall Connector Project
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised budget and authorized award of a construction
contract to the Walbridge Aldinger Company. Regent Newman abstained from
voting due to a conflict of interest.


245




February Meeting, 1995


University Health Service, Michigan Union, Michigan League, and
North Campus Commons
Regent McGowan moved approval of $26,500,000 in renovation projects for
the University Health Service, the Michigan Union, the Michigan League, and
North Campus Commons, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Deitch seconded the motion. Following some discussion, the vote was taken and
the motion was approved unanimously.
School of Social Work Building Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised budget for the School of Social Work Building
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract,
providing the project is within the budget.
University of Michigan Medical Center East Medical Campus Primary
Care Facility Project
President Duderstadt called on Mr. Douglas Hanna, University architect, to
present the proposed design of the East Medical Campus Primary Care Facility.
Mr. Hanna displayed maps indicating the site location and site plan for the facility, and described the access plan for the complex and the facility itself. He then
used schematic drawings to show the proposed floor plan, noting that the objectives were that the building should be easy to find and easy to find one's way
around. It should be friendly, welcoming, and human-scaled, with a residential
character. He concluded his presentation by unveiling a drawing of the building's exterior and describing how all of the features fit with the objectives that
the planners had in mind for the building.
There followed a lengthy discussion, during which several Regents expressed concerns about the proposed design. Mr. Hanna observed that the
architects had received input from a variety of sources and had worked hard to
develop the residential feel, noting that patients have found the residential
quality of the Briarwood health care facilities much more appealing than the
more institutional buildings at the Medical Center. Regent Power observed that
some Regents did not feel that the proposed design met this objective as well as it
might have.
Regent Deitch expressed concern about the process of architect selection and
design development and suggested that as a policy matter, the Regents examine
the optimum point in the design development process at which the Regents'
input can be considered most effectively. It was noted that since this would be
the first building in what will be a very large complex and would therefore set the
tone for future development of the site, it was important that the Regents feel
comfortable with it.
Following further discussion, it was decided to delay moving forward with
the design until such time as other facade alternatives could be presented, which
it was hoped could occur at the March meeting. Regent Newman reinforced
Regent Deitch's concern about the process, so that a means could be found to


246




February Meeting, 1995


avoid such a situation from happening in the future. President Duderstadt
cautioned against the Regents' getting involved in the process any earlier than
currently is the case, but agreed that a review of the process would be helpful.
He pointed out that this particular case was different from most, because it is the
first in a major new campus development which will set the tone for future
buildings.
University Hospital Emergency Department Expansion and Reorganization
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved expansion and renovation of the University Hospital
Emergency Department as described in the Regents Communication, submission
of a Certificate of Need application to the Michigan Department of Public Health,
and the appointment of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., as project architect for the
design.
University of Michigan Hospitals Department of Radiology Renovation
for Image Management and Commun     ications System
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for purchase and installation of a new image
management and communications system and necessary renovations in the
Department of Radiology, as described in the Regents Communication.
Purchase and Co-Development of a Replacement Inpatient Pharmacy
Computer System
Regent Power moved, Regent Horing seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, purchase and co-development of a Mediware Inpatient Pharmacy System, as described in the Regents Communication.
Purchase of a CPU upgrade for the Medical Center's IBM       ES/9000
Computer
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of a CPU upgrade for the Medical Center's IBM
ES/9000 computer, as described in the Regents' Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Dennison Building
VAV retrofit; 2) South Quadrangle Tunnel expansion joint replacements; 3)
Parking Services 1995 annual maintenance program; 4) North Campus roadway
reconstruction; 5) completion of space for OSEH chemical transfer facility in
Medical Science Research Building III; and 6) relocation of the Facial Cosmetic
Surgery Clinic.


247




February Meeting, 1995


Appointment of Robert Zucker, Ph.D. to the Chelsea Arbor Treatment
Center Board of Directors
On a motion by Regent Horing, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Robert Zucker, Ph.D. to the Chelsea
Arbor Treatment Center Board of Directors.
Purchasing Agreement with Valley View Farm
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved entering into a purchasing agreement with Valley View
Farm. Because the owner of Valley View Farm, Douglas D. Doop, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Valley View
Farm.
2.   The terms of the contract include that Valley View Farm provide services,
including the board and care of sheep, as required by the Department of
Reproductive Sciences at the following rates:
Board of sheep and goats                    $1.55/head/day
Newborn lambs (1 to 9 weeks)                $145.00
30 Kg lambs                                 $150.00
45 Kg lambs                                 $165.00
Over 50 Kg sheep                            $175.00
Time-dated pregnant sheep                   $350.00
500 ml units of blood                       $30.00/500 ml
The contract period begins March 1, 1995, and will continue for 34 months
through December 31, 1997, with an option to renew the contract up to two
consecutive one-year periods, providing service is satisfactory and agreement can
be reached on price, terms, and conditions. Annual price reviews are acceptable;
however they cannot exceed 5 percent of the original pricing or the Consumer
Price Index (CPI), whichever is lower.
Purchasing Contract with Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Rebus Planning Associates,
Inc. Because the owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Inc., Samuel J. Meisels, is
also a University employee, this contract falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
2.   The terms of the contract to support three University of Michigan research
grants include the purchase of the following from Rebus Planning Associates,
Inc.: 120 Work Sampling Reference sets @ $4,800 and 5,565 Student Materials
Packets @ $19,478, for a total of $24,278.
3.   Dr. Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of Rebus
Planning Associates, Inc.


248




February Meeting, 1995


UM-Ann Arbor Infrastructure Maintenance Fee (IMF)
Regent McFee moved approval of an increase of $35 per term in the existing
infrastructure maintenance fee, effective Spring term 1995, to provide the funds
necessary to cover the cost of debt service for the renovation of the University
Health Service Building, the Michigan Union, the Michigan League, and North
Campus Commons. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
In the discussion that followed, Regent McFee expressed her support of the
fee. Regent Baker observed that since its inception, the fee had risen from $50 to
the proposed $185, and that he objected both to the increase and to the purpose
of the fee, noting that it is turning into a fixed cost of attending the University.
President Duderstadt responded that historically, these costs had been assumed
by the state, but that the state was no longer allocating funds for this purpose.
Further discussion ensued on the purpose of the infrastructure maintenance
fee. Regent Newman commented that only a portion of the University's budget
comes from the state and wondered why we always look to the students to fund
increased costs when the University receives funds from a variety of sources. She
questioned whether the University's management of its funds could be improved
or whether public/private partnerships could be introduced to reduce the reliance
on student fees.
Regent Deitch stated that he is absolutely in support of the fee increase,
since the Regents have the fiduciary responsibility to see that the physical plant
meets the needs of the people served by the institution. He also believes that
students as well have a moral obligation to ensure that there are first class
facilities for both present and future generations, and this fee can be viewed as
students' contribution to that.
Regent Power observed that the old paradigm of running a public university
is changing, and that other ways need to be found to achieve the resource base
needed to maintain the University's excellence. He believes that the current
Board and successor Boards have a responsibility to explore the notion of a transformation and an altered paradigm for running a great research university. He
supports the fee, but believes that time is running out on the institution's ability
to function according to the existing paradigm.
Regent Newman stated that she would not support the fee because she has
not received answers to her questions about why it is necessary in the context of
the overall budget.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion to increase
the infrastructure maintenance fee by $35 per term was approved, with Regents
Deitch, Homing, McFee, Power, and Varner in favor, and Regents Newman and
Baker opposed. Regent McGowan was not present when the vote was taken.


249




February Meeting, 1995


Implementation of Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts and
Agreements, FY 94
The Regents received information on implementation of the Regents' Policy
on Research Grants, Contracts and Agreements for FY 1994.
Change in Name of Resource and Community Science Department at
ULM-Flint
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the UM-Flint Resource and Community Science Department to the Earth and Resource Science Department, effective March 1, 1995.
UM-Flint 1996-97 Academic Calendar
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1996-97 academic calendar for the University of
Michigan-Flint, as described in the Regents Communication.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, Regent Homing moved, Regent Deitch seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical staff membership.
Lawyers Club Board of Governors
Regent Varner nominated Regent Deitch to replace former Regent Brown
on the Lawyers Club Board of Governors. Regent Fischer seconded the nomination, and it was approved unanimously.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m.
The next meeting will be held on March 16 and 17, 1995. Regents' expenses for
December 1994 totaled $1,278.51 and for the January 1995 totaled $1,013.35.
Z- \^^^-\j     -
iE jjor^   sen
Interim Secretary of the University


250




MARCH MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 16, 1995
The Regents met at 1:30 p.m. in the Music Room at the Henry Ford EstateFair Lane. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch,
Homing, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Varner. Secretary Jensen, Executive
Vice President Womack, and Provost Whitaker were also present, as were Vice
Presidents Harrison, Hartford, and Kinnear and Chancellors Nelms and Renick.
Vice President Neal was absent; Regent Power arrived at about 3:00 p.m.
President's Report
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and expressed to Chancellor Renick the Regents' appreciation for his campus' hosting of the Regents'
Meeting. He then presented his report, which focused on two issues: the various
rankings of the quality of the University's academic programs and the alliances
that have been forming among American universities to grapple with the issue of
institutional change.
Rankings of Quality. President Duderstadt observed that there are a
number of publications that rate higher education institutions on various measures and focused on the annual U.So News and World Report issue that ranks
America's best colleges, particularly with respect to undergraduate education.
He observed that while the University of Michigan's overall ranking was 21st, it
ranked 9th in academic quality, and that the weight given to some of the measures used to determine the overall rankings (student selectivity and financial
resources per student) are biased against large public institutions.  Some
important attributes are not even considered when compiling the rankings, such
as breadth and diversity of programs and resources such as libraries, computers,
laboratories, etc.
The graduate school rankings reveal the same disparities as the undergraduate rankings, with academic quality higher than overall rankings in most
programs. President Duderstadt observed that all of the surveys confirm that
the University of Michigan ranks, along with Harvard, Stanford, and Berkeley,
among the finest universities in the world in most areas. This is the case despite
the fact that our expenditures per student are one-third that of Harvard and
Stanford and that the University of Michigan receives one-half the level of state
appropriation received by the University of California at Berkeley.
Vice President Harrison and Provost Whitaker elaborated on various aspects of the rankings and agreed that they are biased against large public
institutions.
Instttittional Change. President Duderstadt reported that the Big Ten
universities have made significant commitments to cooperative ventures such as
merging their library systems. They are also setting up conferences to study the


251




March Meeting, 1995


impact of technology on instruction, the relationship between the federal government and higher education institutions with regard to research, and all of the
issues surrounding the "faculty contract" (faculty appointments, tenure, promotion, retirement, etc.). He observed that he has just assumed the chairmanship
of the Big Ten and also discussed other alliances that are being formed to cope
with changes that are occurring nation-wide in higher education.
Provost's Report
Dean Searches. Provost Whitaker updated the Regents on the status of
the four dean searches currently underway and noted that an additional search
would be starting in the next few months,
Budget. Provost Whitaker observed that the federal government currently
provides $55 million in indirect costs related to federal research contracts. The
reimbursement rate is being renegotiated and will probably be less than the
current rate.
Tuition. Provost Whitaker reported that no proposals have been prepared
at this point, but that the challenge is to keep the strong commitment to
affordability and accessibility, while maintaining the quality that is the
University's trademark.
Regent Newman commented that in the event that a tuition increase were
to be recommended in July, she would like to be briefed far in advance about the
reasons that a tuition increase would be required to make up any shortfall.
State appropriation. Regent Varner questioned how the University
planned to respond to the fact that the state legislature was probably going to
treat the state institutions differently with respect to appropriations, which
would result in less favorable treatment for the University of Michigan and more
favorable treatment for Michigan State University. It was also noted that the
higher education appropriations committee had just voted to reduce the University's appropriation by an additional $8.3 million because the out-of-state enrollment had exceeded 30 percent.
Provost Whitaker explained how the in-state/out-of-state enrollment calculations are arrived at during the admissions process and President Duderstadt
explained how the committee had erred in arriving at the $8.3 million figure.
There was further discussion about the complexities involved in maintaining the
legislature's 30/70 in-state/out-of-state ratio. It was noted that limiting the
number of out-of-state students had negative effects on the other state institutions because the recent decrease in the number of Michigan high school graduates has decreased the available pool for all state institutions.
Provost Whitaker observed that in response to the legislature's actions, the
University now needs to ensure that each legislator has the appropriate information about all of the issues involved. He also responded to other questions raised
by the Regents and said that he would be reporting in future months with more
details about the status of the 1995-96 budget currently being prepared.


252




March Meeting, 1995


Vice President Harrison observed that federal legislators are currently
contemplating changes in federal student financial aid that would be quite
detrimental to students.
Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack gave a presentation on the status of the
following nine projects, all of which are expected to be completed within the next
24 months: Angell Hall Renovation; Angell/Haven Connector; East Engineering
Building Renovation; C.C. Little Building Renovation; Randall Laboratory
Addition; Harold T. and Vivian B. Shapiro Library Addition and Renovation;
Engineering Center Building; Integrated Technology Instruction Center; Hospital Cancer and Geriatrics Centers and North Entrance Parking Structure. These
projects represent a total cost of $260 million, one of the largest construction
programs in the University's history.
Regent McFee said that it would be helpful to have a summary of these projects prepared, which would break down the cost and source of funding for each
one.
Internships and Cooperative Learning at the UM-Dearborn
President Duderstadt called on Chancellor Renick to introduce a presentation on the internship and co-op programs at the UM-Dearborn. He recognized
Mr. Dennis Drean, Ms. Patricia Jones, and Ms. Charlotte Whitney, who administer the programs on the Dearborn campus, and then introduced four panelists to
describe their experiences with the program. The panelists included Ms. Amy
Kurczewski, Ms. Marlene Konkoly, and Ms. Cheryl Bringley, students who had
completed intern or co-op placements at area businesses and found them
extremely valuable, and Mr. John Bundridge, director of human resources at
Deloitte Touche, who spoke of how the program benefits businesses who participate in it.
Following the presentations, the panelists responded to questions and comments from the Regents.
Personnel Appointment
Because the Regents were meeting on the Dearborn campus, Chancellor
Renick requested that the Regents consider his request for approval of the
appointment of Susan C. Skramstad as vice-chancellor for institutional
advancement at this time. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Susan C.
Skramstad as vice chancellor for institutional advancement at the University of
Michigan- Dearborn.
Living/Learning Communities on the Ann Arbor Campus
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Hartford to lead a discussion
of issues surrounding student housing. These issues include aging facilities; the
different needs of the current generation of students; developing closer ties to
academic units; strategic planning for the next century; food/dining services in


253




March Meeting, 1995


the halls; and development of a sense of community in the halls. Vice President
Hartford called on Mr. David Foulke, interim director of housing, and Mr. David
Schoem, assistant dean for undergraduate education in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, to lead a discussion of these issues.
Mr. Schoem described the various living/learning programs already in place,
as well as plans under consideration for enhancing the living/learning experiences for all students. He, Mr. Foulke, and Vice President Hartford then
responded to questions and comments by the Regents about residence halls and
living/learning programs.
There followed a 20-minute break, after which the meeting reconvened to
hear Public Comments at 4:10 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Vimcent Keenan and Anne Marie
Ellison, students, on the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
The meeting then adjourned until the following dayo
Friday, March 17, 1995
The Regents met at 9:40 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Jensen and Provost Whitaker were also
present, as were Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison,
Hartford, Kinnear and Neal, and eal,  Chancellors Nelms and Renick.
Annual Report of Investments
President Duderstadt called on Executive Vice President Womack, who
called on Ms. Maggie Blakelock of Cambridge Associates and Mr. Norman
Herbert, university treasurer, to present the report of investments for the year
ending December 31, 1994.
Mr. Herbert reported that 1994 was an unrewarding year in the public
markets, which underscored the need for the University's strategy of investing a
significant portion of its long-term funds in alternative assets which are not
correlated with stocks and bonds. Nevertheless, 1994 investment results for the
University's funds were solid, with a -1.8 percent return for the University Endowment Fund (UEF); -2.1 percent and -2.0 percent, respectively, for the Donor
Pooled Income Fund and separately managed Charitable Remainder Trusts; 0.8
percent for the University Investment Pool; and 0.1 percent for Veritas.
Mr. Herbert called on Ms. Blakelock, who distributed discussion materials
from Cambridge Associates, Inc., to which she referred in her remarks. She
stated that her two objectives were to review the University's investment strategy and details of the 1994 performance and to discuss a proposal for a new
investment opportunity.


254




March Meeting, 1995


Ms. Blakelock reviewed the strategies with respect to asset allocation,
common stock management, and alternative assets. She reported that the value
of the endowment on December 31, 1994, was $1.115 billion, which was up
$255.6 million from the previous year. She highlighted major investment
changes that had been made during the past year and compared the University's
equity performance with the S&P 500 and with other indicators. She pointed out
that the returns for alternative assets were above those of the S&P 500, while
common stock managers underperformed the S&P 500 and the bond markets
had a very disappointing year. However, for the past four years, the University's
average annual returns of 12 percent per year had outperformed the market
benchmark by 140 basis points per year.
Following some discussion about the University's investment performance
and strategies, Ms. Blakelock turned to a discussion of emerging market debt.
Emerging Markets Debt Investments
Ms. Blakelock noted that the Regents had before them an action request for
the appointment of Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo as investment manager for
emerging markets debt. She noted that Latin American countries are the greatest sources of emerging market debt investments and observed that Brady bonds
are the most liquid segment of emerging market debt. She described Brady
bonds and further described the investment rationale, risks, and current market
environment for emerging market debt and responded to questions from the
Regents.
Regent Baker commented that he was not persuaded that with respect to
Mexico, the benefits would outweigh the risks of this type of investment. He also
pointed out that the dollar was at risk at this time. There were other comments
related to the risks involved in investing in this type of market. Ms. Blakelock
noted that the emerging markets team at Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo is quite
experienced in this area. Regent Power observed that this proposal is about
emerging market debt, a class of investments; it is not about investing in Mexico
per se.
Following further discussion, Regent Newman moved the appointment of
Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Company as investment manager for emerging markets debt. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved by a
vote of seven to one, with Regent Baker opposed.
UM Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report
Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of University of Michigan Hospitals,
presented the UM Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report for the fiscal year
ending 1993-94. This report covered three major components of financial
performance (profitability, liquidity, and capital structure), as well as patient
activity, while comparing the Hospitals' performance to the average for three
types of hospitals (Standard & Poor's "AA" rated hospitals, teaching hospitals,
and all hospitals) for the past five years' average and for FY 1993-94. The UM
Hospitals' performance was favorable in nearly ever measure.


255




March Meeting, 1995


Leasing Agreement with Plymouth Road Partnership
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously authorized the University's entering into a two year renewable
assumption of lease agreement with Plymouth Road Partnership. Because Dr.
Gena R. Pahucki is both a fill partner in the Plymouth Road Partnership and a
University of Michigan employee (clinical associate in the Medical School), this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Plymouth Road
Partnership, partly owned by Dr. Pahucki.
2.   Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is two (2) years. The medical office is located at 3250 Plymouth Road, Suite 201, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
The rental rate is $16.50 per square foot, $19,734 annually. The medical center
will lease the space and place appropriate clerks, medical office assistants,
nurses, and physicians necessary to provide primary care services.
3.   Dr. Pahucki's pecuniary interest arises from her partial ownership of Plymouth
Road Partnership. Plymouth Road Partnership is receiving revenues generated
by the leasing of the property to the University.
Leasing Agreement with Chelsea Internal Medicine Partnership
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved an assumption of lease agreement with Chelsea Internal
Medicine Partnership. This agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute, because two of the partners in the partnership, Dr. Steven A
Yarows and Dr. Martin P. Gleespen, are also clinical instructor faculty members
in the University's Medical School. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Chelsea Internal
Medicine Partnership, owned by Dr. Yarows and Dr. Gleespen.
2.   Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is seven (7) years. During
that time, the University will lease property located at 128 Van Buren Street,
Chelsea, Michigan. The rental rate is $13.10 per square foot, for 8000 square
feet, $104,766 annually. The medical center will lease the space and place
appropriate clerical medical office assistants, nurses, and physicians to provide
primary care.
3.   Dr. Yarows' and Dr. Gleespen's pecuniary interest arises from their ownership
of Chelsea Internal Medicine Partnership. Chelsea Internal Medicine Partnership is receiving revenues generated by the leasing of the property to the
University.
Leasing Agreement with Chelsea Internal Medicine Consultants, P.C.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a five-year equipment lease with an option to purchase
agreement with Chelsea Internal Medicine Consultants, P.C.         Because Dr.
Steven A Yarows is both a University of Michigan employee and an owner of
Chelsea Internal Medicine Consultants, P.C., this agreement falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:


256




March Meeting, 1995


1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Chelsea Internal
Medicine Consultants, P.C., partly owned by Dr. Yarows.
2.   Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is five (5) years. During
that time, the University will lease equipment located at 128 Van Buren Street,
Chelsea, Michigan, for $1,860.50 per month with an option to purchase at
appraised price minus the lease payments.
3.   Dr. Yarows' pecuniary interest arises from his partial ownership of Chelsea
Internal Medicine Consultants, P.C. Chelsea Internal Medicine Consultants is
receiving revenues generated by the leasing of the property to the University.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Public
Health Institute (MPHI)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
Michigan Public Health Institute (MPHI), under which MPHI will purchase testing services to be performed by a faculty member in the Department of Psychiatry. Because two members of the board of directors of MPHI, Alan W. Steiss and
Robert Gray, are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.       The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and MPHII.
2.   Terms of the agreements will be consistent with University policy regarding
routine testing. The testing project is proposed over a 16-month period at a
total cost of $49,050.
3.   Alan W. Steiss and Robert Gray have no proprietary interest in and will receive
no compensation directly from MPHI.
UMMC East Medical Campus Primary Care Facility Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Doug Hanna to lead a
discussion that would give the architect some direction in revising the design of
the facility.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Mr. Hanna noted that at
the point that architectural renderings are presented to the Regents, only 15 percent of the design activity has taken place. At that point, if refinements are
necessary, charges usually aren't increased.  However, if major changes are
required, additional fees would be involved.
Mr. Hanna began by displaying the rendering that had been presented the
previous month and reviewed the design criteria. He then displayed computer
generated graphics of how the building would look from different vantage points
and reviewed the renderings of the site plan for Zone 1 of the East Medical
Campus.
Regents Newman and McGowan pointed out that since the purpose of this
discussion was to obtain input into the type of building the Regents would like to
see, there was little value in reviewing the building that the Regents had already
expressed their dissatisfaction with.


257




March Meeting, 1995


Regent Deitch expressed that one of the criteria for any building should be
"make it great." He observed that the current administration could take great
pride in the building and rebuilding that has been taking place on the campus in
recent years. As major builders and developers, the University needs to have
building designs that will withstand the test of time in terms of aesthetic appeal.
With the University's buying power and commitment to excellence, it ought to
search out the best architects and the architects with whom it already has
relationships and demand the greatness in that area that we demand in every
other area. He concluded that this particular building does not meet that
standard, and he doesn't support it. In response to a question, he stated that
this project should be started over again.
Mr. Forsyth observed that the Medical Center needs to be able to compete
on cost; and that the time frame envisioned for this building is about 20 years,
after which it would be replaced. The Medical Center's concerns about cost
effectiveness have had an influence on the design.
Regent Deitch responded that he was not yet convinced that there is a clear
trade-off between good design and cost. His opinion was that the current design
is reminiscent of a "speculative, suburban, medical center building." But the fact
that the building was also a part of one of the world's great institutions led him
to the belief that "we might be able to do better."
Regent Baker concurred, noting that this building was to be the first of six,
setting the standard for all of them; therefore, if there was dissatisfaction with
this one, there would also be with the others. As is true with the North Campus
and the current Medical Campus, it is important to have a plan for unity in the
materials, colors, and overall scheme before the first building is designed.
Regent McGowan observed that "great design does not necessarily need to
incur great cost." As this building is the symbol of the commitment the University is making to medical training and patient care, she said that "we should
expect the same priority, the same pride, the same excellence, and the same
commitment to excellence of service from the symbol as to the service delivered."
President Duderstadt concluded the discussion by requesting that some
alternative designs be developed and that the architects be challenged to create a
significant piece of architecture.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Regent Baker requested that the direct quotation of Regent
Power's remarks in the minutes of the February 1995 meeting be revised so as to
summarize the remarks according to the Regents' policy, rather than quoting
them in their entirety. Regent Power seconded the motion, stating that the
minutes should reflect that the entire remarks are on file in the Office of the
Secretary. The motion was approved unanimously.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. Regent McFee
reiterated her request for a summary document listing all current construction


258




March Meeting, 1995


projects, their costs, and funding sources, noting that this, combined with a
video, would serve also as a good public relations piece.
Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current research for the month of February 1995.
Statement by Regent Baker. Regent Baker read from a prepared statement about a symposium          to be held April 19, 1995, sponsored by the University
of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution, whose purpose is to examine the
issues surrounding the Enola Gay Exhibit at the Smithsonian Institution. A
copy of the remarks is on file in the Office of the Secretary.
Regent Baker observed that there had been a bitter dispute between Smithsonian archivists and Veterans groups about how to portray the issues surrounding  the   decision   to  drop   atomic   weapons on       Japan    in  1945   as part of the
Smithsonian's exhibit of the Enola Gay bomber which had dropped the atomic
bombs. The University has planned a symposium                  to explore and discuss those
issues.
Regent Baker observed that historians and scholars often disagree about the
ramifications of given historical events.         In the case of World War II, however,
forces were held at bay and defeated which would have destroyed freedom                   "as we
knew   it then and know it now," and the people who fought in that war also have
strongly held views.       Regent Baker requested that veterans groups and their
supporters be provided fill access to and full participation in the symposium.
Regent Deitch left the meeting at this point, at 11:10 a.m.
Voluntary support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of gifts
received for the month of February 1995.
AT&T Global Information Solutions, West Columbia, South Carolina
for the HPS Architecture Fund and the Industrial Partners of Computer Science
Engineering  Fund  in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................................................................25,000
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for  research   in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................50,333
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science,
and  the Arts, and  the Institute  of Science  and  Technology........................................................................120,619
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for the American Cyanamid Graduate Student Support Fund in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies and for employee matching gifts................................................6,525
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for  research   in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 9,350
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for scholarships and  fellowships in  the  College  of Pharmacy.......................................................................24,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research   in   th e  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 18,750
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1 7 1 8 37
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business Administration..........600,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Walter Graves Scholarship in the College of Engineering............................................................ 30,000
Arkwright Foundation, Inc., Waltham, Massachusetts
for  em ployee   m atch in g   gift s.....................................................................................................5.................................................. 050


259




March Meeting, 1995


Theodore and Mina Bargman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room                    in the Law     School...........................................25,000
Bell Atlantic, Arlington, Virginia
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n.............................................................................................................................................................................. 15
Bell Communications Research, Inc., Livingston, New Jersey
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the College of
E n g in e e rin g..............................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
W. J. and C. W. Bogaard Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the William     J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund in the Law                School......................................................15,000
Cadence Design Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for  research    in  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................................28,917
Calumet Abrasives Company, Inc., East Chicago, Indiana
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................7.........7,500
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for the Cancer Research Institute in the Medical School.................................................................................5,083
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for chemical engineering support and the Chevron Fellowship in the College of
E n g in e e rin g.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 7,0 0 0
Cline, Davis & Mann, Inc., New York, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical School...............................................................................................................000
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
74 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for research in the Medical School and for the Ralph F. and Elsie G. Colton
L ead ersh  ip   S ch olarsh ip........................................................................................................................................................1,8 16,70 0
Commission on Preservation and Access, Washington, DC
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies.................................................................50000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
400 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., common stock
for the University Library and the University Musical Society...............................................................11,850
Simon A. Courtade Estate
for the Predoctoral Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham                     School of Graduate Studies... 102,540
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., Rye, New York
for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........30,000
Dekalb Genetics Foundation, DeKalb, Illinois
for  em ployee     m atch in g   gifts...................................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Robert J. Donia, Fort Worth, Texas
for the CREES/IPPS Internship Program and the Working Group on War and PeaceSoutheast Europe Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
the Michigan Historical Collection in the Bentley Historical Library...................................................20,100
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for  research     in  the  College  of Engineering............................................................................................................... 27,000
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the Models of Sensory and Motor Neuropathies Research Fund in the School of
Public Health.......................................................................................................................................................................................70000
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts................................................... 27,013
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
Administration and for support in the College of Pharmacy........................................................................65,000
Duke Power Company Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Lois A. Watkins Herbert Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
L iterature, Science,     and    the  A rts................................................................................................................................ 250,000
Dupont Merck Pharmaceutical Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Biochemistry of Keratinocyte Activation Fund in the Medical School...............................13,500
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A d m in istra tio n............................................................................................................................................................................... 15,0 0 0
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................................................................................5000
Eleanor and Edsel Ford Fund, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan -D earb  orn.........................................................................................................................................................................3 0,0 0 0
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, for the Museum of Art
Special Exhibitions Fund, and for special events support at the University of
M  ichigan  -D earborn................0................................................................................................................................................ 173,000


260




March Meeting, 1995


Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering,
for fellowships and other support in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, for the
Ann Arbor Flower Show in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
the Museum       of Art Friends' Benefit, and the University Musical Society................................. 239,000
Stephen E. Frank, Juno Beach, Florida
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..........................5,000
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Center for the Education of Women..................................................................................30,000
Arthur M. Friedman, Palos Verdes Estates, California
for the Arthur Andersen Faculty Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.........5,000
Fruehauf Foundation, St. Clair Shores
for the Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship in the School of Business Administration
and for the Marian W. and Ernest A. Jones Conducting Scholarship in the School
o f   M u sic.................................................................................................................................................................................................5 7 5,1 0 0
General Electric Company Corporate Offices, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program                     in the School of Business
A d m in istratio n........................................0                                                       00...........................................................................................................................................15
General Motors Corporation Staff Accounting Services, Detroit
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund, the IPOCSEGeneral Motors Machine Learning Fund, and the Research in Knowledge Based
Design Fund in the College of Engineering........................................35,000
Nettie R. Gillette Trust
for the Kristoffer M. Gillette Fund in the School of Art.....................................................................................5,000
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Kalvin and Eileen Grove Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...............................20,000
Sheila Ford Hamp, Dearborn
for  research     in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Vira I. Heinz Endowment, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Vira I. Heinz Endowment in the School of Education.....................................................................50,000
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for  the  H olden    Fund  in   the  M edical School............................................................................................................. 400,000
IBM Canada, Ltd., Markham, Ontario, Canada
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering..................25,000
IBM Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Associates Program         in the School of Business Administration............................................15,000
Stanley Imerman Memorial Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room                  in the Law School Library........................25,000
Joseph and Edythe Jackier Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room                  in the Law School Library....................... 10,000
Jackson Community Foundation, Jackson
for  research     in   the  School  of  E ducation.........................................................................................................................17,604
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research   in  the  Institute  for  Social Research.................................................................................................. 17,251
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for  research     in   the   L aw   School......................................................................................................................................... 509,466
Barbara B. Kempe, Ann Arbor
for chemical engineering scholarships in the College of Engineering...................................................10,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for the William     W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship in the Law              School.....................................10,000
Konrad R. Kruger, Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rt s................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 5, 0 00
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for  research     in   the  Institute  for  Social Research...................................................................................................25,000
Katherine Ling Estate
for  the   K atherine  Ling    Scholarship...................................................................................................................................90,000
Susan C. Longo, Denton, Texas
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................................................................5,300
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.....................................................................200,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Schools of Education and Business Administration..........................................284,750
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................13,750
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research     in   the  M edical  S ch ool.....................................................................................................................................25,000


261




March Meeting, 1995


Elsie G. Marshall Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................................................636,457
May Department Stores Company Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering..............................................5,000
Sydney L. Mayer, Armonk, New York
for the Mayer-Oriel Exchange Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................................................5,5 0 0
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Middle East Program Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.......................................................................................................................................................................................4 5 0,0 0 0
Michelin Americas Research & Development Corporation, Greenville, South Carolina
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................          5,500
Michigan Council for Arts and Cultural Affairs, Midland
for  the    U niversity    M usical  Society....................................................................................................................................9,800
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for  support    in   the  M edical   School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Mitsubishi Gas & Chemical of Japan, Ann Arbor
for the Polymer Alloys Fund in the College of Engineering............................................................. 13,000
Modicon, Inc., North Andover, Massachusetts
for the Bipolar Transistors Fund in the College of Engineering...............................................               30,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for  research      in   the   M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 12,500
NSK Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, the Museum of Art Friends' Benefit, and
for    em p loyee    m atch in g   gifts.................................................................................................................................................... 10,250
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................25,4 13
National Organization for Hearing Research, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for  research      in   the  M edical  S ch ool........................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Nnamdi Victor Ozobia, Lagos, Nigeria
for the Loyal Crew         Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................................................5,000
Mary T. Padzieski Trust
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..........................................................................................10,000
Marlin Pemberton Estate
for the Marlin H. Pemberton Memorial Scholarship for Athletic and Academic
Excellence in the Department of Athletics............................................................................................................... 152,967
David B. Post Estate
for support in the Medical School and unrestricted support of the University
o f   M ich ig a n............................................................................................................................................................................................1 0,0 0 0
Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Boulder, Colorado
for the Vical Gift Fund in the Medical School..........................................................................................................50,000
Pauline B. Richards Estate
for scholarships and student aid in the College of Engineering in memory of
Donald A. Richards.........................................................................................................................................................................75,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Integrated Pre-Medical Scholarship in the Medical School................9,502
Ronald W. Rosenberg, Bloomfield Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics.................................................................................... 10,200
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................. 37,858
Saline Construction Company, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................................................. 10,000
R. Loene and Lenna M. Saxton Trust
for  supp  ort  in   the   S chool  of  M usic........................................................................................................................................ 7,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Sonoma, California
104,789 shares of various corporate common stocks for the Donald R. Shepherd
Chair in Conducting in the School of Music and for Robert and Marjorie Shepherd
Women's Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....................................................................................273,630
Rosellen E. Siegel Estate
for the Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the School of Education.................................................55,000
Simmons Foundation, Dearborn
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.............................................................................5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School..............10,201
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Dean William Haber Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts......................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 0,0 0 0


262




March Meeting, 1995


Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support in the Department of Athletics................................................................................20000
Toshiba America, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program                in the School of Business
A d m in istration..................................................................................................................................................................................15,000
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for  support in  the  School of Business Adm     inistration..........................................................................................5,000
John F. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
for the RKO Colloquium Series Fund, the Chihiro Kikuchi Scholarship and other
support in the College of Engineering, for support in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the Museum          of Art, and the University Musical Society.......13,100
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for the UMI Information Management Fellowship in the School of Information
and Library Studies and for the University Musical Society........................................................................25,100
University of Colorado Foundation, Boulder, Colorado
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development...........................................................50,000
University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, Colorado
for  research  in  the  School  of  E ducation......................................................................................................................102,945
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group
for support in the School of Dentistry and for Almunae Council Scholarships in
th e   A lu m n i  A sso ciation..................................................................................................................................................................6,4 5 0
Helen P. VanArnam Estate
for the Helen P. VanArnam        Fund in the Medical School.........................................................................1,000,000
Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
297 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock for support in the Horace H.
R ackham     School  of  G raduate  Studies............................................................................................................................. 15,555
Jeannette Badger Varnum Trust
for undergraduate student aid at the University of Michigan.......................................................................5,000
David L. VerLee, Holland
981 shares of Republic Bancorp, Inc., common stock
for the Ophthalmic Research Endowment in the Medical School............................................................10,301
Vical, San Diego, California
for  the  V ical G ift  Fund  in   the  M edical School..........................................................................................................50,000
Warner Books, Inc., New York, New York
for the Men's Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.................................................25,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Dentistry, for the Cancer Center and the Burn
Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School, and for the
Holden Perinatal Gift Fund, the University of Michigan Hospitals..........................................................8,286
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration...................................100,000
Lloyd E. Williams, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for  support  of  th e   L aw   S chool............................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research  in  the  Institute  of Public  Policy  Studies.........................................................................................75,000
William F. Wolff III, New York, New York
770 shares of Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up Companies common stock
for the Phyllis and William Wolff Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts..........................................................................................................................................................................................2 5,1 7 0
Zatkoff Seals & Packings, Farmington
for  scholarships  in  the  D epartm ent  of Athletics.....................................................................................................10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-m-kind were received:
Paul A. Adams, Flint
periodicals titled "Plant Physiology4, volumes 84-97 for the University of Michigan-Flint
Library
Norm Anschutz, East Tawas
14 Civil War letters written by Karl H. Anschutz dated between 1862-1863 for the Clements
Library
Apple Computers, Southfield
13 computers and various related equipment for the Michigan Union and for the University of
Michigan-Flint Academic Computing Center
John C. Dann, Dexter
various books and periodicals and a collection of 53 manuscript letters written by R. N.
Hastings dated 1852-1853 for the Clements Library


263




March Meeting, 1995


Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
a collection of manuscript Americana and two manuscript gifts: a letter written by General
John J. Pershing to General W. C. Carter dated January 29, 1903, and a collection of ca. 200
handwritten sermons written by William Rafferty dated early 1800s for the Clements Library
General Motors Technical Center, Warren
a filament winding machine for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
Kathleen Y. Gildner, Clarkston
56 individual issues of Physical Therapy and 37 individual issues of Journal of Orthopaedic and
Sports Therapy for the physical therapy department
Thomas L. Harris, Highland Park, Illinois
562 jazz LPs including 48 multiple sets for the School of Music
Marvin D. Hicks Estate
two violins, one Saxony circa 1860 and one labelled G. B. Porter, two nickel mounted stamped
violin bows and one unstamped, and one leather-covered double violin case for the School of
Music
Ann M. Leidy, Ann Arbor
a portion of the value of a Swiss music box in a table form cabinet for the School of Music
James H. Mulchay, St. Petersburg, Florida
a portion of the value of a Swiss music box in a table form cabinet for the School of Music
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
a Varian HPLC pump with filters and chromatography columns for the University of MichiganDearborn Department of Natural Sciences
Clyde Pearsall, Davison
an Invacare electric wheelchair with tilt, recline, and a ventilator tray for Mott Physical
Therapy
John Reznikoff, Stamford, Connecticut
the papers of Joseph P. Tumulty, secretary to Woodrow Wilson, for the Clements Library
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
492 black and white photos, 1725 color slides, 89 publication reprints, 600 text pages, 170
interleave sheets, and 1214 protective sleeves in 27 binders for the history of art department
Layne Taggart, St. Clair Shores
a Snug Seat Wizard Orthoses and wheeled mobility frame with a ventilator tray for Mott
Physical Therapy
Vogt's Flowers, Inc., Flint
floral arrangements and decorative materials used during October 1994 inauguration week
activities for the University of Michigan-Flint
Ronald 0. Warner, Flint
a painting by Swedish artist Alf Wallender for the University of Michigan-Flint library
Joan D. Willson, Albuquerque, New Mexico
antiquarian medical books for the Taubman Medical Library
Clarence Wolf, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
21 paintings by Yarnall Abbott for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor              John B. Leidy, Jr., Dexter
Michihiko Akiyama, Ann Arbor              Peter J. Leidy, Madison, WI
Elizabeth Leidy Arsenault, Ann Arbor      James H. Mulchay, Jr., Ann Arbor
Mrs. John Arthos, Ann Arbor               Kathryn Mulchay, Cooper City, FL
George R. Bingham, Dearborn               Kathryn Leidy Murray, Morganton, NC
Carex Health Care Products, Newark, NJ    Pacifichitech, Salt Lake City, UT
Thomas I. Dolan, Kalamazoo                Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, NY
Karen Eisley, Dexter                      Andrew Smith, Ann Arbor
Guardian Products, Inc., Arleta, CA       James A. Sprowl, Winnetka, IL
Carol J. Hossler, Ann Arbor               C. Clair Stevens, Ypsilanti
Invacare Corporation, Commerce Township   Ellen W. Wilhite, Shelburne, VT
Kenneth Leach, Brattleboro, VT            Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, PA
Provost's Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted personnel actions and
personnel reports. There were no retirements or deaths reported to the Regents
this month, and there were no actions with respect to degrees.


264




March Meeting, 1995


Provost Whitaker noted that the personnel actions include five individuals
nominated for distinguished University professorships, which is the most signal
recognition of the accomplishments of some of the most distinguished faculty.
Executive Vice President Womack observed that the recommendations include
the appointment of Mr. Randy J. Harris as associate vice president for finance,
effective May 19, 1995, to succeed Mr. Chandler Matthews.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Baker, Wayne E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, September 1, 1995
Margolis, Benjamin L., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, March 17, 1995
Shewach, Donna S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, March 17, 1995
Yang, Ralph T., Ph.D., Professor of Chemical Engineering and Chair, Department of Chemical
Engineering, five-year term, July 1, 1995
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective April 1, 1995
Lim, Linda Y., from Adjunct Associate Professor of Business Administration and Lecturer in
Business Administration, to Associate Professor of Business Economics, five-year term
Ulrich, David 0., from Adjunct Associate Professor and Director, Human Resource Executive
Programs, School of Business Administration, to Professor of Business Administration,
five-year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gingerich, Philip D., reappointed Director, Museum of Paleontology, three-year term,
July 1, 1995
Jacquez, John A., Professor Emeritus of Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Biostatistics,
returned to active status, one-year term, March 1, 1995
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Achenbaum, W. Andrew, from Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Deputy Director and Research Scientist, Institute of Gerontology, to
Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Acting
Director and Research Scientist, Institute of Gerontology, six-month term,
September 1, 1995
Brewer, George J., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, and Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of Human Genetics,
three-month term, February 1, 1995


265




March Meeting, 1995


Price, Vincent E., Associate Professor of Communication, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Communication, three-year term, July 1, 1995
Soloway, Elliot, from Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Education, without tenure, School of
Education, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education,
April 1, 1995
Wu, Chien-Fu J., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, also appointed Chair, Department of Statistics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, three-year term, July 1, 1995
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure, government service leave extended, April 4, 1995-April 3, 1996
Copeland, Valire C., Assistant Professor of Social Work, leave without salary extended
Shaw, Theodore M., Assistant Professor of Law, personal leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Clark, Noreen M., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, also appointed the Marshall H.
Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health, five-year term, April 1, 1995
Harris, Randy J., M.P.A, Associate Vice President for Finance, May 1, 1995
Jackson, James S., from the Daniel Katz Collegiate Professor of Psychology, Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Health
Behavior and Health Education,without tenure, School of Public Health, Research
Scientist, Institute for Social Research, and Faculty Associate, Institute of Gerontology, to
the Daniel Katz Distinguished University Professor of Psychology, Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Health Behavior and
Health Education, without tenure, School of Public Health, Research Scientist, Institute for
Social Research, and Faculty Associate, Institute of Gerontology
Kinnear, Thomas C., reappointed the D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business
Administration, two-year term
Koenen, Ludwig, from the Herbert C. Youtie Professor of Papyrology to the H. C. Youtie
Distinguished University Professor of Papyrology
Massey, Vincent, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed the J. Lawrence
Oncley Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry
Matthews, Rowena G., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, and
Research Scientist, Institute of Science and Technology, also appointed the G. Robert
Greenberg Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry
Mourou, G6rard A, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also
appointed the A D. Moore Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science, January 1, 1996
Skramstad, Susan C., from Director of Institutional Advancement and Executive Assistant to the
Chancellor, UM-Dearborn, to Vice-Chancellor for Institutional Advancement,
UM-Dearborn, one-year term, March 1, 1995
Sobchak, Anatoly, the Helen L. Deroy Visiting Professor in Honors, winter term
Warner, Kenneth E., Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Public Health and Administration, also appointed the Richard D.
Remington Collegiate Professor of Public Health, five-year term, April 1, 1995


266




March Meeting, 1995


A. James French Professorship in Diagnostic Pathology.              The
Regents approved the establishment of the A   James French Professorship in
Diagnostic Pathology in the Medical School, effective March 17, 1995.
George W. Morley Collegiate Professorship in           Obstetrics and
Gynecology. The Regents approved the establishment of the George W. Morley
Collegiate Professorship in Obstetrics and Gynecology in the Medical School,
effective March 17, 1995.
NBD Bancorp Assistant or Associate Professorship in Business
Administration. The Regents approved the establishment of the NBD Bancorp
Assistant or Associate Professorship in Business Administration, effective September 1, 1995.
Research Professorship in Japanese Business. The Regents approved
the establishment of the Research Professorship in Japanese Business in the
School of Business Administration, effective September 1, 1995.
Godfrey D. Stobbe Professorship in Pathology Education. The Regents approved the establishment of the Godfrey D. Stobbe Professorship in Pathology Education in the Medical School, effective March 17, 1995.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval:
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Agranoff, Bernard W., March 1, 1995-February 28, 1998, new appointment
Hinshaw, Ada S., March 1, 1995-February 28, 1998, new appointment
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Harris, Helen, April 1, 1995-March 31, 1999, new appointment
Hulsey, Kari, April 1, 1995-March 31, 1999, new appointment
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Miller, Douglas E., retroactive, January 1-May 31, 1995, vice Charles W. Bailey, sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Abshire, Kelly Z., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Brandt, Kari L., M.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology
Frazier, Lessie J., B.A, Lecturer II in Anthropology
Hickey, Sean P., M.S., Lecturer II in Chemistry
Lehne, Laurie, M.A, Lecturer II in Sociology
Lopez, Gretchen E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology in the Women's Studies Program
Silberman, Eve J., M.A, Lecturer II in Communication
Medical School
Austin, Edward, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery


267




March Meeting, 1995


Baiter, James M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, March 1, 1995
Carnahan, Jane M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, December 1, 1994
Day, Mark L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, April 3, 1995
Fontana, Robert J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Kilgore, Kenneth S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pharmacology
Litow, Katherine W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II of Psychiatry, December 1, 1994
Mahapatra, Srinibas, M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, December 1, 1994
Wechsler, Stephanie B., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
College of Pharmacy
Jacobson, Pamala A-, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy
Mehta, Varsha, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy
Tamer, Helen R., Ph.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy
West, Nina J., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy
School of Public Health
Lowery, Julie C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy, February 1, 1995
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Tippen, Maureen P., Lecturer in Nursing
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOI         NTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bettinger, Christopher P., from Lecturer II to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant in Sociology,
May 1, 1995
Chasteen, Amy L., from Lecturer II to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant in Sociology
Wellin, Elaine S., from Lecturer II to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant in Sociology
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Wasserman, Donna P., from Lecturer in Political Science to Assistant Professor of Political
Science, January 1, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Darvas, Robert M., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, retirement
furlough, January 1-May 31, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Levinson, Marjorie, Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 24 -February 20, 1995
Meyer, Donald I., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 1995
Nica, Alexandru M., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research
leave, January 1-May 31, 1995
Medical School
Allen, Richard J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Professor
of Pediatrics in the Department of Neurology, without tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1996
Gelehrter, Thomas D., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Chair, Department of Human
Genetics, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, sabbatical leave,
February 1-July 31, 1995


268




March Meeting, 1995


Smolen, James E., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure,
and Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, duty off campus, February 1 -April 30, 1995
Tallio, Debora G., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, extended sick leave,
November 29, 1994-January 9, 1995
Wolf, Fredric M., Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
sabbatical leave, March 1-August 31, 1995
College of Pharmacy
Woster, Patricia S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, extended sick leave,
October 27, 1994-January 1, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Mazian, Florence I., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1994
UM-Flint School of Management
Marquardt, John D., Associate Professor of Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1995
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gregerson, Linda KL, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1993-December 31, 1994, extended sick leave, January 24-May 31, 1995, and
scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1995 (previously reported as scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1995)
Milne, Michael G., Lecturer III in Spanish, extended sick leave, September 22, 1994-April 30,
1995 (previously reported as September 22-December 31, 1994)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McLoyd, Vonnie C., Professor of Psychology and Afroamerican Studies, with tenure (previously
reported as sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1995)
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1994, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Buj, Lorenzo Z., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete, April 30, 1994
Choi, Yeong, Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete, December 31, 1993
Christdas, Prathima, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, term complete,
April 30, 1994
Deitering, Cynthia S., Lecturer II in English, term complete, April 30, 1994
Eby, Cecil D., Jr., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, retired,
May 31, 1995
Fraser, Russell A, Austin Warren Professor of English, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1995
Green, John D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
December 31, 1993
Henkin, Joshua H., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete
Henry, Gordon D., Lecturer II in Native American Studies, term complete, April 30, 1994
Kausch, David T., Lecturer II in Mathematics, term complete, April 30, 1994
Lyons, Daniel J., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete
Mayens-Robles, Nadeska, Lecturer I in Spanish, resigned


269




March Meeting, 1995


Mayer, Mary E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
December 31, 1993
Miesel, Victor H., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1995
Peters, Jeffrey A, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Smith, Rochelle F., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
December 31, 1993
Thornhill, Nancy W., Lecturer II in Communication, resigned, February 1, 1995
Walker, Donna L. W., Lecturer II in English, term complete, April 30, 1994
Whyte, Martin K., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1995
Widodo, Amrih, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, term complete, April 30, 1994
Wein, Terren I., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Yaquinto, Marilyn A, Lecturer II in Communication, term complete
Ziporyn, Brook A, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, term complete, April 30, 1994
Medical School
Lucey, Michael R., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, resigned,
February 28, 1995
Schreiber, Emanuel D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, term complete, February 28, 1994
Spindler, Alvin C., Lecturer in Psychiatry, term complete, January 31, 1994
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by
Regent Baker, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Audit Report: The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund
for Years Ended December 31, 1994 and 1993
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
voted unanimously to accept of the audit report for the Donor Pooled Income
Fund for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993.
Appointment of Auditors for 1994-95
Executive Vice President Womack recommended the reappointment of
Ernst & Young as auditors for 1994-95. He also requested that the Regents
consider whether they wish to continue the tenure of Ernst & Young as auditors
for 1995-96, as by then they will have completed nine years as auditors. On a
motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously
approved the appointment of Ernst & Young as auditors for 1994-95.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report
of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of
Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1994
The Regents received Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited
Financial Report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the
University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1994, as required by the
NCAA Financial Audit Guidelines.
Regent Newman left the meeting at this point, at abot 11:30 a.m.
School of Business Administration Facilities Improvement Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Douglas Hanna, who
presented the plans for this addition to the existing Executive Residence and
renovation of several areas within the business school complex. The programs to
be accommodated include expansion of the number of Executive Residence guest


270




March Meeting, 1995


rooms, housing for the William Davidson Institute, and new classrooms and
administration areas for the executive education program. Mr. Hanna displayed
the site plan, schematic designs for each floor and a rendering of the proposed
building.
Regent McGowan inquired about whether the number of parking spaces in
the Hill Street structure would need to be increased to accommodate the greater
capacity being added to the Executive Residence facilities. It was noted that the
majority of people who attend executive education programs do not drive themselves to the complex.. Following some discussion, it was decided to determine
whether the business school parking structure had the capacity for expansion
should that be necessary and to bring this information back to the Regents.
Mr. Hanna then displayed a model of the proposed addition.  Regent
McGowan expressed the hope that the area reserved for trash containers would
be inset so that they would be hidden from view on Hill Street to the extent
possible.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the design of the School of Business Administration
Facilities Improvement Project.
North Campus Bell Tower
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the project budget and authorized soliciting bids and
awarding a construction contract to the successful bidder for the North Campus
Bell Tower.
University of Michigan Visitors Center Project
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised budget for the University of Michigan Visitors
Center Project and authorized award of a construction contract to John M. Olson
Company.
University of Michigan Hospitals Single Room Maternity Care Project
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the contract
for construction of the Single Room Maternity Care Project had been awarded to
George W. Auch Company.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
approved the following projects: 1) replacement of an underground storage tank
at University of Michigan Hospitals (UMH); 2) replacement of the UMH patient
tower water circulation piping system; 3) construction of a reflecting pool on
North Campus immediately west of the Engineering Center Building; 4) renovations to the entry and service/support areas of the Walter E. Lay Automotive
Laboratory; and 5) renovations in the Cooley Building to provide two new
laboratories for faculty members in the Department of Nuclear Engineering.


271




March Meeting, 1995


Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 3.05 (Gifts to the University)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
approved a revision to Regents' Bylaw Section 3.05.        The text of the revised
bylaw follows:
Sec. 3.05. Gifts to the University
The executive vice president and chief financial officer, or the executive vice
president's written designee, shall have authority to accept all gifts to the University in
the form of money and securities or in any other form, whether for the benefit of the
entire institution or any of its subdivisions. All gifts must be reported to the president
and the Board in a manner recommended by the executive vice president and chief
financial officer and approved by the president and the Board.
No gift for building purposes nor any gift whose maintenance will add to the
ordinary operating budget of the University shall be accepted without express
permission of the Board.
Each gift is accepted subject to the general policy of the Board that the wishes of
the donors with respect to their gifts shall be loyally observed, so long as in the opinion
of the Board such wishes do not conflict with the proper administration of the University under changes that may develop in the course of time.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:50 a.m.
The next meeting will be held on April 20 and 21, 1995. Regents' expenses for
the month of February 1995 totaled $2,234.22.
Interim Secretary of the University
Inkterim  Secretary of the University


272




APRIL MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 20, 1995
The Regents met at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horing, McFee, McGowan, Newman,
Power, and Varner. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President Womack, and
Provost Whitaker were also present, as were Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford,
and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick. Vice President Kinnear was
absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
Varner, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on April 20, 1995, to consider material exempt from
discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion
from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
President's Report
President Duderstadt commented on the state appropriations process that
he said has been portrayed incorrectly as a battle between the University of
Michigan and Michigan State University. He stated that the University does not
oppose the larger than average increases being proposed for Michigan State,
Grand Valley State, and Western Michigan universities; rather, he believes that
the state should increase appropriations in excess of the inflation rate to all
universities, since all have shared in the losses of the recent past. He observed
that over the past seven years, the erosion in state support compared to inflation
has resulted in a loss of $35 million in the University's base appropriation. The
University of Michigan supports the current proposal that would provide
increases of a minimum of six percent to the twelve other public universities,
while still sustaining the additional increases for Michigan State, Western Michigan, and Grand Valley State.
President Duderstadt reviewed the history of state finding for higher education, which has eroded significantly over the past 20 years. This has resulted in
higher reliance on tuition increases to make up the difference. He observed that
all state universities had experienced declines in the number of Michigan
residents enrolled compared with ten years ago, with declines at Michigan and
Wayne State averaging between 300 and 350 per year, and the declines at Michigan State averaging over 3,000 students. The reason for this decline is a 15


273




April Meeting, 1995


percent (25,000 students) decline in the number of Michigan high school graduates. He stated that the University of Michigan is "first and foremost a public
university serving this state," and it remains solidly committed to educating
instate students.
Following some comments by the Regents, the President turned to Provost
Whitaker to present the Provost's Report.
Provost's Report
Provost Whitaker commented on the status of each of the four dean
searches currently either underway or in the planning stages. These include the
School of Public Health, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, the
College of Pharmacy, and the College of Engineering. He then reviewed some of
the awards that have been received by various faculty and some noteworthy
accomplishments of students and faculty during the past several months within
the various schools and colleges.
Resolution in Honor of Men's and Women's Swimming and Diving
Teams
President Duderstadt introduced the men's and women's swimming and
diving teams and coaches, who were in attendance. He reported that the men's
team had won the NCAA championship and the women had come in a close
second. These teams "epitomize all that's great about Michigan athletics," he
noted, with their outstanding athletic and academic accomplishments.
Men's coach Jon Urbanchek acknowledged the boost that the building of
Canham Natatorium had made to the swimming program and recognized also
the contributions of all involved with the men's and women's swimming
program. He observed that the recognition by the Regents is the biggest the
teams have received.
The president called on Regent Homing, who read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend the
Michigan men's and women's swimming and diving teams and
coaches for their extraordinary success during the 1994-95 season.
The men's team won the 1995 NCAA national swimming and
diving title, becoming the first Michigan team to win an NCAA title
since the men's basketball team won it in 1989. This outstanding
team  swept the championship meet awards, with Coach Jon
Urbanchek winning the 1995 NCAA Swimming Coach of the Year
award and swimmer Tom Dolan being named 1995 NCAA
Swimmer of the Year. Tom Dolan won all three individual events in
which he participated, setting American and NCAA records in each,
while captain Gustavo Borges won his 10th NCAA title in four years.


274




April Meeting, 1995


The men's swimming and diving program holds more NCAA titles
than any other varsity-level sport at Michigan.
The Michigan women's swimming and diving team, which
finished a close second at the NCAA national championships, did
what no other team has done before by becoming the first team other
than Stanford, Texas, or Florida to finish in the top three since the
championships began in 1982. Women's coach Jim Richardson won
his second NCAA Swimming Coach of the Year award, while senior
co-captain Alecia Humphrey, a twelve-time All-American, set a Big
Ten record by winning three NCAA titles. Alecia has held both Big
Ten backstroke records since her freshman year and won all eight
100 and 200 backstroke Big Ten titles in her four years at Michigan.
At the finals, the Michigan women's team set eleven Big Ten
Conference and thirteen Michigan records, with freshman Talor
Bendel being responsible for seven of them.
To quote Coach Richardson, "Each team seeks its own destiny."
These outstanding teams and coaches have certainly achieved theirs.
The Regents take great pride in saluting the men's and women's
swimming and diving teams and coaches for their strong and
continuing contributions to the Michigan athletic tradition.
There followed a round of applause.
Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack reported on the University's M-Quality
efforts. He distributed a list of some of the M-Quality activities that are
currently underway, noting that over 100 teams are at work on campus. He
observed that M-Quality allows problems to be attacked and solved by the people
who know the most about them. Executive Vice President Womack also reported
on compliments he had received recently from a dean and others on the quality
of work performed by staff members in the business and finance area, and noted
that this is a reflection of the change in culture and increasing sensitivity to
customers that has developed as a result of the M-Quality effort.
Regent Varner recalled having toured the exhibits at the M-Quality Expo in
the fall. She and Regent Baker asked Executive Vice President Womack to
convey their praise to staff members for their dedication to the principles of
M-Quality.
Institute of Public Policy Studies
Provost Whitaker called to the table Professor Ned Gramlich, director of the
Institute of Public Policy Studies, to comment on a proposal to change the status
of the Institute of Public Policy Studies. Regent Power made the following
motion:
1.  That the Institute of Public Policy Studies (IPPS) be reconstituted
as the School of Public Policy under the administrative direction of


275




April Meeting, 1995


a dean, and that the title of the current director be changed
accordingly.
2.   That faculty members who currently hold teaching appointments
in IPPS be reclassified with instructional titles rather than as
research scientists (this provision does not imply any change in the
location of tenure in cases where individuals have already acquired
tenure, or are on tenure track, in units other than IPPS).
3.   That the Institute's externally constituted executive committee be
discontinued and the internal program committee form the School
of Public Policy's first executive committee to function in accordance with the internal bylaws developed by IPPS in 1991 and
amended in 1992.
4.   That the Regents repeal Section 13.01 of the Regents' Bylaws and
approve the following description of the School of Public Policy
Executive Committee for inclusion as Section 11.23 of the Regents'
Bylaws:
Sec. 11.23. The School of Public Policy Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and four members of the faculty
to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president. The appointed
members shall hold office for two years and shall not be eligible for reappointment
until after the lapse of one year. The terms shall be staggered so as to provide
continuity of membership. The dean shall chair the committee. The governing faculty
is authorized to arrange for student participation in meetings of the executive committee in an advisory capacity. A student participant shall be selected annually in
accordance with procedures approved by the governing faculty.
5.   That this plan be given effect on July 1, 1995.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion. Professor Gramlich pointed out
that this change will be both budget neutral and tenure neutral. In response to
questions from the Regents, Professor Gramlich explained that this change will
not affect the tenure status of current faculty members associated with IPPS.
Rather the tenure of current faculty members would remain with them when
they are transferred to the School of Public Policy.
Professor Gramlich commented about how Michigan's School of Public
Policy will fit in with other such schools nationally. He also gave examples of
service to the state by current and former IPPS faculty members and students.
Following further comments, the vote was taken and Regent Power's motion was
approved unanimously.
Regent Deitch took note of the large number of students who had attended
the meeting to express their concerns about the Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities.
The meeting then recessed, at about 3:00 p.m., to meet in executive session.


276




April Meeting, 1995


Public Comments
The meeting reconvened in the Michigan Union at 4:00 p.m. and heard
comments from the following people, on the topics indicated: Aaron Williams,
citizen, Vincent Keenan, student, Anne Marie Ellison, student, Flint Wainess,
student and president of MSA, and Julie Neenan, student, speaking against the
adoption of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities as a permanent
policy; Curtis Mischler, student, speaking in favor of the adoption of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities as a permanent policy; Danielle
DuBois, student, about the women's basketball program; and Craig Peters and
Joseph F. DeMarsh, former counselors at the Shady Trails Camp, and Shanaya
Ellsberry and Stacy Klingerman, former campers at the Shady Trails Camp,
about plans to close the University's Shady Trails Camp.
Friday, April 21, 1995
The Regents met at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Homing, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President
Womack, and Provost Whitaker were also present, as were Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick.    Vice
President Kinnear was absent; Associate Vice President Roy Muir attended in
his stead.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and announced that
several personnel actions were to be considered prior to consideration of the
regular agenda.
Dean of the School of Public Health. Provost Whitaker announced the
recommendation of Noreen Clark as dean of the School of Public Health, effective September 1, 1995. He called on Professor Clark, who was in attendance at
the meeting. Professor Clark thanked the Regents for her appointment and
briefly discussed her goals for the School of Public Health.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Noreen M. Clark as dean of the
School of Public Health.
Associate Vice President for University Relations. Vice President
Harrison announced his recommendation for the appointment of Cynthia H.
Wilbanks as associate vice president for university relations. On a motion by
Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved
the appointment of Cynthia H. Wilbanks as associate vice president for university relations.
Secretary of the University. President Duderstadt announced the
recommendation of Roberta R. Palmer as secretary of the university. On a
motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved
the appointment of Roberta R. Palmer as secretary of the university. Regent
Baker abstained from voting, noting that he was enthusiastic about the


277




April Meeting, 1995


appointment and his reasons for abstaining were unrelated to the person selected
for the position.
CESF Report - Ann Arbor Campus
President Duderstadt called on Associate Professor Thomas Toon, chair of
the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF). Professor Toon
reported that this year, the committee was not making specific recommendations
on the size of proposed salary increases for faculty. Rather, the committee
observed that the administration and the faculty need to do a better job of
communicating on issues of the economic status of the faculty. Professor Toon
stressed the importance of receiving faculty input before decisions are made
about economic issues.  The committee has proposed the formulation of a
campus-wide faculty compensation policy on salary that "defines and affirms the
future roles of the faculty and the administration of the University."
There followed some discussion, during which the Regents and the president expressed their appreciation for the committee's efforts and expressed the
desire to work with faculty on compensation issues.
Budget Outlook
Provost Whitaker gave a presentation describing the "best guess" budget
outlook at this point in time for the 1995-96 fiscal year. The budget assumptions
were based on the University's receiving a 3 percent increase and on the
proposed $8.5 million loss in funding not being sustained in the Senate.
Provost Whitaker's projections call for a revenue increase of 0.6 percent
(from $7.25M to $7.29M) and a budget deficit of $25.42M on the expense side.
He said that each 1.0 percent increase in state appropriation yields $2.8M, while
each 1.0 percent increase in gross tuition revenue yields $3.66M. On the expense
side, each 1.0 percent increase in the general operating budget equals almost $5.0
million. The goal is to present a balanced budget, with some increases in revenue and some increases in expenses.
Provost Whitaker displayed a chart illustrating the annual percentage
increase in total General Fund revenue since 1980; this has ranged from 10.0
percent in 1980 to 12.0 percent in 1986 to less than 4.0 percent in 1993. To fund
the budget he just described would require a 4.1 percent increase, which would
be the lowest budget in 15 years, except for 1993, when there was no salary
program.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Provost Whitaker reported
that budget cutting has been occurring for the past three years in order to fund
salary programs. Regent Power observed that program discontinuation guidelines are complicated and make it difficult for the University to manage the
budget process. Provost Whitaker said that there has been some discussion
about changing those guidelines to make them less cumbersome, and that if
there was support from the Board, he would pursue that more vigorously.
Regent Power responded that it would make sense for the Board to have tools in
place to deal with budget disasters that might occur, rather than having to react


278




April Meeting, 1995


to such crises after they happen. Regent Newman suggested that methods for
cutting costs, as well as reallocating costs, ought to be considered.
President Duderstadt responded that the M-Quality effort is significantly
reducing costs and improving quality. However, M-Quality does not provide a
means for questioning whether there are major activities at the University that
should be stopped because they don't meet current priorities. While the University can certainly benefit from further cost reduction and productivity increase
efforts, it has already been shown to be among the most efficiently operated institutions in the country. These facts only affect the margin, however; Regent
Power's suggestions will require a much more considered study of whether the
University can afford to do all of the things it is currently doing. There is no
existing mechanism that allows an examination of these issues, nor is there an
existing process or procedure that allows the University to take action if it is
decided that some activities are no longer viable.
In light of this, Regent Power urged that the executive officers "consider,
consult, and propose to the Board a less cumbersome, more timely, and less
ambiguous process for program discontinuation and change than we now have."
Provost Whitaker responded that the officers will begin considering this, with
fill consultation from faculty.
Regent Deitch commented that finding new sources of revenue generation is
also important. He observed that there are a lot of opportunities for enhancing
revenue that can be tapped by shifting the paradigm and recognizing new realities. Provost Whitaker responded that Value Centered Management is one tool
that allows the University to take advantage of these opportunities.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Vice President Hartford expressed her appreciation to Ms. Julie Neenan,
1994-95 president of Michigan Student Assembly, for her hard work and significant accomplishments during the past year. There followed a round of applause.
She then introduced Mr. Flint Wainess, newly-elected president of Michigan
Student Assembly.
Vice President Hartford first called the Regents' attention to the quarterly
report of judicial activity arising from the Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities that was being submitted as an information item. She also
noted that she had submitted an amended Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities (hereinafter referred to as "the Statement"), per the Regents'
action of February 1994.
Vice President Hartford observed that the Statement had received a lot of
criticism, and although she was not wedded to this particular version of it, there
was no question that there was both philosophical and legal justification for
having some sort of campus code of conduct in place. She offered this statement
as an example of a code, but said that she was open to direction from the
Regents.


279




April Meeting, 1995


Regent McGowan acknowledged both the concerns about the code that had
been expressed by students and the advice of Vice President Hartford that it was
necessary to have some kind of statement in place. She therefore offered the
following motion: that the Board of Regents ask the vice president for student
affairs to begin again by drafting a statement of values and a separate statement
of a process which will facilitate the resolution of differences. The process should
emphasize education. She emphasized that constitutional issues are not under
question or consideration and asked that Vice President Hartford draft a "clear,
concise statement which suggests an understandable and fair process for resolving alleged infractions; and that it be made less legalistic and less ponderous
[than the current statement]." Further, she suggested that in drafting the new
document, Vice President Hartford consult with elected Michigan Student
Assembly representatives and others that they determine and that in the Fall of
1995 the resulting statement, representing her best efforts and those of student
leaders, be recommended to the Board as a permanent policy. Until that time,
the current interim statement shall apply. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker stated that he disagrees with Regent McGowan's assessment
of the constitutionality of conduct codes. He quoted from remarks he had made
in 1992, which in turn had quoted from a letter written by Professor Carl Cohen
which had expressed the views that the code proposed at that time would have
had the effect of silencing speech and expression and be in conflict with the U.S.
Constitution. He further quoted from his 1992 statement about a classroom
incident in which speech that was contained in a homework assignment had
been criticized by a teaching assistant and had had the effect of causing a student
to drop the course.
Regent Baker opined that attempting to control conduct leads to control of
speech. He reviewed each of the amendments to the Statement that he had
suggested in 1992, asking Vice President Hartford whether these suggestions had
been incorporated into the current interim code. Vice President Hartford
responded in each case to Regent Baker's specific queries. Vice President
Hartford observed that the Policy on Discriminatory Harassment had been abolished and further stated that the current interim code contains "a passionate
defense of a student's constitutional right to free speech," as would any future
versions.
Regent Deitch made it clear that none of the Regents want to have a speech
code; the first amendment guarantee of free speech will be protected under any
statement approved by the Regents. He emphasized that the University is a
community that depends on values of civility, collegiality, and respect for certain
values. The final revision of the code should be a simple statement of norms and
values and expectations of the people who freely choose to be part of this community. The approach to take when dealing with standards that have been violated
should emphasize mediation and conciliation by peers.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Regent Baker said that the
point of the comments of Professor Cohen that he had quoted from was that
conduct codes, improperly written, can be speech codes, because they do affect
speech. He also stated that he is opposed to almost all codes, except the


280




April Meeting, 1995


statement in Regents' Bylaws giving the president authority to maintain health,
diligence, and order among the students (Bylaw 2.01). The simpler the code, the
better, according to Regent Baker.
Regent Newman emphasized that students holding the positions of president of MSA and the leaders of MSA's Human Rights Commission and student
civil liberties board should play key roles in the redrafting of the statement.
Regent McFee pointed out that a university is a transitional place for
students between parent-dominated home environments and participation as
adults in the working world. A code needs to have an educational emphasis
because its purpose is not to control students, but to help them make this
transition. She emphasized Regent McGowan's focus in her motion that a code
should be simple, understandable, and that there should be student involvement
in its enforcement.
Regent Deitch stated that when the new statement comes back to the Board
in the fall, that will be the end of the process. A code will be adopted at that time,
so he advised all concerned that if they don't participate in the process, a code
will be adopted without their participation.
In response to comments about the code revision process from Mr. Wainess,
Regent Deitch stated that Vice President Hartford has the complete support of
the Board of Regents. When it comes back to the Regents, they "will get it done."
Regent Power reviewed the history of how the current interim code came to
be, noting that 1) the original participation of some students was insincere, as
they believed there should be no code at all; 2) at the time an original draft was
brought to the Board, some Regents confused its purpose, as a code of conduct
applying to people who choose to be members of an academic community, with
that of a legal system; and 3) some students believed that if they were recalcitrant, the University would end up not adopting a code. He emphasized that
"there will be a code," either one developed by a consultative process managed by
Vice President Hartford, or one developed by the Board.
The vote was then taken on Regent McGowan's motion, and it was
approved on a vote of seven to one, with Regent Baker opposed.
Regent Power commended the behavior of the students who had attended
the previous day's meeting and public comments session, noting that as a result,
the Regents had proceeded to conduct their business, but "listened hard" to the
students.
Regent McFee observed that under Ms. Neenan's leadership, MSA had
adopted a cooperative, collaborative approach on issues, rather than an adversarial approach, and that this had resulted in a win-win situation for everyone.
Minutes
Regent Baker moved approval of the minutes of the meetings of February
and March, 1995, with the addition on the February meeting minutes that the


281




April Meeting, 1995


views expressed by Regent Power with regard to changes being contemplated in
the way the Board operates were his own personal remarks. The other Regents
stated that they wished to associate themselves with Regent Power's remarks.
The vote was then taken and the minutes of the meetings of February and
March 1995 were approved on a vote of seven to one, with Regent Baker opposed.
Consent Agenda
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and non-competitive
purchases over $2,000.         Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current research for the month of March
1995. He pointed out that the Report of Projects Established is in a new                        format
that compares the number and value of awards with those figures for the prior
year to date.
Voluntary Support. Associate Vice President Muir submitted the report
of gifts received for the month of March 1995.
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Institute of Science and Technology.................................. 66,870
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for  research  in  the  M edical School..........................................................................................................6,965
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 3 0,3 3 3
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 17,500
Amoco Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u siness  A dm inistration........  15 000.................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Ann Arbor Firefighters Local 1733, Ann Arbor
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.........................6,000
Arrison Family Charitable Foundation, Amherst, New York
for the Clement R. and Vera J. Arrison Fund in the College of Engineering................................20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................................................. 12 9,5 0 0
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for  the  U niversity   M u sical  Society..................................................................................................................................  7,800
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration........................................... 25,000
Joseph H. Bassett, Royal Oak
for the Cary-Bassett Scholarship in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of  Literature, Science, and  the  A rts......................................................................5.................................5,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for  support  in   the  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................  7,000
Baxter International, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Adm   inistration.......................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the  Alvin  M. and  Arvella  D. Bentley  Scholarship........................................................................................37,152
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
146 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for  research   in   the  M edical  School................................................................................................................................ 7,665
Bruce P. Bickner, De Kalb, Illinois
for the Bruce P. Bickner Endowed Scholarship in the Law School...........................................................5,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. and Elizabeth Binda Award Fund in the College of Architecture
an d   U rban   P lan ning...................................................................................................................................................................10,000


282




April Meeting, 1995


Henry W. and Marion H. Bloch Foundation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Marion and Henry Bloch Arts Fund and other support in the College of
L iterature,     Science,    and    the   A rts........................................................................................................................................20,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................. 81,000
Business Fund for Canadian Studies in the United States, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Fund in the School of Business Administration.................6,000
Centerior Energy Community Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and for the Campaign for Michigan...............................5,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration
and for the Minority Engineering Program and scholarships in the College of
E n g in e e rin g...........................................................................................................................................................................................2 0,0 0 0
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation, Taipei, Korea
for research in the Institute for Social Research......................................................................................................7,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the research and Searle Scholars Program                     in the Medical School...............................................45,000
Ciba-Geigy Corporation, Ardsley, New York
for research in the College of Pharmacy....................................................................................................................9,757
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for  em  p loyee     m atch in g   gift s....................................................................................................................................................16,8 25
Lyle E. Craine Estate
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Natural Resources...................................................16,338
Richard H. Crane Trust
for  th e   R ich ard   H.  C rane   F un d.............................................................................................................................................12,899
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................22,793
Carol Whitney Darling Estate, Port Orange, Florida
for support in the School of Education and the College of Engineering.............................................10,000
Helen G. Denning Trust
for the Reynolds M. Denning Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an  d   th e   A rts........................................................................................203............................................................................28,203
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research       in   the   M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for models of sensory and motor neuropathies research in the School of
P u b lic   H e a lth.......................................................................................................................................................................................6 0,0 0 0
Dowell Schlumberger, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media,
C olleg  e   of  E n g in eerin g.................................................................................................................................................................2 0,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration and for research in the College of Engineering......................................165,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management and the Associates
Program in the School of Business Administration, for research in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Harmonize for Hope Fund
in   th e   M ed ical  S ch ool....................................................................................................................................................................2 7,5 0 0
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for   W U  O M  /W  V G R...........................................................................................................................................................................10,0 0 0
Charlotte Geyer Foundation, Williamsville, New York
for  research       in   the  M edical  Sch ool.....................................................................................................................................50,000
William A. Gracie, Jr., Ann Arbor
100 shares of CNA Financial Corporation common stock
for the William A. Gracie, Jr., donor pooled income fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School............................................................................................................7,269
Dorothy Greenwald Trust
for the Greenwald Student Aid Fund in the Law School and for scholarships in
th e   S ch ool  of  M u sic..................................................................................................................................................................1,608,6 35
Robert D. and Colleen Haas Fund of the San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, Ca
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an  d   th e   A rts...................................................................................................................................................................10,000
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Avon, Connecticut
for the International Institute and the Director's Graduate Student Fellowship
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................................................5,000
James J. Harbaugh, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................................................5,000


283




April Meeting, 1995


Constance A. Hayes, Los Angeles, California
168 shares of Thrifty Payless Holdings, Inc., common stock
for the Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the School of Education.................................20,000
William   and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for environmental studies support in the School of Natural Resources..................................... 25,000
Hewlett Packard Financial Services Center, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the IPOCSE Performance Evaluation Fund and the Michigan Leadershape
Institute in the College of Engineering.........3.........................................35,000
Hitachi Limited Energy Research Laboratory, Ibaraki-ken, Japan
for nuclear engineering support in the College of Engineering................................................................... 9,995
Emil A. Holz Trust
for the Emil and Jeannette Holz Scholarship in the School of Music......................................................7,771
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Estate
175,482 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift for
endowment support in the Medical School, for support of the University
Library for student Financial Aid, for the Michigan Speech and Hearing
CaMp, for the University Marching Bands, and for Gifts Pending Designation................16,752,280
Daniel M. Hume, Ann Arbor
for biological chemistry support in the Medical School....................................................................................5,000
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm         Beach, Florida
400 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering and
for the Frances B. Furlong Scholarship in the School of Music................................................................. 16,238
Impact Communications, Inc., New York, New York
for  research    in   the  M edical  S ch ool..................................................................................................................................... 14,000
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the University Art Gallery, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................60,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for  research    in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................6,227
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................2 2,659
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
1,000 shares of PairGain Technologies common stock
for the Carl Kreager Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.........................................22,500
William G. Kring, Massapequa, New York
for the Mu Phi Epsilon Margaret Rinderknecht Memorial Scholarship in the
S ch o o l   o f   M u sic.................................................................................................................................................................................. 10,0 0 0
Thomas E. Kruger, Jr., Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts............................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust, Twinsburg, Ohio
for the Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the Medical School................................... 10,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.......................................................................................................................................8,750
Litvak Foundation, Detroit
for the Alan T. Akerman Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School..........................................50,000
Elizabeth Lucas Estate
for the Women's Health Initiative Heart Research Fund in the Medical School.........................33,185
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering..................      100,000
Robert E. Lyon, Wheaton, Illinois
for support in the Horace H. Rackham          School of Graduate Studies.......................................................5,000
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for   su pp ort  of  th e   L aw   S ch ool.................................................................................................................................................. 5,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research    in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................29,311
James A. McDivitt, Potomac, Maryland
for the James A. and Judith McDivitt Scholarship in the College of Engineering......................10,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
200 shares of Bank of Boston common stock
for the Research in College Teaching and Learning Fund in the College of
L iteratu re,  S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts...........................................................................................................................................5,900
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and in the
College  of  Literature, Science, and    the  A rts...........................................................................................................678,700


284




April Meeting, 1995


James R. Mellor, Falls Church, Virginia
674 shares of General Dynamics Corporation common stock
for the James R. and Suzanne S. Mellor Faculty Support Fund in the
C ollege     of  E n g in eerin g............................................................................................................................................................ 3 0,3 6 9
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u siness    A dm  inistration.,000........................................................................................................................................................... 15,000
Mitotix, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Crystallography Facility Gift Fund in the Institute of Science
an  d   T ech n o lo g y........................................00.............................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts..........................................................................................................................................................................................7 5,0 2 9
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for  em  ployee      m atching     gifts.................................................................................................................................................... 12,930
National Funeral Directors Association, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................12,500
National Geographic Society, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................26,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for  research       in   the   M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 7,590
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for faculty support and the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Eggertsen Dissertation
Prize Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies in memory
of  C lau d e   A.  E g gertsen...................................................................................................................................................................5,0 2 5
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike, Inc., Women's Basketball Scholarship and the Athletic Scholarship
for Women in the Department of Athletics................................................................................................................50,000
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.................................................................................50,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u sin ess    A d m in istration............................................................................................................................................................15,00 0
Oberkotter Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for  research       in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................250 000
Graham A. Orley, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
B u sin ess    A d m in istration............................................................................................................................................................11,0 0 0
Panton International-Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................5,000
Planetary Society, Pasadena, California
for the Optical Telescope Array Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A r ts.........................................................................................................................................................................................  1 1,0 0 0
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for  research       in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
Polish National Alliance, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................................................7,000
Price Waterhouse & Company, Detroit
for the Price Waterhouse BBA                 Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.........10,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering..................................................8,000
Mark Resnik, Los Angeles, California
840 shares of Thrifty Payless Holdings, Inc., common stock
for the Neurology Research and Patient Care Fund in the Medical School..................................100,002
Earl R. Riethmiller Trust
for the Edwin R. Riethmiller Fellowship in the College of Engineering and the
M  ed ical    S ch o ol................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 8,7 0 2
Rockwell International, Seal Beach, California
for  em  ployee      m atchin  g   gifts....................................................................................................................................................10,750
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies............................................................................................9,720
Violet Sharpe Estate
for the Violet Sharpe Endowed Scholarship at the University of
M  ich ig an -D  ea rb orn.........................................................................................................................................................................5 5,6 2 1


285




April Meeting, 1995


TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering...................................5...........55,000
Tandy Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................7,000
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................................................................................................................6,650
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for the TMQDA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration...............................5,000
Calvin J. Tobin, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Jean and Calvin Jay Tobin Scholarship in the College of Architecture
an d   U rb an   P lan n in g....................................................................................................................................................................... 1 1,0 3 8
Union Pacific Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................11,300
Unisys Corporation, Plymouth
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the
C ollege   o f  E n g in eerin g................................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 0
United Technologies Automotive, Dearborn
for the Engineering Science Scholarship and the Center for Engineering
Education and Practice, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................................30,000
Stichting De Hooge Waard, Amsterdam, Netherlands
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School.................................................................. 10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for biological chemistry support in the Medical School and for the University
M u sica l   S o ciety...................................................................................................................................................................................3 0,2 4 7
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts................................................................................................................................................... 16,902
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................................... 10,000
Jay N. Whipple, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for  the  Cancer  Center  in   the  M edical  School.............................................................................................................. 5,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship in the School of
B u sin ess   A d m in istration............................................................................................................................................................ 15,0 00
John W. Wiley, Ann Arbor
for  gastroenterology  research  in  the  M edical School............................................................................................5,000
Wilkinson Foundation, Grosse Pointe
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center in the School of Natural Resources............................10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Martha K. Beard, Ann Arbor
a Troy-bilt rototiller for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
K. C. Bhalgat, Swartz Creek
two EKG machines for the Physical Therapy Department, a Gilford CP-5000 SYVA Chemistry
and TDM System, a Corning pH Meter, and other various equipment for University of
Michigan-Flint Chemistry Department
Brokaw Control Systems, Dexter
an infra red oven with closed loop control for the Solar Car Project in the College of
Engineering
A. Bryan Camarda, Stamford, Connecticut
one half of the papers of Joseph P. Tumulty, personal secretary to Woodrow Wilson, for the
Clements Library
Custom Servo Motors, Inc., New Ulm, Minnesota
two custom designed motors for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering
General Motors Corporation, Research & Development Center, Warren
a Kratky small angle x-ray scatter camera for the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering
Grand Blanc Physical Medicine Clinic, Grand Blanc
a double chair orthotron for the University of Michigan-Flint Department of Physical Therapy
Gym-Tec Services, Inc., Bradenton, Florida
basketball equipment for the Department of Athletics
David A. Hamilton, Allen Park
swimming and diving brochures for the Department of Athletics
Henry's Packing Company, Perrysburg, Ohio
500 bovine adrenal glands for Department of Pharmacology


286




April Meeting, 1995


Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
an HP 1050 Quarternay pump and related equipment for the Chemistry Department, a HP
700 series workstation, software, and warranty upgrade support for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Hexcel Corporation, Pleasanton, California
custom treated honeycomb and fabric for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering
High Pressure Equipment Company, Erie, Pennsylvania
a 37-5.75-60 pressure generator for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering
Irwin T. Holtzman, Bloomfield Hills
798 titles of Soviet Literature printed in the Soviet Union, England, France, and the United
States for the University Library
Jay Medical, Ltd., Boulder, Colorado
two Jay wheelchair cushions, two wheelchair backs, mounting hardware, and a Polaroid
camera for the Physical Therapy Department
Benjamin Lev, Dearborn
books on various subjects for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Lewis & Knopf Certified Public Accountants, Flint
101 volumes of tax reference books and various other books for the University Library
Modern Body Engineering Corporation, Madison Heights
two CNC machine 42" mold and two CNC machine 0" mold with toolpath as needed and finish
work for the Solar Car
Ellis Perlman, Burton
55 hard cover books for the University of Michigan-Flint Thompson Library
Mary E. Pulick, Ann Arbor
a QIC computer and related equipment for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Diana Pullen, Effmgham, Illinois
a Greifer Myoelectric Hook and a powered wrist rotator and electrodes for the Occupational
Therapy Division
ROHO International, Inc., Belleville, Illinois
12 various wheelchair cushions for the Physical Therapy Department
John Reznikoff, Stamford, Connecticut
one half of the papers of Joseph P. Tumulty, personal secretary to Woodrow Wilson, for the
Clements Library
Special Health Systems, Aurora, Ontario, Canada
six wheelchair cushions, four wheelchair backs, and one Ultimate wheelchair seating system
for the Physical Therapy Department
Fred H. Vander Ploeg
16 cases of cases of chewing gum for the Department of Athletics
Peter M. Wege, Grand Rapids
complete modular furniture groupings for the suites in the National Pollution Prevention
Center
Deborah Weisblatt, Huntington Woods
glass artworks created by Sally Rogers, Sylvia Vigeletti, Moser Bohemian Glass, Malachite,
Lalique Glass, Baccarat, Orrefors, and Polish Crystal for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Art Collection
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Acon, Inc., South Easton, Massachusetts    Joel D. Joyce, Livonia
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor               Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Ascent Technologies, Ann Arbor             Victor H. Miesel, Ann Arbor
Richard J. Beaudry, Ann Arbor              Motorola, Inc., Semiconductor Products Sector,
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor                       Phoenix, Arizona
Harry L. Cross, Ann Arbor                  Murray A. Percival Company, Bloomfield Hills
Phillip Dascola, Ann Arbor                 Joseph L. Rife, Ann Arbor
Mark R. DeCamp, Ann Arbor                  Robert B. Snow, Ann Arbor
David Doehlert, Shakopee, Minnesota        Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Fast Signs, Ypsilanti                      Betty Sweet, Brunswick, Maine
Fitz Simons Manufacturing Company, Detroit  Ryo Takahama, Southgate
Lucy E. W. Hamilton, Grosse Pointe Farms


287




April Meeting, 1995


Provost's Reports. Provost Whitaker submitted personnel actions, personnel reports, and retirement memoirs to the Board. No deaths were reported
to the Regents this month.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Baker, Vicki V., M.D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, and the
George W. Morley Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, five-year term
Fearon, Eric R., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Associate Professor
of Pathology, without tenure, Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, and
the Emanuel N. Maisel Professor of Oncology, without tenure, five-year term
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work, September 1, 1995
Kiesler, Kenneth, M.Mus., Professor of Music, September 1, 1995
Mule, James J., Ph.D., Professor of Surgery, May 1, 1995
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Aller, Hugh D., reappointed Chair, Department of Astronomy, five-year term
Cross, John G., reappointed Associate Dean for Budget and Administration, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, three-year term
Eagle, Herbert J., reappointed Director, Residential College, one-year term
Gazda, Elaine KI, reappointed Director, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, one-year term,
July 1, 1996
Kornbluh, Hyman, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education, returned to active status,
four-month term, January 1, 1995
Kuczkowski, Robert L., reappointed Chair, Department of Chemistry, two-year term
Patterson, Donald J., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, returned to active status,
one-year term, May 1, 1995
Shridhar, Malayappan, reappointed Chair, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, three-year term
Siefert, Kristine A, appointment extended as Assistant Dean for Research, School of Social Work,
one-year term
Wagner, Warren H., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, Curator Emeritus of Pteridophytes, and
Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, returned to active status, seven-month term,
February 1, 1995
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Amrine, Frederick R., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
also appointed Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, three-year
term
Birmingham, William P., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Information and
Library Studies, without tenure, School of Information and Library Studies, five-year term,
September 1, 1995


288




April Meeting, 1995


Clark, Noreen M., from the Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health and
Professor of Public Health, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Health Behavior and
Health Education, to Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health and
Professor of Public Health, with tenure, and Dean, School of Public Health, five-year term,
September 1, 1995
Courant, Paul N., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Economics, three-year term
Delanghe, Gay A, Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department
of Dance, five-year term
Fakhouri, Hani I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work, UM-Flint, February 15, 1995 -June 30, 1988
Holmes, John W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without
tenure, May 1, 1995
Lempert, Richard 0., Francis A  llen Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, and Professor of Sociology, without tenure, School of Social Work, also
appointed Chair, Department of Sociology, School of Social Work, three-year term
Michalowski, Piotr A, George G. Cameron Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Civilization and
Languages, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of Near Eastern Studies,
one-year term, September 1, 1995
Sowers, MaryFran R., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health,
also appointed Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical
School, March 1, 1995
Weisskopf, Thomas E., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Research Scientist, Center for
Russian and East European Studies, also appointed Director of the Residential College,
five-year term, July 1, 1996
Woolliscroft, James O., Professor of Internal Medicine,with tenure, also appointed Chief of
Clinical Affairs, three-year term
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective June 1, 1995 - May 31, 1996
Hanson, Robert D., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, intergovernmental personnel
assignment leave extended
Ortner, Sherry B., Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies and
Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, teaching leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Bagale, Edward J., from Associate Vice-Chancellor for Government Relations, UM-Dearborn, to
Vice Chancellor for Government Relations, UM-Dearborn, April 1, 1995
Faeth, Gerard M., reappointed Arthur B. Modine Professor of Aerospace Engineering, ten-year
term
Fantone, Joseph C. III, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, also appointed the Godfrey D.
Stobbe Professor of Pathology Education, five-year term
Palmer, Roberta R., M.A, Secretary of the University, five-year term
Sedman, Aileen B., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
also appointed the Robert C. Kelsch Collegiate Professor of Pediatric Nephrology, five-year
term, April 21, 1995
Stewart, Paul L., Professor of Art, with tenure, also appointed the Catherine B. Heller Collegiate
Professor of Art, May 1, 1995
Talalay, Lauren E., Associate Curator, without tenure, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, also
appointed Acting Director, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, one-year term,
September 1, 1995


289




April Meeting, 1995


Weiss, Sharon W., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, also appointed the A. James French
Professor of Diagnostic Pathology, five-year term
Wilbanks, Cynthia H., Associate Vice President for University Relations, June 12, 1995
Russell N. DeJong Professorship in Neurology.               The Regents approved the establishment of the Russell N. DeJong Professorship in Neurology,
effective May 1, 1995.
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorships. The Regents approved the
establishment of four endowed named professorships in the social sciences and
the humanities within the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, known as
the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorships, effective May 1, 1995.
Vice Chancellor for Government Relations. The Regents approved
the establishment of the position of Vice Chancellor for Government Relations at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, effective April 1, 1995.
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Katehi, Linda P. B., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1999, vice Albert B. Schultz, term expired
College of Literature Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Adams, William J., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Albert I. Hermalin, term expired
Kirkpatrick, Diane M., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Peter A. Railton, term expired
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Bulkley, Jonathan W., June 1, 1995-May 31, 1997, vice Terry J. Brown, term expired
Zak, Donald R., June 1, 1995-May 31, 1997, vice Steven L. Yaffee, term expired
University Musical Society Board of Directors
Cohan, Leon S., reappointed, January 1, 1995-December 31, 1997
Hunt, Kay, March 1, 1995-December 31, 1997, new appointment
O'Neal, Joe E., March 1, 1995-December 31, 1997, new appointment
Shirley, George I., reappointed, January 1, 1995-December 31, 1997
Simpson, John O., March 28, 1995-December 31, 1997, new appointment
Smokler, Carol S., reappointed, January 1, 1995-December 31, 1997
Whitman, Marina V. N., March 1, 1995-December 31, 1997, new appointment
Wilson, Iva, reappointed, January 1, 1995-December 31, 1997
Personnel Reports
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Dorantes, Maria De Lordes, M.B.A., MA., Lecturer I in Spanish
Griffin, Matthew A, B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Mosier, Patrick E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, February 15, 1995
Peters, Stephanie L., M.A, Lecturer II in Russian Literature
Medical School
Beck, James M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Cole, James W., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995


290




April Meeting, 1995


Dressier, Gregory R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, March 1, 1995
Lerner, Charles A, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Oberdoerster, Deborah A, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, April 1, 1995
Rehemtulla, Alnawaz, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, April 1, 1995
Singer, Nora, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, April 1, 1995
Tracy, David P., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Valenstein, Marcia A, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, December 1, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Waisanen, Susan, M.A, Lecturer in Spanish, September 1, 1995
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Butler-Borruat, Dominique M., Lecturer II in French, September 1, 1992 (previously reported as
Lecturer I in French)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bean, Michael A, from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Brown, Elsa B., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of History and Afroamerican and
African Studies
Delfino, Donatella, from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Song, Renming, from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Staniszkis, JoAnna M., from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Medical School
Biermann, Janet S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, September 1, 1995
Dillon, James E., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry
Jaffe, Michele L., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, March 15, 1995
Riegger, Lori Q., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II in Anesthesiology
Terrell, Jeffrey E., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
December 1, 1994
Weatherly, Robert A, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
December 1, 1994
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Arora, Poonam, Lecturer II in Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Assistant Professor of English, College of Arts, Science, and
Letters, UM-Dearborn
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
House, Patricia, from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Professor of Health Care,
February 26, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995 - May 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Carter, Carol A, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Cheng, Mignonette Y., Professor of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough
Stewart, Paul L., Professor of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave, February 4-May 31, 1995


291




April Meeting, 1995


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Betancourt, Luis A., Lecturer II in Sociology, leave without salary, March 1-April 30, 1995
Hennessey, William J., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Director, Museum
of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Associate Professor of Architecture,
without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and Associate Professor of
Art, without tenure, School of Art, duty off campus, January 1-June 30, 1995
Medical School
Dielman, Teddy E., Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, with
tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without
tenure, School of Public Health, extended sick leave, October 6, 1993-January 30, 1996, and
disability leave, January 31, 1996-August 31, 2004
Kornblum, Sylvan, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
April 10-June 10, 1995
Powell, Robert B., Instructor in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, March 10-March 24, 1995
Riegger, Lori Q., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Anesthesiology, leave without salary,
December 2, 1994-February 28, 1995
School of Music
Browne, Richmond H., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, retirement furlough
Chudacoff, Edward M., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, retirement furlough
Crawford, Richard, Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, and Glenn
McGeogh Collegiate Professor, scholarly activity leave
Jelinek, Jerome M., Professor of Music (Cello), with tenure, retirement furlough
Meier, Gustav, Professor of Conducting, with tenure, and Director, University Orchestras and
Opera, retirement furlough
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Fisher, Sister Mary T., Lecturer in Rhetoric and Composition, extended sick leave,
January 19-February 9, 1995
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Miller, Murray H., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, extended sick
leave, January 1-April 15, 1995
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hermalin, Albert I., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 -May 31, 1995 (previously reported as leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1995)
Milne, Michael G., Lecturer III in Spanish, extended sick leave, September 22, 1994 -May 31, 1995 (previously reported as September 22, 1994-April 30, 1995)
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Hanley, Kathleen W., Assistant Professor of Business Administration, resigned,
February 15, 1995
School of Education
Lowther, Malcolm A., Professor of Education, with tenure, retired
College of Engineering
Canale, Raymond P., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, retired
Debler, Walter R., Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, retired
Glysson, Eugene A., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, retired
Kaldjian, Movses J., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, retired


292




April Meeting, 1995


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Beckham, Eugene C. III, Lecturer II in Zoology, term complete, March 31, 1995
Blum, Linda M., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Women's Studies, term complete
Cather, James N., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, retired
Hagiwara, Michio P., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, retired
Muller, Marcel N., Professor of French, with tenure, retired
Nordman, Christer E., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retired
Omer, Afaf B., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies and Lecturer II in Women's
Studies, term complete, April 30, 1995
Pollack, Irwin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, April 9, 1995
Qian, Ning, Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, resigned
Rasul, Jawaid W., Assistant Professor of Physics, term complete
Suny, Ronald G., Alex Manoogian Professor of Modern Armenian History, with tenure, resigned,
December 31, 1994
Williams, Olive, Lecturer II in Biology, term complete, March 31, 1995
Medical School
Calkins, Edward R., Instructor in Surgery, resigned, February 28, 1995
Jacobs, Mary R., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, March 17, 1995
School of Nursing
Simms, Lillian M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, retired
School of Public Health
Finkle, Jason L., Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with tenure,
retired
Retirement Memoirs
Roger E. Davis, professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Mental Health Research
Institute, Medical School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1994,
after a productive career as a neuroscientist.
Born in Wisconsin, Professor Davis received his B.S. degree (zoology) and
his M.S. degree (fisheries studies) from the University of Michigan in 1954 and
his Ph.D. degree (zoology) from the University of Wisconsin in 1961. He joined
the University of Michigan as a research associate in the Department of Fisheries
in 1961 and became an instructor in physiology in the Department of Zoology in
1963. From 1964-66, he served as a postdoctoral fellow and assistant research
zoologist at the Mental Health Research Institute (MHRI), where he worked on
biochemical correlative behavior in goldfish. During that time, he participated in
important experiments that led to the conclusion that a protein synthesis was
required for the formation of long-term memory. He was promoted to associate
research psychobiologist in 1966, associate professor of psychology in 1969,
research psychobiologist in 1971, and professor of psychology in 1974.
Continuing as a behavioral neuroscientist, Professor Davis worked on fish
behavior, making important contributions to fish anatomy as well. His laboratory served as a research setting for biopsychology graduate students. Together
with Professor R. G. Northcutt, he edited the two-volume series, Fish Neurobiology, published by the University of Michigan Press in 1983. Professor Davis'
avocation as an artist enriched the neuroscience community. His meeting posters and reprint card designs contributed to the cohesiveness of the interdisciplinary programs housed in the Neuroscience Building and the Mental Health
Research Institute.


293




April Meeting, 1995


The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scientist for his
dedicated service by naming Roger E. Davis professor emeritus of psychology and
research scientist emeritus.
Otto Z. Sellinger, research scientist in the Mental Health Research
Institute and research scientist in the Department of Psychiatry, Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1993, after a productive career
in neurochemical research.
Born in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, Dr. Sellinger received his primary education in
Rome and his S.B. degree in quantitative biology in 1954 at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. He received his Ph.D. degree in biochemistry in 1958 at
Tulane University, to which he returned as an assistant professor of biochemistry and medicine following two postdoctoral NIH fellowship years in Rome with
E. B. Chain (Nobel Laureate, 1945) and in Louvain, Belgium, with C. de Duve
(Nobel Laureate, 1974). He came to the University of Michigan in 1965 as an
associate research pharmacologist at the Mental Health Research Institute,
rising to the rank of research scientist in 1969.
Dr. Sellinger made many contributions to neurochemistry, among them an
understanding of methionine and glutamine metabolism in relation to seizure
activity. He is also well known for his techniques for methods for isolation of
neuronal and glial cells from brain tissue. Most recently, he studied carboxylmethylation of proteins in relation to aging. He has participated in many professional societies, including service as a member of the Council of the American
Society for Neurochemistry and the membership committee of the International
Society of Neurochemistry. He was a Fulbright Visiting Research Professor at
the School of Medicine in Montevideo, Uruguay, an Organization of American
States fellow in Brazil, and a National Academy of Sciences lecturer in Yugoslavia. He was a UNESCO lecturer in Venezuela and was awarded a Fogarty International Health Scientist Award to the Claude Bernard University in Lyon,
France. Because of his remarkable facility in languages, Dr. Sellinger often
lectured in the language of the country he was visiting when abroad.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist by naming Otto
Sellinger research scientist emeritus.
Degrees
The following recommendations were submitted with respect to degrees:
the May 1995 doctoral degree list, the final degree list for the December 1994
Law School commencement, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees. The following recommendations for honorary degrees
were submitted: Rudolph Arnheim, William G. Bowen, and Marian Wright
Edelman.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by
Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Chancellor Renick introduced Mr. Kenoye Eke, dean of the School of
Humanities and Social Sciences at Savannah State College, who is an American


294




April Meeting, 1995


Council on Education fellow and will be an intern in his office for about six
months.
Venture Capital Stock Distribution Management
Regent McFee moved that the University participate in the Distribution
Management Service offered by the Common Fund's companion organization,
Endowment Advisors, Inc., with Warburg, Pincus Counsellors, Inc., as the
investment manager. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Estate of Helen Weber - Real Estate
The Regents were informed that Executive Vice President Womack had
approved the sale of a parcel of land located in Section 24, Ely Township,
Marquette County, Michigan. This parcel had been bequeathed in the will of
Helen F. Weber in 1973.
Vacant Lot in Lakewood Shores, losco County, Michigan
Regent Newman moved the following: that the University sell a vacant lot
in Lakewood Shores, north of Oscoda, Michigan, by participating in an auction,
as described in the Regents Communication, with a minimum bid amount of
$500, recognizing that the sale price may be less than the appraised value, and
that in the event an offer of $500 or more is not received, the property will be
listed for sale. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Naming of the Visitors Center
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved naming the Visitors Center in honor of Frederick G. L.
Huetwell. Regent Baker commented that Mr. Bruce Cook, from Owasso, had
made an initial gift to fund a conceptual study for such a center, and he
suggested that at the appropriate time, the Cook family also be recognized for
their contributions to this facility.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project Phase II Addition
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation
Project Phase II Addition and authorized the appointment of Sims Varner and
Associates, Inc., as architect.
Tennis Center
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university
planner. Mr. Mayer gave a presentation that included renderings of the site plan
and schematic diagrams of the design for the tennis facility. Following some
discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the design and authorized soliciting
bids and awarding a construction contract, providing the contract value is within


295




April Meeting, 1995


the approved budget. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved renovation projects at the following sites: E. H. Kraus
Building; Cooley Building; and Industrial and Operations Engineering Building.
UMMC Expansion of Primary Care Network in Ann Arbor and Saline
Regent Baker moved approval of two projects to allow expansion of the
Medical Center's primary care network: a site in Saline at the corner of Maple
Road and Woodland Drive and a site in western Ann Arbor at 4810 Jackson
Road (both as described in the Regents Communication).       Regent Deitch
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UMMC Off-Site Occupational Health Facility
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the leasing, modification and furnishing of a facility on
Saline-Ann Arbor Road for use as an occupational health facility, as described in
the Regents Communication.
UMMC Surgical Clinic at Livonia
Regent Varner moved approval of leasing, modifying, and equipping space
in the building currently occupied by the University of Michigan Surgery Center
to accommodate a surgical clinic, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Leasing Agreement with Dong-Soo Kim and Sook-Hee Kim
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a leasing agreement with Dong-Soo Kim, M.D., and SookHee Kim. Because both of the Kims are also University employees, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan, Dr. Dong-Soo Kim,
and Mrs. Sook-Hee Kim.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is 5 years. The University
will lease property located at 711 Byron Street, Howell, Michigan. The medical
office facility is 2500 square feet, at a rental rate of $13.00 per square foot,
$3,499.96 annually. The medical center will place clericals, medical office assistants, and nurses and physicians to provide necessary primary care services to
the community.
3.  Dr. and Mrs. Kim's pecuniary interest arises from ownership of the building.
Dr. and Mrs. Kim will receive revenues generated by the leasing of the property
to the University.


296




April Meeting, 1995


Research Agreement with Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement with Therapeutic Systems Research
Laboratories (TSRL). Because the chair and principal stockholder of TSRL
(Gordon Amidon) and three employees of TSRL (John Crison, Jae Seung Kim,
and Sally Choe) are also employees of the University of Michigan, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TSRL, Inc.
2.  The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The amount of the
subcontract to the University is $31,000. The period of performance is six
months. The University employees who will perform the University's research
have no connection with TSRL.
3.  The pecuniary interest of the University employees who are also associated
with TSRL arises out of their association with TSRL. None of these employees
are involved in performance of the agreement.
UMMC East Medical Campus Primar CaCare Facility Project
President Duderstadt called on Executive Vice President Womack to bring
back to the table the East Medical Campus Primary Care Facility Project that
had been tabled at the last Regents' Meeting. Executive Vice President Womack
noted that the only change in the action request from the one presented in
March is an increase in the project budget from $26,660,000 to $28,160,000.
Mr. Doug Hanna presented a new recommended option for this project. He
displayed the original recommendation for reference, along with a rendering of
the new recommended option, showing front, side, and rear elevations and the
perspective of the building as approached from the front. He described in detail
the proposed changes from the original, which include moving the stair elements,
changing the roof pitch, rotating the entrance canopy 45 degrees, rotating the
roof structure over the atrium 45 degrees, changing the columns to brick and
limestone, and not associating the clock tower with this design at this time.
Regent Power moved approval of the revised design for the East Medical
Campus Primary Care Facility Project, the revised budget of $28,160,000, the
construction strategy for expediting the schedule, and authorization for soliciting
bids and awarding construction contracts for the five packages, as described in
the Regents' Communication submitted at the March 1995 Regents' Meeting.
Regent Newman seconded the motion.
There followed some discussion in which Regents McFee and Power
expressed appreciation for the patience and speed with which Mr. Hanna and his
associates had prepared a revised design and renderings to present to the
Regents. Regent Baker commented that it was "first class work" that remedied a
number of issues that had been raised about the original design. The vote was
then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


297




April Meeting, 1995


Comments about Associate Vice President Chandler Matthews
Executive Vice President Womack observed that this would be the last meeting Associate Vice President Matthews would attend, as he would be retiring
after 25 years of service. He stated that Associate Vice President Matthews had
been a close and valued associate of his and of his two immediate past predecessors, and that he would be greatly missed. There followed a round of applause,
after which Associate Vice President Matthews thanked the Board for their
support over the years. Regent Baker expressed the Regents' appreciation to
Associate Vice President Matthews for all of his years of service.
Shady Trails Camp
Regent McGowan noted that during the previous day's Public Comments'
session former campers and counselors had made moving comments about the
planned closing of Shady Trails Camp for children with communicative disorders. She asked Provost Whitaker to comment about the situation.
Provost Whitaker reported that the camp had been run by the University
since the late 1960s, and that last summer, it had served about 104 campers at a
cost of about $400,000. Campers' families contribute about $55,000 in fees, and
the balance has to be made up either by General Fund allocations or by findraising. Some of the funds raised for the camp had come from the state, and the
state had announced in December 1994 that it was withdrawing its support. The
camp's director could not find a way to raise the money supplied by the state.
Three different alternative programs will be held during the summer of 1995
that will serve a total of about 50 children: two in Ann Arbor at the University's
Communicative Disorders Clinic, and one for children who attend the Detroit
public schools at the schools' camp on North Lake in Chelsea.
Provost Whitaker pointed out that the Shady Trails Camp was a service
program, not connected with the University's educational or research missions.
However, these children will continue to be served, with plans underway to serve
even more children in coming years. Regent McFee commented that the camping experience was very important to the children, and she hoped that this would
be able to be continued. Provost Whitaker responded that the camp's director
was hoping to find a way to provide a camping experience.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on May 18 and 19, 1995. Regents' expenses for the month
of March 1995 totaled $1,212.24.
Interim Secretary of the University


298




MAY MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 18, 1995
The Regents met at 10:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, and Power. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President Womack, and
Provost Whitaker were also present, as were Vice Presidents Harrison and
Hartford. Regent Varner, Vice Presidents Kinnear and Neal and Chancellors
Nelms and Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
Homing, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
May 18, 1995, to consider material exempt from discussion or disclosure
by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt
material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents then proceeded to meet in executive session.
The meeting reconvened in public session at 1:50 p.m. in the Regents'
Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Homing,
McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Jensen, Provost
Whitaker, and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as were Vice
Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and
Renick.
President's Report
Federal Budget Outlook. President Duderstadt commented on the
implications that the current efforts to balance the federal budget will have on
the University's budget. Current projections call for a 30 percent reduction in the
basic research budget over the course of the next several years. Major agencies,
including the Departments of Commerce, Energy, and Transportation, are targeted for elimination and a new, cabinet-level department of science is being proposed. Major funding agencies, such as the National Science Foundation (NSF),
will also share in the budget cuts, including the proposed elimination of an entire
directorate in the social and behavioral sciences in the NSF. This is of great
concern to the University of Michigan, with its status as a national leader in
social science research. Other agencies having to do with engineering and
computer science have also been targeted for deep cuts. Cuts in Medicare and
student financial aid also have grave implications for higher education. This


299




May Meeting, 1995


volatile, rapidly changing environment has enormous implications for research
universities such as the University of Michigan.
State Appropriations Outlook. At the state level, President Duderstadt
observed that recent proposals have been encouraging, offering the first appropriations increases above the inflation rate in five years. In addition, the previously proposed funding reductions related to the University of Michigan's
instate/out-of-state enrollment ratio have been restored by the House Appropriations Committee. These proposals now are slated for action by the Senate Appropriations Committee and then will continue through the approval process. He
observed that the efforts of friends and alumni around the state have been of
enormous benefit in trying to improve the budget outlook, as have the help of
President David Adamany of Wayne State University and President William
Shelton of Eastern Michigan University.
Intercollegiate Athletics. President Duderstadt observed that there had
been considerable publicity in the previous few weeks over an incident that had
led to the resignation of head football coach Gary Moeller. He said that both he
and athletic director Joe Roberson had agreed with Coach Moeller's decision to
resign. He noted that his primary responsibility in intercollegiate athletics is his
concern for the integrity of the University's programs and for the welfare of the
student athletes involved in them. He commended the Board of Regents for its
strong support and Mr. Roberson for the courage and skill with which he
handled the incident. He noted that Mr. Lloyd Carr had been named interim
coach but that the search for the permanent coach was expected to be concluded
at the end of the 1995 season. He conveyed his strongest possible support for
Coach Carr and the rest of the coaching staff as they proceed with the upcoming
fall season.
Regent Baker expressed his gratitude to the governor and the legislature for
their support for the University in the latest round of budget negotiations.
Provost's Report
Provost Whitaker observed that a faculty tenure committee had prepared a
document on the meaning of tenure, and that the Senate Assembly had recently
adopted this document as an expression of its view of the meaning of tenure.
Provost Whitaker had expressed to the Senate Assembly his concerns that the
document focused more intently on privileges than on responsibilities, and that it
was this document, rather than the existing statement on appointment and
promotion of faculty, that reflected their position on this issue. The latter
document, "Qualifications for Appointment and Promotion in the Several
Faculties of the University of Michigan," had been adopted by the Board of
Regents in 1935 and revised in 1954. Provost Whitaker emphasized his belief
that the Regents are the ultimate authority on the meaning of tenure at the
University of Michigan based on the 1935/1954 document, especially in light of
the fact that the document recently adopted by Senate Assembly "dramatically
enlarges the privilege of tenure well beyond that concerned with academic
freedom."


300




May Meeting, 1995


Provost Whitaker compared the language of both documents in the area of
expectations for teaching and scholarship as faculty mature, noting that the recently adopted document makes a very weak statement about the responsibility
of being a faculty member. He informed the Regents that the administration intends to follow the document adopted by the Regents in 1954 as its understanding of the meaning of tenure, because in his view it provides a more balanced
view of responsibility and privilege.
Regent Power observed that tenure is currently an issue at universities
around the country. He said he has reviewed the University's 1935/1954 tenure
document and offered the following observations: 1) Over the next several years,
cuts expected in the federal research budget are going to cause a significant
challenge to the University as it tries to manage its costs by not building costs in
as fixed budget items; 2) the purpose of tenure was to try to protect academic
freedom, not to build in fixed costs for labor.
Regent McFee agreed, stating that Provost Whitaker's position is entirely
appropriate and that the University should continue with its present policy with
respect to tenure. She noted that it is the Regents that establish tenure policies,
and until such time as the Regents make a change, the policy currently in place
will remain the guiding one.
Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack introduced Randy Harris, associate vice
president for finance, who gave a presentation on the new Mcard program. The
Mcard will combine an identification card with such features as a bank debit
card, long distance calling card, library card, meal plan card, and entry card to
University buildings and sports facilities. Other features will be added in the
future as the technology becomes available.
Following the presentation, Associate Vice President Harris and Executive
Vice President Womack responded to questions from the Regents about the
Mcard program.
Proposed FY1996 Clinical Delivery System's Operating Budget
President Duderstadt called on Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals, to present the first proposed operating budget
for the Clinical Delivery System. Mr. Forsyth began by reviewing the FY1995
forecast of actual expenses for year end, noting that it was about 6.1 percent over
budget on the revenue side and 8.6 percent over budget on the expenditure side.
There is projected a total operating margin of 6.8 percent and excess revenue
over expenses of 7.2 percent ($67,598,000). He showed figures demonstrating the
Hospitals' strong financial viability compared to other AA rated hospitals. He
reviewed the Hospitals' response to the changing health care environment since
1984, showing how these responses had produced extremely favorable outcomes
in terms of the prominence of the Hospitals and Medical School in various
comparative measures of excellence.


301




May Meeting, 1995


Mr. Forsyth then explained the new Clinical Delivery System, which is the
centerpiece of University of Michigan Health System. Other components of the
Health System include the Michigan Health Corporation, a joint venture vehicle
which was approved by the Regents in December, and M-Care. He described the
Clinical Delivery System in terms of its vision, the projected 1996 budget, and the
integrated clinical revenue distribution plan which will distribute net operating
revenue to the Clinical Delivery System and the Medical School and its clinical
departments. FY 1996 budget assumptions include "financial re-engineering"; a
$28.0 million undefined cost effectiveness program; enhanced academic support;
increased clinic visits and decreased admissions with a flat length of stay; a selffunded competitive salary program; increased "managed care"; a 4.2 percent
overall average rate increase; and a margin objective of 5.9 percent. The proposed
FY 1996 operating budget consists of total operating revenue of $901,786,000;
total operating expenses of $882,172,000, an operating margin of $19,614,000,
and excess revenue over expenses of $55,330,000.
Mr. Forsyth concluded by noting that significant challenges will continue in
the future as the alignment of the Clinical Delivery System with physicians in the
Medical School will create a fundamental change in how care is delivered in the
University of Michigan Medical Center.
Dean Giles Bole commented on the challenges posed by the new Clinical
Delivery System from the perspective of the Medical School. Regent McFee
moved approval of the proposed FY 1996 University of Michigan Clinical Delivery System's operating budget, including a recommended average rate increase
of 4.2 percent. Regent Homing seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
There followed some discussion about negotiations that are to occur
between the University of Michigan and three other area health systems within
the next six months as to whether it would be desirable, feasible, and in the best
interests of all parties to pursue collaboration in several areas (see "Clinical
Delivery System Integration" below). Mr. Forsyth stated that the Regents would
be kept informed on a regular basis as these discussions proceed.
Lease Agreement with Dr. Ihsan Ui Haq (901 N. Macomb Street,
Monroe)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement between the University of Michigan
and Dr. Ihsan Ui Haq, involving a medical office building located at 901 North
Macomb Street, Monroe, Michigan. Because Dr. Haq is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Dr. Ihsan Ui
Haq.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is seven years. The University will lease the property located at 901 North Macomb Street, Monroe,
Michigan. The medical office facility is 10,424.5 square feet, at a rental rate of


302




May Meeting, 1995


$14.00 per square foot, $145,943.04 annually (for year one starting June 1,
1995, with a 3 percent inflation cost added for each subsequent year) plus the
Tenant's pro rata share of the Landlord's operating expenses for each calendar
year during the term of the lease. The medical center will place clericals,
medical office assistants, nurses, and physicians to provide necessary primary
care services to the community.
3.   Dr. Haq's pecuniary interest arises from ownership of the building. Dr. Haq will
receive revenues generated by the leasing of the property to the University.
Lease Agreement with Dr. Ihsan Ui Haq (3749 N. Dixie Highway,
Monroe)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a leasing agreement between the University of Michigan
and Dr. Ihsan Ui Haq, involving a medical office building located at 3749 North
Dixie Highway, Monroe, Michigan. Because Dr. Haq is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Dr. Ihsan Ui
Haq.
2.   Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is seven years. The University will lease the property located at 3749 North Dixie Highway, Monroe,
Michigan. The medical office facility is 3,000 square feet, at a rental rate of
$14.00 per square foot, $42,000.00 annually (for year one starting June 1, 1995,
with a 3 percent inflation cost added for each subsequent year) plus the
Tenant's pro rata share of the Landlord's operating expenses for each calendar
year during the term of the lease. The medical center will place clericals,
medical office assistants, nurses, and physicians to provide necessary primary
care services to the community.
3.   Dr. Haq's pecuniary interest arises from ownership of the building. Dr. Haq will
receive revenues generated by the leasing of the property to the University.
Clinical Delivery System Integration
The Regents received information about an agreement that has been
reached by Daughters of Charity National Health System-East Central (DCNHSEC); Mercy Health Services (MHS); Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) and
the University of Michigan Medical Center (UMMC) to focus on opportunities for
collaboration in four specific areas: 1) Improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of clinical delivery systems; 2) development of a state-wide managed care strategy
and integration of related delivery, administrative, and financial resources, short
of integration of assets; 3) health sciences education at the undergraduate and
graduate levels; and 4) health services research. Detailed information is provided
in the Regents Communication.
Williamsburg Properties
Mr. Forsyth presented this proposal to acquire five medical office buildings
and an additional lot in the Briarwood Mall area of Ann Arbor. The University
has been leasing the buildings for about ten years as a satellite site for a Medical
Center family practice clinic, which has been a very successful ventureo The


303




May Meeting, 1995


purchase of the existing buildings and the proposed expansion, he explained,
demonstrates the Medical Center's long-term commitment to provide high
quality, cost effective care in the community, and will pay for itself in 11 years.
Regent Deitch moved the following: 1) that the University acquire the
existing Williamsburg properties at a price of $9.875 million, subject to the terms
outlined in the Regents Communication; 2) that the University acquire lot 10,
including two buildings to be constructed by Beachum & Roeser at a cost of $2.8
million, as described, adjusted for any increases in labor and material costs since
Beachum & Roeser's March 1995 proposal and subject to the terms outlined
above; and 3) a $400,000 contingency for any modifications or upgrades which
may be required for the two buildings to be built on lot 10. Regent Horming
seconded the motion.
Regent McGowan asked if and when the City of Ann Arbor had been notified of the proposed purchase of the Williamsburg properties. Vice President Harrison replied that discussions had been held with city officials, including the
mayor and several council members, two days before. He said he had given them
a community impact statement, and they appreciated that as well as having been
informed in advance of the University's impending action. City officials had,
however, expressed concern about the impact of the loss in tax revenue. Mr.
Forsyth pointed out that many of the patients using the clinics come from
communities outside of Ann Arbor, so this creates a significant positive economic
impact that could offset the loss of property tax revenue.
At the request of Regent McGowan it was decided to delay action on the
motion until the following morning, during which time the Regents would have
had an opportunity to review the community impact statement that had been
shared with city officials and community leaders.
940 Maiden Lane, Ann Arbor
Regent Deitch moved that the University acquire the property at 940
Maiden Lane at a price of $168,400, subject to satisfactory completion of environmental due diligence, using hospital funds to complete the purchase. Regent
Varner seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting recessed at 3:40 p.m., reconvening at 4:00 p.m. to meet in
executive session.
Friday, May 19, 1995
The Regents met at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman,
Power, and Varner. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President Womack, and
Provost Whitaker were aso present, als were Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford,
Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick,


304




May Meeting, 1995


Minutes
On a motion by Regent Baker seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the April 1995 meeting.
Consent Agenda
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations and commented
on  the current state of the financial markets. Vice President Neal submitted
reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of current research
for the month of April 1995. It was noted that proposals were being made at the
federal level that could eliminate significant amounts of federally-fumded
research currently carried out at the University of Michigan and other research
universities.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of voluntary support for the month of April 1995, noting that it had been a recordsetting year in the area of voluntary support. He also pointed out that more than
half of the gifts received by the University are from            out-of-state, and noted that
these donors often comment that "if we are going to continue to                      support the
University, then we hope that you are not going to limit the chances of our
children going to Michigan." Following some discussion, it was decided that the
issue of bequests and other forms of support be presented as a discussion topic,
perhaps at the July meeting.
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for  em ployee   m atchin g   gifts....................................................................................................................................................19,369
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Sciences, and
th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 6 8 3 3
Lily Auchincloss, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.....................................................25,000
Baker & McKenzie, Chicago, Illinois
for  scholarships  and  fellow ships in  the  Law   School............................................................................................... 5,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............................................................. 20,000
Boothman, Hebert, Eller & Yockey, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...............................................................5,000
Nicholas C. Bosch, Wausau, Wisconsin
for the John Alexander Distinguished Professorship in the Medical School......................................5,000
John D. Boyles, Grand Rapids
for the  John  D. Boyles Endowm ent in  the  Law   School.................................................................................... 17,125
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ich igan -D earb orn............................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., New York, New York
for the Daniel B. Burke Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G radu ate   S tu d ies...........................................................................................................................................................................250 0 00
Thomas A. Case, Sao Paulo, Brazil
for scholarships in  the  School of Business Administration............................................................................20,000
B. Francis Chamberlain, Bloomfield Hills
180 shares of Michigan National Bank common stock
for baseball support and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of
Athletics, and for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan....................................... 6,281
Mrs. Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Sciences, and the Arts...............................25,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowship, the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship
and other support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................24,575


305




May Meeting, 1995


Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for virtual reality research and education in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
Church & Dwight Company, Inc., Piscataway, New Jersey
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School of
Business Administration............................................................................................................................................................10,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.......................................................................................................... 42,065
Avern L. and Joyce Cohn Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. and Avern Cohn Fund in the Law                  School......................................................................100,000
Irwin and Sadie Cohn Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. and Avern Cohn Fund in the Law                  School............................................................................ 70,000
Colonial Engineering, Inc., Fort Pierce, Florida
for mechanical engineering support in the College of Engineering.............................................. 8,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Visitor Center Building Fund........................................25,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................................................................ 16,200
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for  research     in   the  M edical  School............................................................................................................................... 32,500
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Engineering Center in the College of Engineering........................................................................45,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the
C ollege    o f  E n gin eerin g.................................................................................................................................................................5,00 0
Chester A. Doty Trust
for  research     in   the  M edical  School....................................................................................................................................... 7,160
Warren R. Dwyer, Brunswick, Maine
for the Humanities Institute and other support in the College of Literature,
Sciences, and the Arts and for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the
Horace H. Rackham          School of Graduate Studies.....................................................................................................5,000
William G. Earle, Miami, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..............................................................................5,299
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.....................................................12,675
Environmental Quality Company, Ypsilanti
for support of the Ann Arbor Flower Show, College of Literature, Sciences, and
th e   A r ts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................50 0 0
L Group Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for   em ployee     m atching    gift s...................................................................................................................................................10,000
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
for the Kirkland &       Ellis Professorship in the Law           School.............................................................................10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and the Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of
Engineering and for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at
Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................................................................................. 76,650
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for   su pport  of  th e  L aw   S ch ool...............................................................................................................................................30,000
Woody A. Ford, Huntsville, Alabama
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich iga n -D earb orn........................................................................................................................................................................20,0 0 0
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for  the  H ill A uditorium      R estoration    Fund.....................................................................................................................5,000
Aaron Friedman, West Bloomfield
for the Class of 1943 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering....................................................10,000
Melvin Geist Estate
for  scholarships     in   the  School of  M usic......................................................................................................................... 15,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for course support in the College of Engineering.............................................................................................. 36,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of
Business Administration and for the Minority Engineering Program, the
Engineering Center and the General Motors Foundation Computer Aided
Engineering Network Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................................... 200,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for  support    in   the  School  of  M usic.................................................................................................................................. 12,000


306




May Meeting, 1995


Ruth B. Gramlich, Ann Arbor
138 shares of Chemical Bank Dividend Reinvestment common stock
for the Ruth Gramlich Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the Institute of Public Policy Studies......................................................................................................5,323
Wallace D. Grant, Plymouth
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.....................................................6,000
K. Larry Hastie, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Sante Fe Pacific Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics................................................................ 6,788
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the Minority Engineering Program                  in the College of Engineering....................................................5,000
Howdy S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics..................................................10,000
Myrl H. Hucker, Odessa, Texas
for the Charles and Myrl Hucker Fund in the College of Literature, Sciences,
an d   th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................  1 0,0 00
Huhtamaki Oy Leaf, Turku, Finland
for biochemical research in the School of Dentistry.........................................................................................22,000
I, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................................................................................................ 15,000
Ida L. Iacobucci, St. Clair Shores
1,068 shares of Merrill Lynch Euro Mutual Fund
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School...............................................................................................15,369
Information Technology Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Robert F. Berland Scholarship in the College of Engineering......................................................7,000
Marguerite Iskenderian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Haig P. Iskenderian Scholarship in the College of Engineering................................... 15,000
Island Lincoln-Mercury, Inc., Merritt Island, Florida
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M  ich igan  -D earb  orn......................................................................................................................................................................... 2 0,0 0 0
Jessie C. James Estate
for support of the Law          School, in memory of Laylin K. James................................................................... 15,000
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for endowment support in the School of Business Administration.........................................................40,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health................................................................................................................ 13,505
Kelly Services, Inc., Troy
for the Museum         of Art Friend's Benefit Fund............................................................................................................5,000
KeyCorp, Toledo, Ohio
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts....................................................25,100
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
for the Brad Kreager and the Michelle Kreager Ringsmuth Donor Pooled
Income Funds for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan.................................................12,272
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 8,910
David E. Liddle, Portola Valley, California
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................................................................................... 15,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for  em  ployee     m atching     gifts....................................................................................................................................................12,343
Ann Lurie Revocable Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................... 500,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................... 100,000
I Communications Corporation, Washington, DC
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
B u sin ess    A dm in istration............................................................................................................................................................ 15,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
U  rb an    P lan n in g.....................................................................................................................................................................................7,500
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education...................................................................................................................... 209,000
Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation, New York, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................  50,0 00
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research      in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................7,500
Louise M. Meffley Estate
for handicapped student aid in the School of Education..................................................................................26,097


307




May Meeting, 1995


Harriet R. Meiss, New York, New York
300 shares of United States Shoe Corporation and 44 shares of Eastman Kodak
Company common stocks for the Harriet R. Meiss Donor Pooled Income Fund,
for the ultimate benefit of the University Library............................................................................................. 10,202
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for  the    U niversity    M usical Society......................................................................................................................... 18,200
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for  em  ployee     m atching     gifts..............................................................................490.............................................................14,490
James H. Mulchay, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Paul A. Leidy Student Loan Fund in the Law                      School............................................................ 5,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for the Mildred Weed Goodrich Scholarship in the College of Engineering........................................5,000
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.............................................................................25,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
397 shares of Chicago and North Western Transportation Company common stock
for support in the Law          School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............13,821
G Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for  em  ployee     m atching     gifts............................................................................................................................................... 6,075
Paideia Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  th e  U niversity     M usical  Society.............................................................................................................................. 10,000
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Sciences, and the Arts............ 5.............5,000
Donald E. and Jo Anne Petersen Foundation, Birmingham
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School............................................................................................................. 10,500
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy and for
em  ployee     m atch in g   gifts........................................................................................................................................................  19,350
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Eugene B. Power Junior Faculty Award Fund in the School of
B u sin ess  A dm  in istratio  n..............................................................................................................................................................5,00 0
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for  research      in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 12,083
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the R    &  B Machine Tool Company Scholarship in the College of Engineering...................35,000
Robert B. and Jacqueline K. Reese Trust
for the Robert B. and Jacqueline K. Reese Medical Student Loan Fund
in   th e   M ed ical   S ch ool...................................................................................................................................................................2 5 908
William B. Richards, Findlay, Ohio
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in the
C ollege    of  E n gin eerin g.................................................................................................................00...............................................5 0 00
Rockwell International, Automotive Operations Division, Troy
for support in the Center for Engineering and Education, the University
of  M ich igan  -D earborn....................................................................0..............................................................................................40,00 0
Richard D. Rohr, Detroit
for  support    of  the   L aw   School.................................................................................................................................................5,000
J. Griswold Ruth, Sun City, Arizona
62,564 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the J. Griswold Ruth Fund in the Medical School.................................................................................3,052,494
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.................................................................5,000
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for  em  ployee     m atching     gifts................................................................................................................................................... 13,580
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and for support in
the Center for the Education of Women...................................................................................................................860,747
Smith Kline Beecham, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
for the Unit Dose Drug System              Project Fund in the College of Pharmacy...................................... 11,500
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education...................................................................................................................... 150,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint.............................................................5,893
North America Corporation, Troy
for research in the College of Engineering............................................................................................................ 19,600
W, Inc., Transportation Electronics Division, Farmington Hills
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Faculty Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration..................................................................................................... 10,000


308




May Meeting, 1995


Joel D. Tauber, Southfield
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business
Adm  inistration  and  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................... 800,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for optical sciences research in the College of Engineering.............................................................62,305
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for  research   in   th e  M edical  School...................................................................................................................................  5,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for student aid and the MBA Peace Corp Fund, School of Business Administration...............30,000
Union Texas Petroleum, Houston, Texas
for the Krips Endowment in the School of Education.............................................................................. 12,500
Unisys Corporation, Bismarck, North Dakota
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the
C ollege   of   E n gin eerin g...................................................................................................................................................................5,000
United Cerebral Palsy, New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School.................................................................................................................................  25,000
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.0...................................... 700
Lawson Valentine Foundation, West Hartford, Connecticut
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration.......................................25,000
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt and Howlett, Grand Rapids
for   W U O M /W V G R....................................................................................................................................................8,910
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee   m atchin g   gifts.......................................................................................................................................................6,940
Westinghouse Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering............................................... 10,000
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship and the Doris B. and
Frank 0. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......................................... 5,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Summer Projects Funds in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering...................................................... 10,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for  em ployee   m atchin g   gift s.......................................................................................................................................................6,725
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................................... 12,500
Zenkel Foundation, New York, New York
for Schembechler Hall and golf course restoration in the Department of
Athletics, for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in the School
of Business Administration, and for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship in the
College  of  Literature, Science, and  the  A rts.............................................................................................................. 60,000
The following nonmonetary, gifts-in-kind, were received:
Holland Hunter, Villanova, Pennsylvania
327 out-of-print Russian books for the University Library
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
computer equipment for the University Library
John A. Thierry, Hill, New Hampshire
serials and monographs on South and Southeast Asian Art for the University Library
Joan Willson, Albuquerque, New Mexico
papers of the late Dr. J. Robert Willson for the Bentley Historical Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the fol~
lowing donors:
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor                         James Hatfield, Westland
Mohamad Arif, Detroit                                Jay Medical, Ltd., Boulder, Colorado
H. D. Cameron, Ann Arbor                             Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Richard J. Frank, Detroit                            Clarence Pipgras. Adrian
Peter R. Gluck, Flint                                Joseph L. Rife, Ann Arbor
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor


309




May Meeting, 1995


Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker submitted personnel reports including the annual recommendations for promotions to the ranks of professor,
associate professor, and assistant professor. He described the process by which
candidates are reviewed for promotion. Of the 135 recommendations from            the
Ann Arbor campus, 37 cases, or 30.4 percent, are women. At the request of
Regent McGowan, Provost Whitaker agreed to provide more information as to
how the increase in the number of women'is distributed among the schools and
colleges.
Provost Whitaker responded to further questions from the Regents about
the promotion process and expectations for tenure, and then reviewed several
specific cases. Chancellor Renick submitted three promotion recommendations,
and Chancellor Nelms submitted ten.
PROMOTIONS TO
THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR,
AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1995
School of Business Administration
Cox, Taylor, Jr., from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources
Management, without tenure, to Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resources Management, with tenure
Johnson, Michael D., from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor of
Marketing, with tenure
Lafontaine, Francine, from Assistant Professor of Business Economics to Associate Professor of
Business Economics, without tenure
Masten, Scott E., from Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure,
to Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure
Mitchell, William G., from Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy, with tenure
Oswald, Lynda J., from Assistant Professor of Business Law to Associate Professor of Business
Law, with tenure
School of Dentistry
Franceschi, Renny T., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry,
and Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Assistant Professor of Biological
Chemistry, Medical School
Rutherford, Robert B., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, to Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure
School of Education
Craig, Holly K., from Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, to Professor of Education,
with tenure
Moss, Pamela A, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education,
with tenure
College of Engineering
Carroll, Mary A., from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic,
and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of
Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Coffey, John T., from Assistant Professor of Electricial Engineering and Computer Science to
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure


310




May Meeting, 1995


Dutta, Debasish, from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Hulbert, Gregory M., from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure
Kauffman, Charles W., from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Laine, Richard M., from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Materials Science and
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Linderman, Jennifer J., from Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering to Associate Professor
of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
Perlin, Marc, from Assistant Professor of Ocean Engineering to Associate Professor of Ocean
Engineering, with tenure
Prakash, Atul, from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science to
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Tommelein, Iris D., from Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering to Associate Professor of Civil
Engineering, with tenure
Troesch, Armin W., from Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering,
with tenure, to Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure
Washabaugh, Peter D., from Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering to Associate Professor
of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Yalisove, Steven M., from Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering to Associate
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure
School of Information and Library Studies
Warner, Amy J., from Assistant Professor of Information and Library Studies to Associate
Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Awkward, Michael, from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and
Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, to Professor of English Language and
Literature and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure
Bahti, Timothy H., from Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and
Comparative Literature, with tenure, to Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures
and Comparative Literature, with tenure
Berridge, Kent C., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
Bonner, Michael D., from Assistant Professor of Islamic History to Associate Professor of Islamic
History, with tenure
Bregman, Joel N., from Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, to Professor of
Astronomy, with tenure
Burbank, Jane R., from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, Residential College, to Professor of History, with tenure, and
Professor of History, with tenure, Residential College
Canning, Kathleen M., from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History,
with tenure
Cohen, Hubert I., from Associate Professor of Humanities, with tenure, Residential College, to
Professor of Humanities, with tenure, Residential College
Cole, Juan R., from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor of History,
with tenure
Florida, Nancy K., from Assistant Professor of Indonesian Languages and Literature to Associate
Professor of Indonesian Languages and Literature, with tenure
Fogel, Robert D., from Associate Professor of Botany, with tenure, to Professor of Botany,
with tenure
Fossum, Jarl E., from Associate Professor of New Testament Studies, with tenure, to Professor of
New Testament Studies, with tenure


311




May Meeting, 1995


Glick, Gary D., from Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure
Gogek, Fatma M., from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
Hart, Janet C., from Assistant Professor of Sociology and Women's Studies to Associate Professor
of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure
Herzog, Donald J., from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, to
Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School
Hume, Richard I., from Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor of Biology,
with tenure
Lewis, Earl, from Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with
tenure, to Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure
Lockwood, William G., from Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, to Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
Morley, Helen J., from Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, to Professor of Linguistics,
with tenure
Nori, Franco M., from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics,
with tenure
Paul, William J., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Film and
Video Studies, without tenure, to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
and Film and Video Studies, with tenure
Paulson, William R., from Associate Professor of French, with tenure, to Professor of French,
with tenure
Pinch, Adela N., from Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies,
with tenure
Rolston, David L., from Assistant Professor of Chinese Language and Literature to Associate
Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure
Schiefelbein, John W., Jr., from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology,
with tenure
Sears, Elizabeth L., from Assistant Professor of History of Art to Associate Professor of History
of Art, with tenure
Shapiro, Matthew D., from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor of
Economics, with tenure
Somers, Margaret R., from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
Spatzier, Ralf J., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Stembridge, John R., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Stoler, Ann L., from Associate Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor of Anthropology and Women's
Studies, with tenure, and Professor of History, with tenure
Tinkle, Theresa L., from Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English,
with tenure
Toman, Jindrich, from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, to
Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Tosney, Kathryn W., from Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor of Biology,
with tenure
Tucker, Priscilla Ki, from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology,
with tenure
Uribe-Ahumada, Alejandro, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor
of Mathematics, with tenure
Velleman, J. David, from Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, to Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure
Walter, Lynn M., from Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, to Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure
Wooley, Trevor D., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure


312




May Meeting, 1995


Medical School
Annesley, Thomas M., from Associate Professor of Clinical Chemistry, without tenure, to
Professor of Clinical Chemistry, without tenure
Antonuk, Larry E., from Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology to Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Archer, Steven M., from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology to Associate Professor of
Ophthalmology, with tenure
Bates, Eric R., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Bradley, Suzanne F., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Bree, Robert L., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of Radiology,
with tenure
Chan, Heang-Ping, from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of Radiology,
with tenure
Cooper, Kevin D., from Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, to Professor of
Dermatology, with tenure
Dickinson, Chris J., from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Dixit, Vishva M., from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
Drewnowski, Adam, from Professor of Community Health Programs, with tenure, School of
Public Health, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, Medical School, to
Professor of Community Health Programs, with tenure, School of Public Health, and
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, Medical School
Dunnick, Wesley, from Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, to
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure
Elner, Susan G., from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology to Associate Professor of
Ophthalmology, with tenure
Fox, David A., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Fraass, Benedick A., from Associate Professor of Radiation Physics, with tenure, to Professor of
Radiation Physics, with tenure
Frank, Thomas S., from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
Fuller, A. Oveta, from Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology to Associate
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure
Garner, Warren L., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Gilsdorf, Janet R., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Grady-Benson, John C., from Instructor in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery
Graziano, Gregory P., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Guthrie, Sally K., from Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, Medical School, to Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with
tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Associate Professor of Pharmacy, without tenure,
Medical School
Hitchcock, Peter F., from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of
Anatomy and Cell Biology to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and
Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology
Hofer, Timothy P., from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
Koenig, Ronald J., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Kolars, Joseph C., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Lloyd, Thomas R., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Loder, Randall T., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure


313




May Meeting, 1995


Lowe, John B., from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
Martinez, Fernando J., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Mata, Marina, from Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, to Professor of Neurology,
with tenure
Maybaum, Jonathan, from Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, College of
Pharmacy, and Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure, Medical School,
to Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, without tenure, Medical School
Meador-Woodruff, James H., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Associate Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure
Mellow, Alan M., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
with tenure
Moises, Hylan C., from Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, to Professor of
Physiology, with tenure
Mulholland, Michael W., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of
Surgery, with tenure
Muller, David W., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Ohl, Dana A., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
O'Shea, Kathy S., from Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology to Associate Professor of
Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure
Puro, Donald G., from Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Physiology, without tenure, to Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Professor of
Physiology, without tenure
Rodriguez, Jorge L., Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Ross, Donald A., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Sandiler, Howard M., from Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology to Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Scheiman, James M., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Silverstein, Faye S., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Neurology, without tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Professor of Neurology, without tenure
Somerman, Martha J., from William KI and Mary Anne Najjar Professor of Dentistry and
Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, to William K. and Mary Anne Najjar
Professor of Dentistry and Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and
Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School
Weder, Alan B., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Wilkins, Edwin G., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Wisdom, Kimberlydawn, from Instructor in Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education to Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education
Young, Eric W., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
School of Music
Blackstone, Jerry, from Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting) to Associate Professor of
Music (Conducting), without tenure
Cardullo, Robert J., from Assistant Professor of Theatre to Associate Professor of Theatre,
with tenure
Greene, Arthur R., from Assistant Professor of Music (Piano) to Associate Professor of Music
(Piano), with tenure
Kaenzig, Fritz A, from Associate Professor of Music (Tuba/Euphonium), with tenure, to
Professor of Music (Tuba/Euphonium), with tenure
Sparling, Peter D., from Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, to Professor of Dance,
with tenure


314




May Meeting, 1995


School of Natural Resources and Environment
Perfecto, Ivette, from Assistant Professor of Natural Resources to Associate Professor of Natural
Resources and Environment, with tenure
Yaffee, Steven L., from Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, to Professor of
Natural Resources and Environmental Policy, with tenure
School of Nursing
Lusk, Sally, from Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, to Professor of Nursing,
with tenure
Porter, Cornelia P., from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing,
with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Bleske, Barry E., from Assistant Professor of Pharmacy to Associate Professor of Pharmacy,
with tenure
Mosberg, Henry I., from Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of
Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure
Welage, Lynda S., from Assistant Professor of Pharmacy to Associate Professor of Pharmacy,
with tenure
School of Public Health
Batterman, Stuart A, from Assistant Professor of Environmental Health Sciences to Associate
Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure
Connell, Cathleen M., from Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education to
Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure
Foxman, Betsy, from Assistant Professor of Epidemiology to Associate Professor of
Epidemiology, with tenure
Harris, Craig, from Assistant Professor of Toxicology, School of Public Health, and Assistant
Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School, to Associate Professor of Toxicology, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School
Raz, Jonathan A, from Assistant Professor of Biostatistics to Associate Professor of Biostatistics,
with tenure
Simmons, Ruth S., from Associate Professor of Population Planning and International Health,
with tenure, and Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with
tenure, to Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with tenure, and
Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure
Zimmerman, Marc A, from Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education to
Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure
School of Social Work
Gant, Larry M., from Assistant Professor of Social Work to Associate Professor of Social Work,
with tenure
Kossoudji, Sherrie A, from Assistant Professor of Social Work to Associate Professor of Social
Work, with tenure
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Vansant, Jacqueline, from Assistant Professor German to Associate Professor of German,
with tenure
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Argento, Alan, from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Associate Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Yoon, David H. H., from Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science to Associate
Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Alfaro, Ricardo, from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
Farrell, William J., from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
Hanashiro, Roy S., from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History,
with tenure


315




May Meeting, 1995


Jones, Charles A, from Associate Professor of Sociology, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Sociology, with tenure
Silverman, Ronald E., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
Towsley, Ann E., from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education,
with tenure
Vaziri, Mojtaba, from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, with
tenure
Webb, Nancy C., from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education,
with tenure
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Schmoll, Beverly J., from Associate Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, to Professor of
Physical Therapy, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Management
Lotfi, Vahid, from Associate Professor of Management Science, with tenure, to Professor of
Management Science, with tenure
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Brewer, George J., reappointed Acting Chair, Department of Human Genetics, three-month
term, May 1, 1995
Griffin, James B., Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology,
returned to active status, one-year term, retroactive, July 1, 1994
Wagner, Warren H., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, Curator Emeritus of Pteridophytes, and
Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, returned to active status, eight-month term,
September 1, 1995
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995
Boehm, Susan S., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, also appointed Interim Associate
Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, one-year term
Rowan, Brian, from Professor of Education, with tenure, and Acting Associate Dean, School of
Education, to Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, three-year term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Buchan, C. Grady, M.BA, Chair, Army Officer Education Program, three-year term,
July 17, 1995
Farrell, Joseph, Professor of Economics, University of California at Berkleley, appointed
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term
Huet, Marie-Helene, Robert and Winifred Arms Professor of Arts and Humanities, Amherst
College, appointed Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, five-year term
Levinson, Marjorie, Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed the Frederick G. L.
Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term


316




May Meeting, 1995


Manabe, Kazufumi, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, three-month term,
May 1, 1995
Scott, Rebecca J., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of History, with tenure, also
appointed the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five-year term
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted for approval:
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Mosberg, Henry I., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Michael A. Marietta, term expired
Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
Gurin, Patricia Y., reappointed, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Danziger, Sandra K., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998, vice Daniel G. Saunders, term expired
Ortega, Robert M., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998, vice Diane K. Vinokur, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Whitaker presented the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Williamson, Jack A., M.A, Lecturer in Art, September 1, 1995
School of Business Administration
Bell, Lisa A, M.B.A., Lecturer in Business Administration, June 1, 1995
School of Dentistry
Eber, Robert M., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, April 3, 1995
Gao, Zhirong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, April 1, 1995
College of Engineering
Sastry, Ann M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
September 1, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Boyd, Melba J., D.A, Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, May 1, 1995
Devlin, John, L.L.B., Lecturer II in Philosophy, May 1, 1995
Dimcheff, Derek E., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology
Doris, John M., M.A, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Hussain, Nadeem J., B.S., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Kasser, Jeffrey L., M.A., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Kelly, Marc A., M.A, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Roberson, Christopher J., B.A, Lecturer II in Philosophy,
Shulz, Teresa M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Astronomy, January 1, 1995
Spraggins, Johnnie D., M.A, Lecturer I in Sociology, May 1, 1995
Subramanyam, Jitendra, B.S.E.E., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Medical School
Isom, Lori L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, May 15, 1995
Kazanjian, Sahira N., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, April 1, 1995
Shekar, P. C., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology


317




May Meeting, 1995


UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Barney, Deborah V. S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, September 1, 1995
Reaves, Natalie D., M.S., Lecturer in Economics, September 1, 1995
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Blatt, Stuart D., M.A, Lecturer in Physical Therapy
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Education
Saunders, Shari L., from Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, to Program
Manager, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, August 8, 1995
Medical School
Fukunaga, Nina, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, April 1, 1995
Jaffe, Craig A, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, March 1, 1995
Wojno, Kirk J., Assistant Professor of Pathology, also appointed Assistant Professor of Surgery,
January 1, 1995
Yanik, Gregory A, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, January 1, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Kazarian, Dickran A, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, personal leave
College of Engineering
Woo, Anthony C., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, leave
without salary, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
English, Hubert M., Jr., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
retirement furlough
Fulton, Alice, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Konigsberg, Ira, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Director,
Program in Film and Video Studies, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1995
Oppers, Stefan E., Assistant Professor of Economics, leave without salary
Payne, Robert B., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator of Birds, Museum of Zoology,
duty off campus, October 1-December 10, 1995
Pinch, Adela N., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies,
leave without salary
Ross, Marlon B., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, leave
without salary, January 1-May 31, 1996
Medical School
Agranoff, Bernard W., Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of Neurosciences, Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, Research Scientist and Professor of Biological Chemistry,
Department of Psychiatry, and Director and Research Scientist, Mental Research Health
Institute, Medical School, and Director, Neurosciences Lab, duty off campus,
April 1-May 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Mazian, Florence, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
March 22-April 30, 1995


318




May Meeting, 1995


UM-Flint School of Management
Taghaboni-Dutta, Fataneh, Assistant Professor of Management, extended sick leave,
December 24, 1994-February 6, 1995
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Cervenka, Sister Barbara, Lecturer in Art, term complete
Donahue, Kevin M., Assistant Professor of Art, term complete
School of Business Administration
Cameron, Kim S., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Higher Education,
without tenure, School of Education, resigned, August 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Syed, Salam A, Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, retired, June 30, 1995
College of Engineering
Kadlec, Robert H., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, retired
Palsson, Bernhard O., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, resigned
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bellamy, James A, Professor of Arabic Literature, with tenure, retired
Bringardner, Stephen G., Lecturer II in Comprehensive Studies, term complete, August 31, 1994
Buckley, James H., Lecturer II in Communication, term complete, April 30, 1995
Dernberger, Robert F., Professor of Economics, with tenure, retired
King, Michael C., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, term complete, August 31, 1994
Lian, Xinda, Lecturer II in Chinese, term complete, August 31, 1994
Linderman, Gerald F., Professor of History, with tenure, retired
Marzolf, Marion T., Professor of Communication, with tenure, retired
Masuda, Rie, Lecturer I in Japanese, term complete, August 31, 1994
Miloslavsky, Yuri, Lecturer I in Russian Literature, term complete, August 31, 1994
Nielsen, Lisa T., Lecturer II in Communication, term complete, April 30, 1995
Ngin, Phyllisis M., Lecturer II in Sociology, term complete, June 30, 1994
Titunik, Irwin R., Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, retired
van der Velde, John D., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired, July 31, 1995
Weinreich, Gabriel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1995
Medical School
Good, Armin E., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, deceased, April 7, 1995
Henry, Douglas N., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned,
March 31, 1995
Rachmaninoff, Nikolai, Lecturer in Pathology, term complete, June 30, 1994
Repola, Kenneth L., Lecturer in Pathology, term complete, June 30, 1994
Rozanski, Thomas A, Lecturer in Surgery, term complete, June 30, 1994
School of Music
Finley, Martha B., Lecturer in Theatre, resigned, April 21, 1995
Greer, Lowell D., Associate Professor of Music (Horn), without tenure, resigned
Schleicher, Donald J., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), and Associate Director
(Orchestra), term complete
Spriggs, Linda A, Assistant Professor of Dance, term complete
School of Public Health
Berki, Sylvester E., Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, retired
Szpunar, Susan M., Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs, resigned
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Proctor, Donald J., Professor of History, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1995


319




May Meeting, 1995


Retirement Memoirs. Provost Whitaker submitted twenty retirement
memoirs.
Ronald E. Austin, senior associate librarian, retired from the University
Library on December 31, 1994.
A native of Pennsylvania, Mr. Austin earned his AB. degree from the
College of Wooster in 1953, his B.D. degree from Yale University Divinity School
in 1956, and his A.M.L.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1961. He
joined the staff at the University of Michigan in 1967 as a catalog librarian.
During his 27-year career, Mr. Austin contributed to a range of library units
and projects that formed a microcosm of the larger changes taking place in the
organization of research libraries. Ever cognizant of the need for sensible change,
he was recently commended for his efforts in the 1970s to automate the library
card catalog files.
In 1981, Mr. Austin assumed responsibility for collection development and
campus service in French, Spanish, and Italian history and literature, an assignment greatly enhanced by his language facility and diligent work ethic. He recently assumed responsibility for Latin American selection and management of
the Graduate Library's reference collection. He also maintained strong relationships with faculty and graduate students, who consistently extolled his responsiveness and knowledge of the collections. Mr. Austin's expertise is also
evidenced by his article in Collection Management ("An Evaluation of a Blanket
Order Plan for French Publications") in 1988 and recently in College and Research Libraries titled "Indexing Price Trends of French Academic Books in the
Humanities and Social Sciences."
Ron Austin has made an enduring contribution to the campus. His highly
productive work style, commitment to excellent service, and broad range
understanding of the library have supported a generation of campus scholars and
created an excellent foundation for future support and service.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Ronald E.
Austin senior associate librarian emeritus.
Sylvester E. Berki, professor of health services management and policy,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Berki received his B.S. degree from Columbia University in 1957
and his M.A degree from Yale University in 1958. From 1963-67, he served as
assistant professor at Cornell University. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1967 as a lecturer in the Department of Medical Care Organization and
was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and to professor in 1977. Professor
Berki served as chair of the Department of Medical Care Organization from
1980-86. During this period, he secured Kellogg Foundation support to enable
the department's health services organization and policy program to become a
reality.
Professor Berki taught health economics in the Department of Medical Care
Organization and later in the Department of Health Services Management and
Policy and also designed and taught a health economics course for students in
the Medical School. His 1972 book, Hospital Economics, is widely regarded as
one of the important foundations upon which the study of health economics has
been built. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Washington and


320




May Meeting, 1995


has been a guest lecturer at several institutions in China. At the invitation of the
Chinese minister of public health, he participated in health administration and
education workshops in Shanghai and Beijing.
Professor Berki's research interests included "Evaluating Community
Health Networks," a project funded by the Bureau of Health Services Research,
DHEW. His research on DRGs prompted an invitation to participate in presentations at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris. He has served as a consultant to a
number of government and private agencies, and during 1988-89 he served on
the Michigan Governor's Task Force on Access to Health Care.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Sylvester E. Berki
professor emeritus of health services management and policy.
Raymond P. Canale, professor of civil and environmental engineering,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Canale received his B.S. degree in civil engineering in 1964 and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in sanitary engineering in 1966 and 1968, respectively, all from Syracuse University. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
in 1968 as an assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1972
and professor in 1977. He is also a registered professional engineer in Michigan.
In the area of teaching, Professor Canale developed major new courses at
both undergraduate and graduate levels. The College of Engineering adopted his
course on computational methods as a required course in numerical methods for
many of its departments. He also developed and taught a two-course sequence in
stream, lake, and estuarine analysis at the graduate level. Professor Canale
authored six textbooks on numerical and computer methods and two on aquatic
ecosystems and biological waste treatment. He is also a technical reviewer for
eighteen influential journals.
In his research, Professor Canale concentrated on limnology and mathematical modeling. He contributed over 100 technical papers, reports, and lectures
and authored or co-authored 8 books in these fields. He also serves internationally as a consultant and expert witness in cases involving all aspects of water
quality. In 1987, Professor Canale was named by the American Society for Engineering Education as co-recipient of the Meriam/Wiley Distinguished Author
Award for contributing two outstanding texts on computing and numerical
methods for engineering students. These texts, with the accompanying software
packages, were adopted by over 100 engineering programs in the United States
and reached an international market.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineer, researcher, and practitioner for his contributions by naming Raymond P. Canale professor emeritus of
civil and environmental engineering.
James N. Cather, professor of zoology, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1995, following 37 years of service.
Professor Cather earned his B.S. (1954) and M.S. (1955) degrees at Southern Methodist University and his Ph.D. degree (1958) at Emory University. He
joined the faculty in 1958 as an instructor of zoology and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1973. In
1975, Professor Cather was appointed chair of the Department of Experimental


321




May Meeting, 1995


Biology, a subdivision of the newly created Division of Biological Sciences formed
when botany and zoology merged in 1975. He also served as associate chair of the
division and as acting chair for one year. In 1983, he was appointed associate
dean for facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, a post he
held for five years. Later, he was named director of the Office of International
Programs, where for four years he traveled widely, visiting students and faculty
at sites of the Michigan programs.
An outstanding teacher, Professor Cather participated in large undergraduate courses in embryology and comparative anatomy and, together with the late
Professor George W. Nace, inaugurated a new course in experimental embryology. For his excellence in teaching, he received the Class of 1923 Award in 1964.
During his career, Professor Cather taught a variety of different undergraduate
and graduate courses and seminars and also taught and conducted research at a
number of universities and marine laboratories. Ten graduate students working
in his laboratory received the Ph.D. degree, and he served on about 100 doctoral
committees.
Professor Cather's research focused on the development of molluscs. By the
experimental techniques of cell injury, cell deletion, and cell fusion, he altered the
normal course of development to study the mechanisms of tissue and organ
differentiation. His publications and those of his graduate students attest to his
valuable contributions in his field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
James N. Cather professor emeritus of zoology.
Kuei Chuang, professor of electrical engineering and computer science,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Chuang received his B.S.E. degree in 1950 from National Taiwan
University and his M.S.E. and Ph.D. degrees in 1952 and 1958, respectively, from
the University of Michigan. As a graduate student, he conducted research at the
University of Michigan's Engineering Research Institute, Servomechanisms
Laboratory, and Willow Run Laboratory, in addition to teaching at Wayne State
University. He joined the faculty as assistant professor of electrical engineering
in 1959; he was promoted to associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1969.
Professor Chuang's research and teaching focused on energy conversion and
feedback control systems. He was actively involved in the department's educational program from his earliest days on the faculty, and he was particularly
noted for his ability to establish a good relationship with his students. He
contributed significantly to the revision and updating of all the control courses
taught at the University and introduced the teaching of Markovian stochastic
control problems in the United States. Professor Chuang's teaching skills were
widely recognized. He received the Tau Beta Pi Outstanding Teacher Award in
1978, the Eta Kappa Nu Teacher-of-the-Year Award in 1982, and the Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science Teaching Excellence Award in 1994. Professor Chuang also served for several years as undergraduate counselor in the electrical engineering program.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished career by
naming Kuei Chuang professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.


322




May Meeting, 1995


Walter R. Debler, professor of applied mechanics, College of Engineering,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995, after 35 years of service.
Professor Debler received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in
1950, his M.S. degree from the University of Maryland in 1955, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Michigan in 1959. He joined the faculty as an instructor in the Department of Engineering Mechanics in 1958 and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1962, and professor in 1968.
To Professor Debler, the education of students was his highest priority; he
excelled in both pedagogical methodology and in rapport with students. He developed a graduate level course in fluid mechanics, created a series of videotapes to
help students with homework problems, and published an undergraduate textbook entitled Fluid Mechanics Fundamentals, In 1992, he received the Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics Award for Teaching Excellence, and in
1987 and 1992 he received the Pi Tau Sigma "Teacher of the Term" award.
Professor Debler has carried out research and published papers on a variety
of topics in fluid mechanics, with a special emphasis on turbulence in stratified
flows. In addition, he has an outstanding record of service. He has served on
numerous committees within the College of Engineering and at the University
level, including eighteen years on the college's Scholastic Standing Committee
and two terms on the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs. In
recognition of his extensive service activities, in 1992 he received the college's
Tau Beta Pi Award.
Throughout his career Professor Debler also nurtured an interest in international academic exchanges. He has studied abroad in Germany, England,
France, and Australia and also served as director of international programs for
the college.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his outstanding contributions by naming Walter R. Debler professor emeritus of applied
mechanics.
Robert F. Dernberger, professor of economics, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1995, after a most productive career in teaching and
research.
A native of Michigan, Professor Dernberger learned Chinese while serving
in the U.S. Army from 1950-53. He earned his B.A degree (1955), his M.A
degree in Far Eastern studies (1956), his M.A. degree in economics (1958) at the
University of Michigan, and his Ph.D. degree in economics (1965) at Harvard
University. He was an assistant professor at the University of Chicago from
1963-68. Professor Dernberger joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
an associate professor of economics in 1968 and was promoted to professor in
1974. He served two terms as director of the Center for Chinese Studies: i
1983-86, and more recently in 1991-94.
Professor Dernberger is one of the world's foremost experts on the Chinese
economy. His teaching and research have centered on the field of comparative
economic systems, with emphasis on the distinctive mechanisms that have operated in China under communism. He has served as editor of Economic Development and Cultural Change, as chair of the Social Science Research Council, and


323




May Meeting, 1995


as president of the Association of Comparative Economic Studies. He has been a
member of more than ten research delegations to the People's Republic of China,
and has served on a number of panels, councils, and committees focused on
China. An active participant in departmental and university affairs, Professor
Dernberger has been associate chair of the Department of Economics and a
member of the Senate Assemblyo He is currently a senior faculty associate of the
William Davidson Institute.
Professor Dernberger's scholarly writings include numerous contributions
to journals and volumes dealing with Chinese development and the functioning
of Chinese communism. In recent years, as China's economy has evolved toward
greater reliance on markets, he has turned more toward issues of transition in
the Chinese economy. Most recently, he has been working on an ambitious project, "China in Time and Space."
The Regents now salute this distinguished economist for his dedicated
service by naming Robert F. Dernberger professor emeritus of economics.
Jason L. Finkle, professor of population planning in the School of Public
Health, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Finkle received his AB. degree (1949) from the University of
Miami and his M.A (1951) and Ph.D. (1959) degrees from the University of
Michigan. He served on the faculty of Michigan State University from 1959-61,
where he was assigned to work in Vietnam as academic advisor to the Michigan
State advisory group there. This experience turned his attention to problems of
developing countries, an area that has remained his primary research focus.
From 1962-65, he taught at the University of Southern California. He joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan as an associate professor in 1965 and spent
1965-67 as a consultant with the Ford Foundation in New Delhi, India, working
with the Indian government on its family planning program. He was promoted
to professor of population planning in 1972.
Professor Finkle served as director of the Center for Population Planning
from 1978-88 and as chair of the Department of Population Planning and International Health from 1985-88. In 1984, Professor Finkle initiated the Michigan
International Population Fellows Program, which he directed from 1984-91. The
Population Fellows Program provides opportunities for graduates of the University of Michigan and other universities to assist Third World countries in their
population programs.
Beginning in 1972, Professor Finkle turned his attention to the United
Nations' emerging role in the regulation of rapid population growth. He received
a Rockefeller Foundation grant to study the role of specialized agencies of the
United Nations in the population field. It was in this period that he began to
examine population policy as a function of politics rather than as an outgrowth of
demographics. Through research on international agencies and developing
countries, Professor Finkle demonstrated that while demographers, economists,
and other technical specialists have influence, politics and ideology, as much as
demographic analysis, drive population policy.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jason L. Finkle
professor emeritus of population planning.


324




May Meeting, 1995


Russell A. Fraser, Austin Warren Professor of English, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Fraser earned his AB. degree (1947) from Dartmouth College and
his M.A (1949) and Ph.D. (1950) degrees from Harvard University. Prior to coming to Michigan, he served on the faculties of UCLA, Duke, Princeton, and
Vanderbilt universities. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in
1968 as professor of English and chair of the English department. He served as
chair until 1973, a critical juncture in the department's history. Professor Fraser
was instrumental in founding the Medieval and Renaissance Collegium in 1977
and served as its first director. In 1983, he was named Austin Warren Professor
of English. Professor Fraser has served as visiting professor and guest lecturer at
a number of universities, has been awarded Guggenheim and National Endowment for the Humanities fellowships, and has been a Senior Fulbright-Hays
Scholar and a Rockefeller Resident Scholar at Villa Serbelloni, Bellagio.
Professor Fraser's numerous books include editions of early collections of
English lyric poetry (The Court of Venus, The Court of Virtue) and of Shakespeare's plays (King Lear, All's Well That Ends Well, The Essential Shakespeare). In the seventies, Professor Fraser published a series of important studies
of Renaissance literature and intellectual history: The War Against Poetry
(1970), The Dark Ages and the Age of Gold (1973), and The Language of Adam
(1977). A critical biography of the critic R. P. Blackmur, A Mingled Yarn, followed in 1981, then The Three Romes (1985). His more recent books include two
studies of Shakespeare, Young Shakespeare (1988) and Shakespeare: The Later
Years (1992).
A dedicated and popular teacher of undergraduate and graduate students,
Professor Fraser is renowned for his lectures on Shakespeare and for his rigorous
and penetrating attention to poetry in smaller classes. He has guided the work of
numerous graduate students and has been a mentor to some of our best
undergraduates.
The Regents now honor this distinguished scholar, teacher, and educator by
naming Russell A Fraser the Austin Warren Professor Emeritus of English.
Eugene A. Glysson, professor of civil and environmental engineering, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Glysson received his B.S. degree from the University of Vermont
in 1949 and his M.S.E. degree from the University of Michigan in 1951. He
joined the faculty at the University of Michigan as an instructor in 1951 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1955, associate professor in 1962, and professor in 1974. Professor Glysson earned his Ph.D. degree at Drexel University in
1972.
During his career, Professor Glysson taught and performed research on
solid waste disposal and management, municipal engineering, and water, wastes,
and solid wastes engineering. He was a consultant to the National Science Foundation, the World Health Organization, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, and the Michigan Department of Health. He also spent one term as a
commissioned officer in the U.S. Public Health Service assigned to the Land
Protection Branch Office of Solid Wastes. He was recognized for teaching in 1970
by the student chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), and


325




May Meeting, 1995


by the College of Engineering for Excellence in Faculty Service in 1992. In 1983,
he was named Outstanding Civil Engineer of the Year by the Michigan Section of
the ASCE.
Professor Glysson's career is known for his devotion to students. He served
as the faculty advisor to Michigan's chapter of Chi Epsilon for 30 years, being
only the second faculty advisor of that chapter since its inception in 1949. He also
served as the department program advisor for 21 years, providing unprecedented
continuity and quality to the undergraduate program in civil and environmental
engineering.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Eugene A. Glysson professor emeritus of civil and environmental engineering.
Michio P. Hagiwara, associate professor of French, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Hagiwara received his B.A degree from the University of Kansas
City in 1956, his M.A degree from Washington University in 1958, and his Ph.D.
degree in French from the University of Michigan in 1966. He joined the faculty
of the University of Michigan in 1961 as a lecturer and was named instructor in
1962, assistant professor in 1966, and associate professor in 1972.
Among Professor Hagiwara's publications are a scholarly monograph,
French Epic Poetry in the Sixteenth Century, and several language textbooks, including the widely adopted Theme et variations: An Introduction to French Language and Culture, which set a trend for other textbook writers by integrating
the teaching of all four language skills and culture. Professor Hagiwara
co-authored  a widely  used  French  phonetics textbook, D'Accord: La
prononciation du frangais international, and published many articles on applied
linguistics and the teaching of French. His most recent textbook, Entre Nous: A
Communicative Approach to Beginning French, was published in 1994.
For most of his career, Professor Hagiwara served as director of the elementary French program and as advisor to students enrolled in the teaching certification program. He also twice directed the Michigan-Wisconsin academic year
program in Aix-en-Provence. Professor Hagiwara's students will remember him
as a devoted and rigorous teacher of theoretical and applied French linguistics.
Former graduate students and colleagues who coordinated language courses under his direction always appreciated his support, encouragement, and attention
to their professional development. His work in language program direction and
supervision remains a model for the current generation of language program
directors.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and scholar by naming
Michio P. Hagiwara associate professor emeritus of French.
Movses J. Kaldjian, professor of naval architecture and marine engineering and professor of civil engineering, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1995.
A native of Lebanon, Professor Kaldjian earned B.A and B.S. degrees, in
1948 and 1949, respectively, from the American University of Beirut. He received
his M.Sc. degree from the University of Manitoba in 1952 and his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Michigan in 1960. He joined the University of Michigan


326




May Meeting, 1995


faculty as an instructor in the engineering mechanics department in 1957 and
was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1971, and professor in 1978. Since 1971, he has held a dual appointment in both naval architecture and marine engineering and civil and environmental engineering.
Professor Kaldjian's primary expertise is in structural analysis, with particular emphasis on finite element techniques. His international reputation has
led to many academic appointments in the U.S., Canada, and overseas, including
India, Saudi Arabia, Germany, Indonesia, Finland, and Armenia and to research
presentations in India, Italy, Turkey, Jordan, Sweden, and Canada. He has also
served as a consultant to firms in the U.S. and internationally. Indeed, Professor
Kaldjian can lay valid claim to being one of College of Engineering's most cosmopolitan individuals.
Professor Kaldjian has taught some two dozen different courses, spread
among mechanical engineering and applied mechanics, civil and environmental
engineering, and naval architecture and marine engineering. His innovative
work includes the development of an interactive training program for work in
finite element analysis and has led to the publication of more than forty papers
and two dozen reports. His contributions have been recognized by his election to
membership in the Sigma Xi Honorary Society.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Movses J. Kaldj'ian
professor emeritus of naval architecture and marine engineering and professor
emeritus civil engineering.
Gerald F. Linderman, professor of history, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1995, after a distinguished career as a teacher, counselor, and
author.
Bor   in Marshfield, Wisconsin, Professor Linderman received his B.A
degree from Yale University in 1956. Following work with the U.S. Foreign
Service of the Department of State in Nigeria, India, and the Republic of the
Congo, he began his graduate studies in 1964 at Northwestern University, from
which he received his M.A. degree in 1964 and his Ph.D. degree in 1971. He came
to the University of Michigan in 1969 as a lecturer in history; he was promoted to
assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in 1974, and professor in 1986.
A splendid teacher whose polished and thoughtful lectures attracted legions
of students, Professor Linderman garnered an impressive array of teaching
awards: Class of 1923 Literary and Educational Award (1977); Michigan Student
Assembly Teaching Achievement Award (1982); Matthews Underclass Teaching
Award (1983); Amoco Teaching Award (1984); and College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts Excellence in Education Award (1994). Accessible, helpful, and
respected by students, Professor Linderman also distinguished himself as a
counselor. He won the Ruth M. Sinclair Memorial Prize in 1972 and the Excellence in Concentration Advising Award in 1990.
Professor Linderman's publications have focused on the United States as a
nation at war. His first book, The Mirror of War, was concerned with American
society during the Spanish-American War. In 1987, he published Embattled
Courage: The Experience of Combat in the American Civil War. Hailed by
reviewers as one of the best books ever written about Americans engaged in wartime combat, Embattled Courage was a history book club main selection and was


327




May Meeting, 1995


also chosen as a book-of-the-month club dividend selection. Professor Linderman
is now working on a book about the American combat experience in World War
II.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Gerald Fo Linderman professor emeritus of history.
Malcolm   A. Lowther, professor of education, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1995, after 36 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Lowther received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan
in 1946, his M.Ed. degree from Wayne State University in 1951, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Michigan in 1961. He taught in the Detroit public
schools from  1946-49 and worked for several Detroit-area corporations from
1949-59. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1960 as an
instructor in the School of Education. In 1961, he was named assistant professor
and coordinator of the student teaching program. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1965 and professor in 1969.
In the School of Education, Professor Lowther taught courses in secondary
school curriculum theory and practice, affective development, and educational
strategies and adult role performance, and worked extensively with graduate
students. His exceptional record of service includes having been assistant dean,
program chair, and division chair and service on numerous School of Education
committees. Professor Lowther's most recent research has centered on the quality of teachers' worklife and job satisfaction among teachers.
Among Professor Lowther's memberships are the American Psychological
Association, the American Educational Research Association, and the Association
for Institutional Research. His publications have been widely cited, and include:
"Midlife Career Development Theory and Research: Implications for Work and
Education" (with others), in Changing Lives, edited by M. Bloom; "Organizational Commitment of Child Care Providers Employed in Center Facilities" (with
N. Webb), Journal of Child and Youth Care; and "Course Planning Exploration
for Program Self-study: User manual," NCRIPTL, University of Michigan. Professor Lowther has also served as a reviewer for the Review of Higher Education
and for Jossey-Bass Publishers.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Malcolm A
Lowther professor emeritus of education.
Victor H. Miesel, professor of history of art, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1995, after 28 years of service.
A native of Detroit, Professor Miesel first trained in painting and sculpture
at Wayne State University, where he received his AB. degree in 1950. He earned
his AM. and Ph.D. degrees in 1951 and 1959, respectively, at the University of
Michigan. He joined the faculty as an instructor in the Department of History of
Art in 1957 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate professor
in 1966, and professor in 1972.
Professor Miesel enjoys an international reputation in the area of German
Expressionism, the result of his Voices of German Expressionism, An Anthology
(1970), two exhibitions with catalogues, and numerous articles. Yet his scholarly


328




May Meeting, 1995


range is wide, from his doctoral dissertation on Rubens and ancient art to a
series of reviews of the latest artistic developments.
Equally impressive is the scope of his teaching of European and American
art from the late 18th century to the present, from introductory offerings to
highly focused seminars, with particular emphasis on the survey of 20th century
art and on courses in expressionism, Picasso and cubism, and Dada and surrealism. Professor Miesel's bursting storehouse of knowledge, his personal
engagement with the visual material, and his passion for teaching have inspired
countless students, both within the department and, due to his interest in interdisciplinary instruction, in other schools and colleges. His continual and gracious
participation in administrative duties on behalf of the department and the University is likewise worthy of note.
A truly humane humanist, Professor Miesel brings to all he does a keen
intellect, broad culture, ready wit, and a quality of truly caring.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming Victor H. Miesel professor emeritus of history of art.
Marcel N. Muller, professor of French, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Muller received his Licence degree from the Universit6 de Liege in
1944, and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees in 1954 and 1964, respectively, from the
University of Wisconsin. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in
1966 as associate professor of French and was promoted to professor in 1976. He
was a teacher and scholar of modem French literature in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures throughout his 29 years of active service.
Professor Muller served on virtually every departmental committee and on
the College Honors Council and the University Library Council. He twice headed
the French section of his department, chaired or co-chaired eight doctoral dissertation committees and was a member of many others. He directed the MichiganWisconsin academic year program in Aix-en-Provence and served as a visiting
professor at the University de Paris-Sorbonne and the Universit6 de Provence in
Aix.
An internationally acknowledged specialist in the work of Marcel Proust,
Professor Muller's publications include Les voix narratives dans 'La Recherche
du Temps Perdu' (1965) and Prefiguration et structure Romanesque dans 'A La
Recherche du Temps Perdu' (1979) as well as many articles on Proust, Paul
Valery, and French literature and rhetoric. He will be remembered by generations of Michigan students as a thought-provoking, witty, and very learned
teacher of modern French literature, of rhetoric, of narrative and poetic form,
and of intellectual history.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar for his many
years of devoted service by naming Marcel N. Muller professor emeritus of
French.
Christer E. Nordman, professor of chemistry, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1995, after a 40-year career at the University of
Michigan.


329




May Meeting, 1995


Born in Helsinki, Finland, Professor Nordman served in the Finnish Army
during World War II. He completed the requirements for a Dipl. Ing. at the
Finnish Institute of Technology in 1949 and obtained his Ph.D. degree at the
University of Minnesota in 1953. Professor Nordman joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan in 1955 as an instructor in chemistry and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1957, associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1963.
During 1971-72, he was a special NIH fellow at Oxford and Uppsala Universities.
A physical chemist, at one time or another Professor Nordman has taught
almost all the courses offered in that area, in addition to courses in his research
specialty. He has also taught general chemistry courses and has served as an undergraduate counselor for chemistry majors and as a member of departmental
committees.
Professor Nordman's research specialty is crystallography and crystal
structure. He has been a co-editor of Acta Crystallographica, the premier journal
in the area of crystal structure and related topics and has been a member of the
Commission on Journals of the International Union of Crystallography. He has
been an active member of the American Crystallographic Association and is also
a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. His
research has resulted in 64 publications, and he has supervised the dissertations
of 4 Ph.D. students and 9 postdoctoral associates. In all of these endeavors,
Professor Nordman has consistently upheld the highest standards of scholarly
performance and teaching excellence and has contributed greatly to the collegiality and service activities of the Department of Chemistry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Christer E. Nordman professor emeritus of chemistry.
Andrejs Olte, professor of electrical engineering and computer science, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.
Professor Olte received his B.S. degree in 1954, his M.S. degree in 1956, and
his Ph.D. degree in 1959, all from the University of California at Berkeley. As a
graduate student, he worked in the Sylvania Electronics Defense Laboratory
there. Professor Olte joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1959 as
an assistant professor of electrical engineering; he was promoted to associate
professor in 1961 and to professor in 1966.
When he came to the department, Professor Olte joined the Radiation
Laboratory, where he designed unique tests to determine the dielectric constants
of tektites and meteorites, thereby helping to establish their point of origin. His
research involved both experimental and theoretical investigations of the interaction of microwaves with plasmas. He has taught primarily electromagnetic field
theory and the theory and application of microwaves. Professor Olte provided
significant service to both the undergraduate and graduate programs, serving on
an ad hoc committee to review the undergraduate curriculum and as a member
and chair of the Graduate Committee.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Andrejs Olte professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.


330




May Meeting, 1995


Lillian Simms, associate professor of nursing, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1995, after a productive career as a teacher,
administrator, and researcher.
A native of Michigan, Professor Simms earned her B.S.N. degree in 1952,
her M.S. degree in 1966, and her Ph.D. degree in 1977, all from the University of
Michigan. She joined the faculty of the School of Nursing in 1970 as an instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1973 and associate professor in
1977. From 1977-81, Professor Simms also served in a leadership role in the
Nursing Health Services Administration Program. From 1980-90, she held a dual
appointment as associate professor of health gerontology in the School of Public
Health.
In 1981, Professor Simms was named interim associate director of nursing
at the University of Michigan Hospitals and interim assistant dean of clinical
affairs in the School of Nursing. In these roles, Professor Simms proved to be a
steadfast leader, guiding nursing at the University Hospitals and clinical affairs
within the School of Nursing through a time of significant change and renewal.
Professor Simms has contributed to the developing knowledge of nursing
practice through publications and presentations since the mid-1970s. Most recently, she has devoted considerable commitment and energy to developing international initiatives with the nursing profession in China. Her unique
contributions to the school, the University, the community, and the profession of
nursing have been recognized through many awards and acknowledgments, including a book-of-the-year award and election to the American Academy of
Nursing.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her dedicated
service by naming Lillian Simms associate professor emerita of nursing.
Irwin R. Titunik, professor of Slavic languages and literatures, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 1995, following 35 years of service.
A native of New York City, Professor Titunik received his BA. degree in
Classical Greek (summa cum laude) in 1953 from the University of California at
Berkeley. He served in the U.S. Army from 1951-54, where he learned Russian
and served as a Russian language specialist with the Army Security Agency in
Arlington, Virginia. Following his discharge in 1954, he returned to the University of California at Berkeley, where he received his M.A degree in 1956. He
joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1959 as an instructor in the
Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures. He was awarded his Ph.D.
degree in 1964 from the University of California and promoted to assistant professor in 1963; he was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and professor in
1974.
Over the years, Professor Titunik conducted research in London, Helsinki,
Washington, D.C., Moscow, and Leningrad. Within the department, he taught all
levels of Russian language courses, as well as courses in Russian literature, literary criticism, fiction, and prose. He designed a new course, "Movements and
Genres in Russian Literary History," which became a required course for all
departmental M.A candidates.
As a scholar, Professor Titunik achieved recognition for his work involving
the "Bakhtin School." In his scholarly specialty, he is best known for articles on


331




May Meeting, 1995


such writers as V. K. Trediakovsky and M. D. Chulkov; he also authored a number of entries in encyclopedias and manuals on Russian 18th century writers and
on other topics. With Professor Ladislav Metejka, Professor Titunik composed
and edited a number of collections of essays and translated, from Russian and
from Czech, a number of those essays. He also published verse translations of
Russian and Croatian poems. A series of his own original Russian lyric verses
was published under the pseudonym Tit Odintsov.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Irwin R. Titunik professor emeritus of Slavic languages and
literatures.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by
Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Williamsburg Properties
The Regents then returned the motion to the table to acquire the Williamsburg properties. It had been tabled the day before. Regent McGowan reported
that since that time, she had had an opportunity to talk with Vice President
Harrison and a city official about the process that was followed in notifying the
city. She expressed the hope that future property acquisitions be dealt with in a
"timely and forthright manner," so that the University's legitimate arguments i
making these acquisitions could be advanced and not get lost by possible misunderstanding caused by the process. She expressed her support of the acquisition
of the Williamsburg properties, as expressed in Regent Deitch's motion of the
previous day.
There being no firther discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was
approved unanimously.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl Smith, director of university audits, submitted the Six Month
Report on University Audits.
State Auditor General Report and Response - Selected State Universities' Reporting of Enrollment and Other Higher Education Institutional Data Inventory (HEIDI) Data - Universities' Fiscal Year 1993-94
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the summary of the recommendation and the University's response to the State Auditor General Report - Selected State Universities'
Reporting of Enrollment and Other Higher Education Institutional Data Inventory (HEIDI) Data - Universities' Fiscal Year 1993-94.


332




May Meeting, 1995


Federal OMB Circular A-133 Audit Reports and Schedules for the Year
Ended June 30, 1994 and Summary of Recommendations and Response to Nonmaterial Findings as Reported by Ernst & Young LLP
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the Federal OMB Circular
A-133 Reports and Schedules and a summary of recommendations for the year
ended June 30, 1994, together with the University responses.
In response to a question from Regent Power about the cost of complying
with federal reporting requirements, Vice President Neal stated that interest in
reducing the reporting requirements has been expressed in Congress. Executive
Vice President Womack noted that complying with these reporting requirements
requires the employment of significant numbers of auditing staff.
Alternative Asset Investments
Regent McFee moved that $20.0 million of the Long Term Portfolio be committed to Multinational/Emerging Markets Energy Fund, L.P., pending favorable review of the documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's
office and completion of due diligence. Of this amount, $14.08 million will be
invested in the Acquisition Fund and $5.92 million will be invested in the
Exploration Fund. She further recommended that the Board authorize the establishment of a subsidiary Cayman Islands corporation, should it prove to be
needed.
Executive Vice President Womack stated that there remain some unanswered questions about unrelated business income, and if these cannot be
resolved, this investment will not proceed. He then responded to a question from
Regent Baker about this investment. Regent Baker pointed out that the exploration fund investment involves a higher risk than other energy investments the
University has made. He seconded Regent McFee's motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Sprout Growth II, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents about amendments
to the terms of the original agreement that had been approved by the Regents
regarding investment in Sprout Growth II, L.P. Details of the amendments can
be found in the Regents Communication.
Disposition or Destruction of Redeemed or Matured Bonds, Notes, and
Interest Coupons
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following resolution which permits the
authorized officers to provide for alternative methods of disposition or destruction of redeemed or matured bonds, notes, and interest coupons:


333




May Meeting, 1995


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
PROVIDING FOR THE CREMATION OR DESTRUCTION BY OTHER
METHODS OF MATURED OR REDEEMED BONDS AND COUPONS
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") has
previously authorized the execution, issuance, and delivery of various series of bonds
or notes, under and pursuant to trust indentures or bond authorizing resolutions or
other authorizing documents (the "Bond Documents"); and
WHEREAS, certain of the Bond Documents provide that matured or redeemed
bonds, notes, and interest coupons be canceled and returned to the University, while
other of the Bond Documents provide for cremation or other methods of destruction
of matured or redeemed bonds, notes, and coupons by the respective trustee or paying
agent under said Bond Documents; and
WHEREAS, it is desirable that the executive vice president and chief financial
officer, the associate vice president for finance, and the treasurer and investment
officer, or any one of them (each "Authorized Officer") be authorized to provide for
alternative methods of disposition or destruction of redeemed or matured bonds,
notes, and interest coupons;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University
of Michigan, as follows:
1. Each of the Bond Documents adopted in the form of a bond authorizing
resolution is hereby deemed amended to provide that an Authorized Officer may
agree with the trustee or paying agent with respect to any series of bonds for the
cancellation, cremation, shredding, or other method of destruction or disposition of
matured or redeemed bonds, notes, and interest coupons as such Authorized Officer
deems to be in the best interests of the Issuer.
2. Each of the Authorized Officers is authorized to negotiate, execute and
deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, amendments to any Bond Document executed in the
form of an indenture or other instrument, or, as appropriate, to deliver letters of
instruction to trustees or paying agents, in each case providing for such procedures
for the cancellation, cremation, shredding, or other method of destruction or
disposition of matured or redeemed bonds, notes, and interest coupons as such
Authorized Officer deems to be in the best interests of the Issuer.
3. All resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict with the provisions of this
resolution be and the same hereby are amended or repealed, insofar as such conflict
exists.
State Building Authority Financing of the Natural Science Building
Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution requesting and approving conveyance of the Natural Science Building from the State Building Authority.
RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR
THE NATURAL SCIENCE BUILDING
A Resolution of the Governing Body of the University of Michigan (the "Educational Institution") requesting and approving the conveyance of property, and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (te "Authority"), a statutory body
corporate created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage, and


334




May Meeting, 1995


maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefor for use by the state or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6, and 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution
of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained
pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Natural Science Building and the site upon which it was constructed (the Natural Science Building and the
site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the Educational Institution and the state of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated
January 1, 1990 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational Institution after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the
Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are
paid in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of One ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by
the Lease as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the
Authority to the Educational Institution have occurred,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Body of the
Educational Institution that:
1. The Educational Institution hereby requests that the Authority convey title
to the Facilities by Quitclaim Deed to the Educational Institution.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be One ($1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations
and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set
forth above is approved and each of the President and Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is authorized and directed to
execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the Educational Institution.
4. All ordinances, resolutions, and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption
Amendment to University Retirement Plan
Regent McFee moved approval of a change in the retirement plan, effective
July 1, 1995, to permit participants to elect to receive up to 100 percent of their
accumulations as a lump sum         retirement or, for former University staff
members, at age 55. Following some discussion, the motion was approved on a
vote of 7 to 1, with Regent Baker voting no.
North Campus Bell Tower
Regent McFee moved approval of the revised budget for the North Campus
Bell Tower and authorized award of a construction contract to Ellis-Don Michigan, Inc. It was explained that a number of factors contributed to the project's


335




May Meeting, 1995


being over budget, but that the donor would be underwriting the increased costs.
The motion was approved unanimously.
CC.e Little Pharmacy Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved an increase in budget for programmatic renovations in
the C.C. Little Building and authorized the award of a construction contract to
Ellis-Don Michigan, Inc., involving the subcontractors listed in the Regents
Communication.
Parking Fees
Executive Vice President Womack observed that a large increase in staff
paid parking fees beginning in 1990 had eliminated a majority of the backlog of
deferred maintenance and allowed for the addition of many safety improvements.
Therefore, only a modest increase in fees would be required for the next five
years.
Following some discussion, Regent Varner moved to authorize an increase
in the faculty/staff paid parking fees by 3.5 percent for each of the next five years:
1995-96 through 1999-00. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Medical Science I A Wing Infrastructure and Laboratory Remodeling
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Horing, the Regents
unanimously approved a project involving infrastructure and laboratory
remodeling of the A Wing of the Medical Science I Building, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Medical Science I A Wing Infrastructure and Laboratory Remodeling
Financing
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
adopted the following Resolution authorizing the Medical Science Building I A
Wing Infrastructure and Laboratory Remodeling as an approved project in the
Hospital Revenue Bonds, Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds and Medical Service Plan Refunding Bonds and decreasing the authorization size for the bond issue from $222,200,000 to $220,000,000.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, on September 24, 1993, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") adopted its Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of
Hospital Revenue Bonds and Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds, and Providing for
Other Matters Relating Thereto, which Resolution was amended on December 17,
1993, February 18, 1994, September 19, 1994, October 20, 1994, and December 15,
1994 (as amended, in the "Resolution"); and


336




May Meeting, 1995


WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable to further amend the resolution as
provided herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University
of Michigan, as follows:
1.  The second "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to include within the definition and description of the "Projects", "the renovation and remodeling of laboratory and support space in Medical Science Building I, including
related furnishings and equipment and building infrastructure upgrades".
2.  The eighth "Whereas" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended by
changing the amount in the seventh line from "Two Hundred Twenty-Two Million,
Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($222,200,000)" to "Two Hundred Twenty Million
Dollars ($220,000,000)".
3.  Section 1 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in
the seventh line of the first paragraph thereof from $114,000,000 to $100,000,000,
and the ninth line of the first paragraph thereof from  "$222,200,000" to
$220,000,000".
4.  Section 2 of the Resolution is hereby amended by changing the amount in
the seventh line of the first paragraph thereof from $131,200,000" to "$120,000,000",
the amount in the ninth line of the first paragraph thereof from "$222,200,000" to
"$220,000,000".
5.  As amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed. All
resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed, but only insofar as such conflict exists.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) off-site expansion of
the UMH Outpatient Chronic Hemodialysis Project; 2) UMH operating rooms/
wall/corner/door protection; 3) Integrated Technology Instruction Center (ITIC)
basement completion; 4) Law Library Rare Book Room Project; 5) a fire safety
project in the Legal Research Building; 6) completion of research laboratories in
the Willard Henry Dow Building; 7) renovation of the North Campus Waste
Transfer Facility; 8) conversion of a number of miscellaneous buildings to key
card access; and 9) renovations in the UM-Dearborn Engineering Laboratory
Building.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project Phase II
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the budget and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding a construction contract, providing the project is within
budget.
UM-Dearborn Environmental Interpretive Center
Chancellor Renick reported that the Environmental Interpretive Center has
been designated as one of twelve projects to be funded by gifts through the
MCampaign.
There followed a discussion in response to Regent Baker's question as to
why it is necessary to pledge student fee revenues to secure the funding. He


337




May Meeting, 1995


observed that in general, he does not approve of student fees being pledged unless a building has a specific student purpose. Executive Vice President Womack
explained that this is the only method possible for funding projects with an
academic purpose. It was also emphasized that the payment in this instance will
ultimately be from gifts; this is merely a device used to finance the construction
cash flow requirements.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed site for the University of MichiganDearborn Environmental Interpretive Center.
Operation of a Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) by the University of Michigan Medical Center (UMMC)
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the UMMC is
initiating the development of a preferred provider organization product that will
be marketed to self-insured employers in the local community.
Regent Deitch commented that Hospitals' Executive Director John Forsyth
is a member of the board of Preferred Providers of Michigan, which is one of the
potential vendors for this PPO. He asked that a legal opinion be obtained as to
the possible conflict of interest created by this situation. Executive Vice President
Womack stated that the general counsel had issued an opinion on this matter
before Mr. Forsyth joined this board. Before the University would contract with
this or any other organization in which a potential conflict exists, the same rules
would apply to him that would apply to any University employee with regard to
conflicts of interest. Regent Deitch asked to see a copy of the opinion.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
TSRL, under which TSRL will subcontract with the University of Michigan to
perform a portion of the work for a project granted to TSRL by the U.S. Department of Defense. Because several University employees (Gordon Amidon, John
Crison, Jae Seung Kim, and Sally Choe) are also either employees or officers of
TSRL, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and TSRL. The
University employees who will perform the University's research efforts have
no connection with TSRL.
2.  The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The amount of the
subcontract to the University is $21,790; the period of performance is six
months.
3.  The pecuniary interest of the individuals disclosed arises solely by virtue of
their employment or other relationship with TSRL.


338




May Meeting, 1995


Purchasing Agreement between the University of Michigan and Integrated Sensing Systems, Inc. (ISSYS)
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing agreement between the University of Michigan and ISSYS. Because two University of Michigan faculty members, Kensall D.
Wise and Khalil Najafi, also are members of the board of directors and shareholders in ISSYS, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and ISSYS.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University
policy. No work will be performed by the University under this agreement.
3.   Neither of the disclosed individuals will receive compensation from the
University or from ISSYS from this agreement. Their sole pecuniary interest
arises from their equity ownership in ISSYS.
4.   The cost of the contract to the University is $492,150; the period of performance is 18 months.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Matrigen, Inc.
Vice President Neal reported that this agreement is expected to serve as a
model for other such agreements that might occur in the future. President
Duderstadt suggested that Dr. Steven Goldstein, one of the founders of Matrigen
and a University faculty member, be invited to come to the next meeting for a
more thorough discussion of this topic.
Vice President Neal described the nature of the project to be undertaken as
a result of the proposed agreement. Regent Newman suggested that the whole
notion of the University's policies in the area of intellectual property, technology
transfer, and related issues be presented as an area of discussion. President
Duderstadt suggested that this discussion be integrated with the discussion of
Matrigen.
Regent Power moved approval of the University's entering into a research
agreement with Matrigen, Inc. Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously. Because several University faculty members (Steven
Goldstein, Jeffrey Bonadio, and Robert Levy) are also founders and owners of
45-50 percent of the outstanding stock of Matrigen, this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Matrigen, Inc.
2.   Terms of the agreement will be consistent with University policy regarding research contracts. Intellectual property rights will be governed by the terms of
the license agreement. The research project is proposed over a twelve month period at a total cost of $927,883. The budget includes $624,296 of direct costs and
$303,587 of indirect cost. Collection of $222,269 of the indirect cost will be deferred for five years from the start of the project. This deferment will allow


339




May Meeting, 1995


sufficient direct cost to be available to conduct the project within the funding
limitations of Matrigen and its investors.
3.   The founders will not receive direct compensation, beyond their equity shares,
from Matrigen but will have a portion of their University effort supported by
this research project (Bonadio, 80%, and Goldstein and Levy, 20% each).
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Matrigen, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan
and Matrigen, Inc. Because the co-inventors of the technologies to be licensed
(Dr. Jeffrey Bonadio, Dr. Steven A     Goldstein, and Dr. Robert J. Levy-"the
Founders") are both University employees and founders and equity owners of
Matrigen, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Matrigen, Inc.,
a company in which Drs. Bonadio, Goldstein, and Levy hold an equity interest.
2.   Contract terms: The contracts to be completed between the University and
Matrigen include the license to be executed as well as documents covering stock
transfers and related matters. A sponsored research contract between the
University and Matrigen is the subject of a separate Regents Communication
(see "Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Matrigen,
Inc.," above).
3.   The terms of the exclusive license agreement include the following
The license will provide the University with a modest royalty (1.5 to 2.0%) of
Matrigen's net sales and its sublicensee's net sales of products, a small portion
(5%) of any sublicensee advance payments, and at least a 21% equity interest in
Matrigen, to be calculated after Matrigen has obtained at least $250,000 in
outside investment funding (all equity interest conveyed to the University will
be kept by the treasurer in accordance with the University's standard practices
for stock holdings);
The University will retain ownership of the technologies and patents, granting
an exclusive commercialization license to Matrigen. The University will retain
internal research use rights, the right to convey the standard governmental
license, and commercialization rights in certain fields of use which are optioned
to or under negotiation with private corporate research sponsors.
Matrigen will use reasonable efforts to develop products, obtain governmental
approvals, and make the benefits of products available to the public.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the license agreement.
Drs. Bonadio's, Goldstein's, and Levy's (the Founders) pecuniary interest
arises from their equity ownership interest in Matrigen, Inc. In accordance with
the University Policy on Intellectual Property, they will waive any personal participation in the sharing of revenues received by the University from Matrigen.
(The non-founder inventors will share in such revenues in accordance with University policy, on a pro rata basis under a sharing agreement ratified by all
inventors.)


340




May Meeting, 1995


1995-96 University Health Service Fee
Regent McGowan moved approval of an increase of $4.50 per student per
term for the 1995-96 University Health Service Fee. Regent Deitch seconded the
motion.
Regent Baker observed that this fee had increased by about 5 percent per
year for the past ten years and questioned the logic of comparing health care
costs for this healthy, young cohort of individuals with those of the general
population. He stated his objection to this fee increase.
Regent Newman stated she was not prepared to vote for the fee increase
without understanding why it was necessary for the University to maintain a
separate health care facility for students under the auspices of the vice president
for student affairs when it already had a separate medical center. President
Duderstadt responded that most college campuses do maintain separate health
care facilities for students and that these are much cheaper to operate than
medical centers.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion to increase
the University Health Service fee by $4.50 per student per term was approved,
with Regents Deitch, Homing, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner in favor
and Regents Baker and Newman opposed. The new fee will be $101.00 per
student per term.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1996
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
approved the following schedule of meetings for 1996
January 18-19                July 18-19
February 15-16               August-no meeting
March 14415                  September 19-20
April 18-19                  October 17*-18
May 16-17                    November 14-15
June 20-21                   December 19-20
* Held at UM-Dearborn
* Held at UM-Flint
Renaming of the Department of Communication
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved renaming of the Department of Communication as the
"Department of Communication Studies."
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board, the


341




May Meeting, 1995


Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Adjourrment
Then, there being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:40
a.m. The next meeting will be held on June 15 and 16, 1995. Regents' expenses
for the month of April 1995 totaled $1,880.20.
Inrr J. e ser
JInz'eri-    ary of the University


342




JUNE MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 15, 1995
The Regents met at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and
Power. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President Womack, Provost Whitaker,
and Vice President Harrison were also present. Regents Deitch and Varner
arrived shortly after the start of the meeting. Vice Presidents Hartford, Kinnear,
and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
McFee, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on June 15, 1995, for the purpose of considering a periodic
personnel evaluation of an employee who has requested confidentiality [Sec. 8(a)]; and considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act [Sec. 8(h)].
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents then proceeded to meet in executive session.
The meeting reconvened in public session at 1:50 p.m. in the Regents'
Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President Womack, and Provost Whitaker were also present, as were Vice Presidents
Harrison, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick. Regent Deitch
arrived shortly after the start of the meeting; Vice President Hartford arrived at
about 3:00 p.m.
Retirement Memoir for Henry Johnson
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and observed that former
Vice President Henry Johnson was in attendance. He noted that although Mr.
Johnson had been honored by the Regents several years previously when
stepping down from his post as vice president for community relations, he was
now retiring from the University and the Regents were adopting a resolution
naming him vice president emeritus. President Duderstadt expressed once again
the University's deep appreciation for Vice President Johnson's extensive service
during some very difficult times and wished him well in the years ahead.


343




June Meeting, 1995


Regent Baker moved adoption of the retirement memoir for Henry Johnson;
Regent McFee seconded the motion. Regent Baker commented on Vice President
Johnson's outstanding service, noting that this recognition was important both
for Mr. Johnson and for the University. The vote was then taken, and the motion
was approved unanimously. There followed a round of applause.
President's Report
President Duderstadt updated the Regents on alliances that have been
formed among the 3200 American higher education institutions. Among these
are the "One Dupont Circle group," consisting of the American Council of Education (ACE), the American Association of Universities (AAU), and the National
Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges (NASULGC). These
are the traditional alliances in which universities come together to work on
higher education issues.
Over the past few years, several new, different alliances have formed. He
pointed out that the Big Ten Conference, which includes 11 institutions, is first
and foremost an academic conference. The provosts of these institutions belong
to the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC). He was recently named
chair of the Council of Ten, which consists of the presidents of all of the universities in the Big Ten Conference. These institutions have decided to join their
libraries together into a single library with joint acquisitions. Learning technologies activities will also be tied together in these institutions, so that students at
all of them can take classes and faculty can teach classes using distance learning
techniques. Other alliances have formed to focus on international development
activities, federal relations, research finding issues, and the "faculty contract".
He also described the Tanner Group, which consists of both public and private
institutions.
Besides the alliances among like institutions, he reported that other alliances are forming among dissimilar institutions. For instance, the University of
Michigan is exploring closer collaboration with the state's community college system and networks with small liberal arts colleges. Universities are also coming
together world- wide in a structure known as the "co-laboratory." Finally, learning alliances have been formed between colleges and universities and
knowledge-based corporations, such as Time-Warner, Microsoft, and Disney.
Provost's Report
Provost Whitaker updated the Regents on the searches currently underway
for the deans of the College of Pharmacy, the Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and the College of
Engineering. He said that his next report would describe efforts that are being
made to improve the first year experience for UM   students. Noting that
affirmative action policies have been subject to much discussion and criticism in
recent months, he observed th  t e problem is how to maintain a commitment
to diversity, even though the tools might change.


344




June Meeting, 1995


Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack gave a report on the restructuring of administrative processes throughout the institution. The Strategic Data Planning
Project involves a complete rethinking of the way problems have been historically
attacked, through a procedure known as "process area management." It strives
to "eliminate policies, processes, and procedures that don't add value" to the
system. He described the structure being used to accomplish the goals of this
project, among which are to better serve students, faculty, staff, and the
community through innovation and improvement of processes.
University of Michigan Alumni Association
President Duderstadt introduced Mssrs. Steve Grafton and Bob Peterson,
and Regent Emeritus Tom Roach, executive director, immediate past president,
and president, respectively, of the University of Michigan Alumni Association.
Mr. Roach reported that a high priority for the coming year would be to increase
the association's legislative advocacy program so as to create a favorable atmosphere for the University with the state legislature. He also emphasized the Association's important role in fiudraising.
Mr. Peterson described the search process that had led to the appointment
of Mr. Grafton as president of the Alumni Association. He observed that in addition to the activities mentioned by Mr. Roach, another of the association's priorities is to serve alumni as members of the University community on a life-long
basis. In particular, this involves recognizing the needs of graduates as they face
the challenges of the changing career environment; this involves a life-long
commitment on the part of the association.
Mr. Grafton described the strategic planning process that had been undertaken by the Alumni Association, resulting in the adoption of a new mission
statement. He reviewed the mission statement and associated goals. He reported
that the Alumni Association, in cooperation with the Information Technology Division, has developed a World Wide Web page, "Michigan On-Line," to help keep
alumni in touch electronically, and then proceeded to demonstrate the features of
this page to the assembly.
Regent Emeritus Roach concluded the presentation by asking the Regents
how the Alumni Association could help the Regents "maintain and enhance the
excellence that is the University of Michigan."
There followed a brief discussion about the Alumni Association. Regent
Power recommended that the Regents meet with the Alumni Association on a
more regular basis.
The Challenge of the Changing Federal Environment
The Regents then heard presentations from Mr. Tom Butts, associate vice
president for university relations, Ms. Judith Harper, interim director of the
Office of Financial Aid, and Mr. Albert Hermsen, assistant director of the Office
of the Financial Aid, on the impact of proposed changes in student financial aid


345




June Meeting, 1995


programs on University of Michigan students, and from Vice President Neal and
Mr. Robert Samors, government relations officer in the Office of the Vice President for Research, on proposed changes in federal research funding.
Student Financial Aid. Mr. Butts gave a presentation describing the
federal budget process and reviewed the changes that are being proposed in each
of the existing federal student grant and loan programs. Ms. Harper described
the impact that each of the proposals would have on students at the University of
Michigan. She also described the advantages of the Federal Direct Student Loan
Program, noting that it had worked very successfully at the University of
Michigan.
Research Funding. Vice President Neal reported that the University is
presenting the argument in Washington that support of higher education and
research is in the best interest of the nation. He described the importance of
research funding at the University of Michigan, noting that the salaries of some
researchers and faculty members are paid by research grants. These grants also
provide financial aid for student workers in laboratories and offices, as well as
finding for equipment, travel, and other research-related expenses.
Vice President Neal and Mr. Samors then gave a presentation illustrating
the effect that proposed changes in federal research funding would have on the
University of Michigan. They also described the federal relations activities of the
Office of the Vice President for Research and described the activities of the Council on Institutional Cooperation (CIC).
Regent McFee commented that she believed it was time to accept the fact
that finding for research grants will be reduced; however, it will not be eliminated and the competition for grants will become more fierce and political than
ever. If the University is to maintain its dominant position in receiving federal
grants, the faculty must continue to submit grant proposals that are strong, with
a high value to society, and the University must continue to strengthen its supportive efforts in the award decision process.
Regarding the subject of financial aid, Regent McFee noted that programs
that began as assistance for students with dire need have now become a way of
life for a majority of students. She believes that incentives should be found to
help families save money for college, rather than to rely so heavily on financial
aid and borrowing.
President Duderstadt noted that Congress has not yet begun to address the
real problem, which is how to cope with the massive amount of money being
spent on entitlements. He believes that "we have lost the capacity to invest in
our future, and to make the commitment to our future that past generations
have made for us."
Regarding student financial aid, Regent Varner observed that there are
many families that don't have the means to be able to save money to send their
children to college, and their children should not be sacrificed to straighten out
the entitlements situation. She added that it is unfair for children of poor


346




June Meeting, 1995


families to have to face the kinds of cuts and reductions that have been proposed
in order to get through school.
President Duderstadt responded that the University of Michigan has a long
tradition of not allowing economic need to deprive talented students of the
opportunity to get an education. Regardless of actions taken on the federal level,
it is important for the University to keep its commitment to meet the financial
need of all resident undergraduate students. Regent McFee expressed agreement
with this commitment, noting that due to the possibility that actions taken in
Washington will affect the University's ability to continue to fulfill that obligation, it is important to continue to search for ways to improve the plights of families so that fewer of them will need financial aid.
There followed a five minute recess, after which the meeting continued with
the public comments session.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Flint Wainess, president of MSA and Scott Sandler, member of MSA,
on student representation on the Board of Regents; and Vincent Keenan, vice
chair of the Student Rights Commission, updating the Board on the commission's concerns with progress on the revision of the Statement of Student Rights
and Responsibilities.
Following Public Comments, the Regents continued to meet in executive
sessiono
Friday, June 16, 1995
The Regents met at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman,
and Power. Secretary Jensen, Executive Vice President Womack, and Provost
Whitaker were also present, as were Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick. Regent Varner was absent.
Higher Education Appropriations Bill. President Duderstadt called the
meeting to order and announced that the Michigan state legislature had
approved the higher education appropriations bill for 1995-96. He expressed
gratitude to legislators for having provided an additional $18.8 million in
one-time funding to public institutions, while modifying constructively language
having to do with the state's public universities' obligation to provide undergraduate education to academically qualified citizens. These actions are responsive to the interests of higher education, while they reflect a commitment to
higher education that is important to the future.
The president also pointed out the newly revised undergraduate admissions
bulletin which had been distributed to the Regents.


347




June Meeting, 1995


UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget Committee Report
Professor Donald Anderson presented the annual report of the UMDearborn Faculty Senate Budget Committee. He pointed out that the campus
has improved in terms of national rankings using AAUP figures. However, according to HEIDI statistics, while assistant professors' salaries are very competitive, those for associate and full professors are not. This is even more pronounced
when compared against institutions that do not offer engineering programs.
Professor Anderson also raised the issue of salary compression, which is especially apparent when comparing the difference in average salary for assistant
and associate professors. He concluded by observing that historically, faculty
salaries do seem to improve when this issue is given high priorit y by the
administration.
Michigan Student Assembly Audit Report
Vice President Hartford invited MSA executive officers Flint Wainess and
Sam Goodstein to the table. She noted that Plante & Moran had conducted a
review of MSA financial matters and submitted the audited financial report and
management letter for the year ended December 31, 1994. Vice President Hartford observed that MSA continues to improve its fiscal management and oversight and has been very cooperative in working with the auditors.
Michigan Student Assembly Fee Assessments
The originally submitted Regents Communication requests approval of an
increase of $0.25 per student per term for MSA and for maintaining the current
fees of $3.93 per student per term for Student Legal Services (SLS) and $1.00 per
student per term for school/college governments. Mr. Wainess announced that on
the recommendation of MSA, Vice President Hartford was now recommending
an increase of $0.23 per student per term for SLS, to be held in escrow and distributed to SLS in November 1995 contingent upon approval of a student
referendum to increase the fee by that amount.
Vice President Hartford observed that SLS employs permanent, fall-time
staff who have not received raises in three years and who do not receive fringe
benefits. This has been an ongoing problem for MSA, and while the current
proposal would help alleviate the immediate problem, it would not solve the
long-range dilemma about funding for Student Legal Services.
Regent Power commented that while MSA alone has the authority to determine its own spending priorities, once MSA sets up an organization like SLS
with permanent, fill-time employees, MSA has an obligation to act like a responsible employer.
Regent Power moved approval of the following fee assessments: $2.94 per
student per term for MSA, $4.16 per term for SLS (to be held in escrow and
distributed to SLS in November 1995 only if a student referendum is approved
allowing for an increase of $0.23 per student per term in the MSA fee cap), and


348




June Meeting, 1995


$1.00 per student per term for school/college governments. Regent Newman
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Student Representation at Regents' Meetings
Regent McFee commented that there had been ongoing discussions among
members of the Board and MSA representatives about improving communications between the Regents and students. She moved adoption of the following
resolution, which she had developed in cooperation with Mr. Flint Wainess.
Regents' Resolution
WHEREAS, the University of Michigan Board of Regents
recognizes the value and importance of understanding and responding to the views of the University's students as expressed by their
elected representatives in the Michigan Student Assembly (MSA);
and
WHEREAS, the Regents are also cognizant of the need for a
more formal and regular means of communicating with students
than has existed heretofore;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the executive officers of MSA be invited to submit monthly reports to the Board of Regents, to be included in the Regents' monthly packet;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the president of MSA,
or the president's authorized representative, be provided designated
seating during public meetings in the Regents' Room; be available
for direct communication initiated by the Regents; and be afforded
bi-annual opportunities to address the Regents regarding specific
student concerns.
Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent McGowan observed that she was surprised by this resolution, both
because it varied significantly from earlier discussions, and because it was being
brought forth at a time when students were absent from campus. She also
commented that Mr. Wainess had been quoted in the Michigan Daily on June
14, 1995, as being skeptical about this proposal and that yesterday had expressed
"wholehearted support" during the Public Comments session. However, given
that he was the popularly-elected student representative she was supportive of
the recommendation, both in its substance and on the timing.
Mr. Wainess responded to Regent McGowan's concerns, noting that what he
had meant to imply was that this resolution would be a good resource to have in
place and it would be worthwhile to try it.
Regent Power clarified that this resolution would not be a "foot in the door"
to be expanded, but rather is a plan that would be set in place. Mr. Wainess concurred with that assessment.


349




June Meeting, 1995


The vote was then taken, and the resolution was approved unanimously.
Vice President Hartford thanked Mr. Wainess for following up on the efforts of
past MSA presidents Craig Greenberg and Julie Neenan.
Associate Vice President for University Relations
President Duderstadt introduced Ms. Cynthia Wilbanks, associate vice president for university relations, who was in attendance at the meeting.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Jensen submitted the minutes of the May 1995
meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on investment, plant extension, litigation, and                 personnel-labor relations. Vice President
Neal submitted reports of projects established and summaries of a selection of
current research.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted a report of voluntary support for the month of May 1995.
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts............................................................................................................................................ 13,428
AT&T Global Information Solutions Foundation, Dayton, Ohio
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering and
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts..................................................................................................................................................25,410
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts for support in the College of Pharmacy and for employee
m atch in g   g ift s.................................................................................................................................................................................$   1 1,12 5
Allied Signal Automotive, Livonia
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of
E n g in ee rin g.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 0,0 00
Amcast Industrial Foundation, Dayton, Ohio
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer
Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Engineering   and  for  em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................................................................7,500
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts  and  the  Biophysics Research  Division......................................................................................... 125,952
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for  support  in   the  College  of  Pharm acy......................................................................................................................... 10,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for  research   in   the  M edical  School..................................................................................................................................... 69,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
S cien ce,  an d   th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................................................8 5,2 00
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................18,150
Ameritech, Chicago, Illinois
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration........................................10,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  em ployee   m atching   gifts...................................................................................................................................................27,493
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for the Anesthesiology Transplant Research gifts Fund in the
M ed ical  S ch o o l..................................................................................................................................................................................5 0 0 0 0
Anonymous Donor
for  the  Cancer  Center  in   the  M edical School................................................................................................................ 5 000


350




June Meeting, 1995


Anonymous Donor
1,500 shares of Upjohn Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................54,188
Anonymous Donor
for the Center for the Education of Women Founder's Program..............................................6,500
Apple Computer, Inc., Austin, Texas
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund..................................................... 5,387
Arco Exploration and Production Technology, Plano, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program           in Flow    and Reaction in Porus Media
in   the  C ollege  of  E ngineering..............................................................................................................................................20,000
Arco Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for  em  ployee    m atchin g   gifts................................................................................................................................................... 5,125
Dana Spicer Axle, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for support in the School of Education, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.........................                12,916
Ralph B. Baldwin, Naples, Florida
for the Ralph B. Baldwin Prize Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts......................................................................................................................................................................................... 5 2 5 0 0
Nora Lee Barron and Guy Barron Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Nephrology Professorships Fund in the Medical School................................................ 7,000
Red Berenson Hockey School, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.....................................................6,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
84 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Quantitative Measurement Fund in the College of Engineering
and for support in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................................5,949
Florence E. Bingham Trust
for the Florence E. Bingham           Fund in the Medical School...........................................................................258,913
Josef S. Blass, Bowling Green, Ohio
for graduate research internships and fellowships in the College of
L iterature,   Science,   and     the   A rts...........................................................................................................................................5,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
310 shares of General Mills common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support of the
L a w   S ch o o l................................................................................................................................................................................................9 59 1
Calypte Biomedical Company, Berkeley, California
for antiviral research in the School of Dentistry....................................................................................................16,000
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for  research     in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................ 8,000
Cargill, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer
Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College
o f   E n g in eerin g.................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
Charles W. Carter Memorial Foundation, Malvern, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................................................5,000
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, Concord, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus Media
in   th e   C ollege   of  E ngineerin g................................................................................................................................................. 20,000
Citibank (Delaware), New York, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration...........................................................................................................................................................  15,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the Faculty Research Fund in the School of Business Administration..........................................7,500
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for  em  ployee    m atching    gift s.......................................................................................................................................................6,530
Comerica Bank, Detroit
for the Comerica Management Scholarship in the School of Management
and for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the
U niversity     of  M ichigan-D  earborn..........................................................................................................................................8,150
Commission on Preservation and Access, Washington, DC
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies.................................................................75,000
Consumers Power Company General Offices, Jackson
for  em  ployee    m atching    gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 12,175
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
114 shares of CINergy Corporation and 50 shares of Schlumberger Ltd.
common stocks for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Fund for the ultimate
benefit   of  the   C ollege  of  E ngineering..................................................................................................................................6,067


351




June Meeting, 1995


Cybernet Systems Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Doug Thompson Memorial Fund...........7.........................7,300
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for  research       in   the   M edical  School......................................................................................................................................6,906
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................................................................................15,000
DeKalb Energy Foundation, Denver, Colorado
for  em  ployee     m atching     gifts..........................................................................................................................................   10,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................................10,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts......................................................6,690
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for employee matching gifts................................  23,982
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Dreyfus Foundation-Glick Fund in Chemistry, College of Literature,
S cience,   an  d   th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................. 60,0 00
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.................................................................................................................................................22,080
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School in memory of Robert B. Dunlap.................................5,100
Eaton Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer
Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College
o f   E n g in e erin g.................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering..................................................... 12,661
Engineering Foundation, United Engineering Trustees, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering....................................................................................................................5,750
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
L iterature,     Science,    and     the  A rts....................................................................................................................................... 10,100
David S. Evans, Chicago, Illinois
500 shares of Shawmut National common stock
for the Joseph Evans Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts.................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 3 9 3 8
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts........................... 160,289
W. R. Flannery, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............................................................. 12,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in Capacity Planning Under Uncertainty and the Solar Car
Project Fund in the College of Engineering...............................................................................................................57,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.......................................................................5,000
Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Scholarship, the Center for Heritage
Education and the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M  ich igan  -D  earb  orn.........................................................................................................................................................................3 5,0 00
Foundation for Child Development, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education......................................................................................................................... 64,637
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for political science support in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A r ts......................................................................................................................................................................................0 0 0
Peter and Evelyn Fuss Charitable Trust
for support in the College of Engineering....................................0......................................................................... 10,000
GS Revco/Lindberg, Asheville, North Carolina
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer
Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College
o f   E n g in eerin g....................................................................................................................................................................................  0,0 0 0
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts...........................................................................................................................,435
James M. Garavaglia, Ann Arbor
for the Beth McWilliams Scholarship in the School of Information and
L ib rary    S tu d ie s..................................................................................................................................................................................... 5,0 0 0
Gaylord Container Foundation of Delaware, Deerfield, Illinois
for  em  ployee     m atchin    g   gifts..............................................................................................................................................6,000


352




June Meeting, 1995


Genentech Foundation for Growth and Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.............................................................................................................. 45,000
General Electric Company Lighting, East Cleveland, Ohio
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer
Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and the
C ollege     of  E n gineerin  g........................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 00
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts...............................................................................................................................................32,005
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship Program..............................................................................................6,000
Helen Glauber Estate
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.................................................................................................................................  10,174
Urszula Gorwic, Ann Arbor
for the Norbert Gorwic Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
U  rb an    P lan n in g.............................................................................................................................................................................. 5,0 0 0
Helene Curtis, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Pharmacy.......250............................25,00
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School............................................................................................ 17,500
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for employee matching gifts............................................................................................................................................. 5,131
Hoechst Celanese Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey
for the William        B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School......................................................................20,000
Robert L. Hooker, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of
B u sin ess   A dm   in istration...............................................................................................................................................................5,000
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................................................................................................5,000
Daniel F. Hopp, St. Joseph
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................................5,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Hughes Solid State Devices and Circuits Fund and the Solid
State Industrial Affiliates Program                in the College of Engineering.......................................................... 10,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Bertram J. Askwith Prize Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
S ch ool  of  G radu   ate    Stu dies......................................................................................................................................................2 2,500
Intel Corporation Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund
in the College of Engineering...................................................................................................................................................5,000
JHA Simulations, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the IOE       Computer Graphics Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................6,000
JP Morgan, New York, New York
for the Associates Program              in the School of Business Administration................................................10,000
Marion E. Jablonski, Stuart, Florida
2,500 shares of SCI Systems, Inc., common stock
or  the  M  arion     E.  Jablonski   Fund........................................................................................................................................48,438
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund in the
S ch ool  of    N u rsin g............................................................................................................................................................................ 10,0 0 0
Lester F. Johns, Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of Crompton Knowles common stock for the Alvin J. Stewart
F ellow   ship    in   the   M edical  School........................................................................................................................................22,350
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Lyme, New Hampshire
for the Class of 1931 Engineers Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................................250,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, NJ
for  em  ployee      m atchin  g   gifts.................................................................................................................................................... 14,600
Steven M. Jones, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics...................................................................................................................5,000
Joseph P. Keithley, Cleveland, Ohio
300 shares of Keithley Instruments, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration..........................................................................................5,588
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education......................................................................................................................200,000
N. Raymond Kutsunai, Honolulu, Hawaii
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.....................................................................5,000
Brian C. Kuttner, Saline
for the IOE       Computer Graphics Fund in the College of Engineering......................................................7,000


353




June Meeting, 1995


James S. Laing, Dowagiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.....................................................5,000
Frank A. Lamberson, Winter Park, Florida
2,000 shares of de Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd., common stock
for scholarship        support for a graduate of Colon Michigan High School.......5.................................6,750
Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust
for the Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the
M  ed ica l  S ch o o l....................................................................................................................................................................................2 5,0 00
Lewis Unitrust, Washington, DC
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of  W  om  en.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 9,0 00
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
S cience,    an d    th e   A rts................................................................................................................................................................... 9,0 00
Little, Brown and Company Publishers, Boston, Massachusetts
for  support     in    the   M edical  School..........................................................................................................................................5,000
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for the Minority Engineering Program and minority and female
scholarships in the College of Engineering............................................................................................................... 17,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering............................................................... 100,000
Ella A. Mahnken Trust
for gastroenterology           support in the Medical School......................................................................................... 155,814
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................13,750
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for  research       in   the   M edical  School.....................................................................................................................................20,3 12
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of
Business Administration............................................................................................................................................................10,000
Walter W. McClellan, Mt. Clemens
for the Walter and Suzanne McClellan Surgery Research Fund in the
M  ed ical  S ch  o o l................................................................................................................................................................................... 0,0 0 0
Douglas C. McClintock, Northville
for support in the Schools of Art and Business Administration and for
scholarships in the Department of Athletics...............................................................................................................5,000
James V. McConnell Estate
for the James McConnell Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....................................................................................................................................................................   13,341
John R. McWilliams, Ann Arbor
for the Beth McWilliams Scholarship in the School of Information and
L ib ra ry    S tu d ie s.....................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0
Carolyn Mesara, Kalamazoo
for the A. James French Endowed Professorship in the Medical School
in   m em  ory     of  D r.  B ru ce  M esara........................................................................................................................................... 10,000
Metro Health Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................................................................................... 10,000
Michcon Foundation, Detroit
for the Habitat for Humanity Program in the School of Business
Administration and for employee matching gifts......................................................................................................6,045
Michigan Farm & Garden Foundation, Rochester Hills
for the Ann Arbor Garden Association Scholarship, the Native
American Resource Scholarship, and the Ernest A. H. Woodman
Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and for the biological station in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts...........................................................................................................................................................................................7,9 5 0
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Graduate Materials Science Fellowship and other support
in    th e   C ollege   of   E n gin eerin g................................................................................................................................................ 13,600
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for  em   ployee      m atching     gifts.................................................................................................................................................. 10,372
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for  research       in   the  M edical   School.................................................................................................................................. 18,750
James H. Mulchay, St. Petersburg, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support of the
L aw     S ch o o l................................................................................................................................................................................................6, 00 0


354




June Meeting, 1995


Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
S cience,    and    th e  A rts................................................................................................................................................................. 87,529
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School and for employee
m  atch  in g   g ifts..................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,92 1
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for  research       in   the   M edical  School......................................................................................................................................6,250
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................................................................................................25,413
Irene Newcomer Estate
for support in the College of Engineering..................................5,000
Mildred K. Newland Trust
for scholarships, fellowships and student aid at the University of
Michigan in memory of Mildred K. Newland............................................................................................................ 18,957
Oliver M. Oakland Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.......................................................................................1......... 13,500
Orthopaedic Foundation for Animals, Inc., Columbia, Nebraska
for research in the Medical School......................................................................................................................................................................8,750
Marion Palmer, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Engineering...................................................................................................................0,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts....................................................................................................................................................12,632
Hughes and Sheila Potiker Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
o f   W o m e n................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2 0,0
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for the Anita Miller Internship in the Center
for the Education of Women, and for the University Musical Society................................................. 45,000
Presser Foundation, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music............................................................................5,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the MBA-MAP            Program       in the School of Business Administration..............................................31,000
Roger K. Rains, Richfield, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
o f   E n g in e e rin g.......................................................................................................................................................................................6,5 0 0
Eugene B. Reid, Orinda, California
468 shares of Unocal Corporation common stock for chemistry support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................................................13,543
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for  research       in   the  M edical  School........................................................................................................................................6,250
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for    em ployee      m atch in g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 10,100
Lawrence G. Rogna, Lake Forest, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................................................................................6,000
Joseph B. Rounds Estate
for the Joseph B. Rounds Fund for Excellence in Librarianship, School of
Inform    ation      an d   L ibrary   Stu dies...........................................................................................................................................5,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for the William B. Taylor Endowment and other support in the
M  e d ical   S ch o o l....................................................................................................................................................................................6 5,0 0 0
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for    em ployee      m atchin  g   gift s.................................................................................................................................................... 11,700
John B. Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
1,500 shares of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock
for the John B. Schwemm                Fund in the Law          School.............................................................................................53,906
Herbert L Scofield Trust
for support in the College of Engineering....................................................................................................................15,000
Sealed Power Technologies, Muskegon
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College
o f   E n g in e erin g.................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
Sinai Hospital of Detroit
for the Plastic Surgery Research and Teaching Fund in the
M  e d ica l  S ch o o l......................................................................................................................................................................................5,0 0 0


355




June Meeting, 1995


Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in
th e  M  edical     S ch ool.....................................................................................................................................,5 16
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret M. and Herman E. Sokol Faculty Awards in the
Horace H. Rackham             School of Graduate Studies................................................................................................90,000
Marvin J. Sonosky, Alexandria, Virginia
for the Native American Resource Scholarship in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment.................................5,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................23,220
Peter 0. Steiner, Ann Arbor
for the Peter 0. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
L iterature,     Science,    and     the  A rts................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................................................... 17,860
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching gifts..........................................................................................................................................   14,097
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for  em  ployee      m atching      gifts............................................................................................................................................... 6,080
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................................................................................................... 12,196
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School................................................ 8,000
Margaret D. Towsley Estate
for the Matilda Towsley Founding Endowment in the Medical School............................................ 300,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
o f  W o m en................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5 0 0
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacology Education and Research Fund in the
Medical School
and for support in the College of Pharmacy...............................................................................................................5,500
Upjohn Company Foundation, Kalamazoo
for  em  ployee      m atchin  g    gifts...................................................................................................................................................... 7,7 13
Lawrence Usher, West Bloomfield
for  support     in   the  M  edical   School..........................................................................................................................................5,000
John E. Utley, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for the IOE       Renovation Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................... 25,000
George F. Valassis, Orchard Lake
for research in the Medical School....................................................................................................................................... 5,000
Jessie Vielmetti, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
180 shares of Peninsula Financial Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1931 Engineers Scholarship in the College
of  E ngineering................................................................................................................................................................................... 12,600
WVMX Technologies, Oak Brook, Illinois
for  em  ployee     m atching       gift s.......................................................................................................................................................5,000
Charles S. Waggoner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Raymond W. Waggoner Fund in the Medical School........................................................................  35,000
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies......................................................................................................................................................0,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for biological chemistry research in the Medical School and for the
U  niversity      M u sical  S ociety.....................................................................................................................................................28,200
Alfred S. Warren, Jr., Grosse Pointe
for studies in religion support in the College of Literature, Science,
a n d   th e   A rts.............................................................................................................................................................................................7,5 0 0
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarship in the School of Education and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................................................................................... 17,952
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................................................................................... 5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................................................................................70,455
Whitehall Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................................................................... 15,000


356




June Meeting, 1995


Joseph D. Williams, Bernardsville, New Jersey
for the Joseph D. Williams Fund in the College of Pharmacy............................................. 10,000
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies and for the Center for Great Lakes and
Aquatic Science in  the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................... 20,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer
Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College
o f   E n g in e erin g...................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,0 0 0
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for  the  S. K. Yee  Scholarship  in  the  Law   School...................................................................................................50,000
The following nonmonetary, gifts-in-kind, were received:
Fred Berean, Plymouth
a hand made rocking horse for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital
Craig L. Blogin, Ann Arbor
a portable geriatric dental practice including portable dental equipment for the
School of Dentistry
Allen S. Lichter, Ann Arbor
a roundtrip airline ticket, San Francisco to Detroit, for the Department of Radiation Oncology
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
books and journals for the Department of Psychology
Edward J. Petteys, Royal Oak
an archaeological collection consisting of lithic artifacts, bannerstones, and Paleoindian points
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Richard C. Todaro, Jackson
two VCR and television combinations plus 14 children's videos and five compact discs for the C.
S. Mott Children's Hospital
An additional eight gifts ranging from       $1 to $999 in value were received
from the following eight donors::
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor
Richard J. Frank, Detroit
Ira D. Gruber, Houston, Texas
Irene Heywood, Flint
Mary Anne D. Kettler, Flint
Beverly Schmoll, Fenton
Steinert Industries, Kent, Ohio
TAP Pharmaceuticals, Deerfield, Illinois
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker pointed out the recommendation of
Robert Weisbuch as interim dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies. Chancellors Renick and Nelns submitted several personnel recommendations. President Duderstadt pointed out the recommendation for Bernard
Machen, dean of the School of Dentistry, as interim provost effective September
1,1995.
Regent Baker requested that Dean Machen's appointment be considered
separately from the consent agenda.
Regent Baker moved approval of all of the personnel actions except for the
appointment of Dean Machen. Regent McGowan seconded that motion, and it
was approved unanimously.


357




June Meeting, 1995


Appointment of J. Bernard Machen as Interim Provost
Regent McGowan moved approval of the appointment of J. Bernard Machen
as interim provost and vice president for academic affairs, effective September 1,
1995. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker read from a prepared statement, a copy of which is on file in
the Office of the Secretary of the University. He stated his intention to vote
against the confirmation of Dr. Machen as interim provost because he had hoped
that Provost Whitaker would have agreed to remain in his position until the new
provost is in place. He also was voting against the appointment because in his
judgment, Dr. Machen had not answered fully and completely questions that he
had posed to Dr. Machen when he had reported to the Regents on the results of
the Bylaw 14.06 Implementation Task Force, which Dr. Machen had chaired.
The purpose of that task force had been to make recommendations on the
implementation with regard to certain University benefits and policies of the
Regents' revision of its nondiscrimination bylaw (Bylaw 14.06) to include sexual
orientation. Regent Baker had not agreed with the Task Force's recommendation
and had spoken against it. Regent Baker stated that during the meeting at which
the task force recommendation had been discussed, he had asked several questions of Dr. Machen which had not been answered fully and completely. Regent
Baker wanted to emphasize that because Regents are elected officials charged
with setting institutional policy and oversight of policy implementation, "any
question asked by any Regent [of any university administrator or employee] deserves a fiull and complete answer."
Regent McGowan responded that at the meeting in question, Dr. Machen
had answered as best he could the questions that had been put to him. She
observed that "when any University employee takes on a difficult task,
approaches it as fairly as possible..., and reaches a conclusion that people can
understandably differ on..., that individual should not suffer any consequences...
[from the Regents] for that service and the outcome."
Regent Deitch expressed his support for Regent McGowan's remarks, noting
that Dr. Machen is "a University citizen of great distinction,... who shows his
continuous dedication to the University... by accepting this position." He said
that he was delighted that Dr. Machen had agreed to accept this position and
that the University was lucky to have him on its faculty.
Regent Power observed that the willingness of members of the University
community to take on extra duties is one of the things that makes it a remarkable institution. When people take on extra duties that involve struggling with
difficult problems and then bring their views to the Board, "the fact that one or
more Regents may disagree with these views should not be an excuse for carrying
out a vendetta against the individual who led to them."
Regent Horning commented that although he had been personally opposed
to the bylaw change, it was a Board decision, and it would be unfair to penalize a
person who was charged with carrying out that Board decision. He expressed his
wholehearted support for Dean Machen's appointment.


358




June Meeting, 1995


Regent Baker responded that his comments were only directed to the need
for Regents to receive fifil and complete answers to questions, and his intent was
not to punish anyone.
Regent McGowan reiterated that it is inappropriate for any Regent to penalize an individual for performing a public service, just because the Regent
disagreed with the results of that public service.
Regent Newman expressed her agreement with Regent Horning's comments, noting that the Board made the decision, not the task force led by Dr.
Machen. Even though she was opposed to the bylaw change, it is wrong to
penalize someone for serving on a task force.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to appoint Bernard Machen as
interim provost and executive vice president for academic affairs, effective
September 1, 1995, was approved on a vote of seven to one, with Regent Baker
opposed.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Furnas, George W., Ph.D. Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure
Herman, William H., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical
School, and Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health,
August 1, 1995
Luke, Barbara J., Sc.D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Lehman, Paul R., Professor of Music, with tenure, and Senior Associate Dean, School of Music,
and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, reappointed Senior Associate Dean,
School of Music, one-year term, September 1, 1995
McClamroch, N. Harris, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Aerospace
Engineering, reappointed Chair, Department of Aerospace Engineering, six-month term
Papalambros, Panos Y., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, reappointed Chair,
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, three-year term,
Paul, Ara G., Professor of Pharmacognosy, with tenure, and Dean, College of Pharmacy,
appointment extended as Dean, College of Pharmacy, six-month term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Herrmann, Anne C., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, also appointed Interim Director, Women's Studies Program, one-year
term, September 1, 1995


359



