
JANUARY MEETING, 1870.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Wednesday evening, Jan. 5, 1870. i
The Board of Regents met pursuant to adjournment of
Sept. 23, 1869.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey,
Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert and Burt.
The meeting was opened by the reading of the scriptures
and prayer.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved.
The Regents elect, Messrs. Estabrook and McGowan,
being present, the oath of office was administered to them by
Regent Walker.
Regent Willard offered the following:
Resolved, That Regents McGowan and Estabrook be
appointed to fill the positions on committees respectively
occupied during their term of office by Regents Johnson and
Sill.
On motion, referred to a committee of three, named by
the chair as follows: Regents Walker, Willard and Burt.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the report of Committee
on Gymnasium was made the special order for 8 - o'clock
tomorrow morning.
Regent Gilbert, from the Committee on heating the Law
and Medical buildings and Laboratory, made the following
report, which was accepted.
The undersigned, a Committee to provide the Law and
Medical buildings and the Laboratory with steam heating
apparatus, respectfully report the work complete to our satisfaction.




2


The lowest bid received for the work was $14,000. This
so much exceeded our estimates that we resolved to undertake the construction of the necessary work without employing those who had offered bids.
The total cost of the work has been $10,007.48, exceeding our estimates $2,000, and leaving out the Museum building, which will require a further expenditure of about $1,500.
Much of this extra cost is to be charged to the unusual
precaution taken to provide abundant boiler and pipe surface,
by which we guard effectually against failure to heat the
buildings properly in the coldest weather. We have sufficient
power to heat both the buildings now unprovided with steam.
It now seems that the saving in fuel and insurance will
be nearly $1,500 annually.
THOS. D. GILBERT. Co.
S. HDOUGLASS. 
The following appropriations were recommended by the
Finance Committee:
For Catalogue 1869-70.....................$1,200 00
Postage................................  150  00
C  Insurance.............................  550  GO
Repair and Alterations..................  500 00
Fuel and  Light.........................  900  00
D. McIntyre, Express charges on Bonds..   4 86
Case for Library Catalogue..............  100 00
"  Contingent Expenses....................  300 00
"  Balance on Steam Heating Apparatus... 2,007 48
This last item to be paid from the State Aid Fund.
Ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert,
Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the following sums were
ordered refunded to students unable to avail themselves of
their benefit:
To  B. A. W aring............................ $15  00
"  L. M. Barrett.............................  17  50
"  Geo. Holbrook.............................  10  00
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
Regent Willard presented the following:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents recognize the right
of every resident of Michigan to the enjoyment of the privi



leges afforded by the University, and that no rule exists in any
of the University statutes for the exclusion of any person from
the University, who possesses the requisite literary and moral
qualifications.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the resolution was laid on
the table for the present.
Regent Walker, from the committee to arrange the Standing Committees, reported the following recast of the same:
Executive Committee-The President, Regents Walker,
McGowan and Gilbert.
Finance Committee-Regents Gilbert, Burt and Sweezey.
Committee on Classical Course-Regents Willard, Estabrook and Walker.
Committee on Scientific and Engineering Courses and
Chemical Laboratory-Regents McGowan, Gilbert and Stockwell.
Commnittee on Law De2partment-Regents Sweezey, McGowan, and Stockwell.
Committee on Medical Department-Regents Stockwell,
Gilbert and Burt.
Library Committee-The President, RIegents Estabrook,
Willard and Walker, and Professors Frieze, Sager, Cooley,
Watson and the Libarian.
CYommittee on niseumn and Astronomical ObservatoryRegents Burt, Sweezey and Estabrook.
The report was agreed to.
On motion of Regent Burt, the Secretary was ordered to
procure printed lists of the Comimittees for the use of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Willard, the resolution offered by
him was taken from the table.
Regent Burt moved to lay the same on the table, which
motion was lost by the following vote:   Ayes-Regents
Walker and Burt. Nays-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook and McGowan.
The Resolution was adopted.
On motion of Regent Walker the Board went into Executive session, after which they adjourned to half past eight
to-morrow morning.




THURSDAY MORNING, Jan. 6, 1870.
The Board assembled pursuant to adjournment.
Present-a full Board.
Minutes of the last session were read and approved.
The report from the University Senate on the subject of
a Gymnasium  came up under the special order and was read
by Prof. Tyler. During the reading, on motion the Board
took a recess to attend chapel exercises. On reassembling,
the reading of the report was completed:
On motion of Regent Willard, it was
Resolved, That the Report of the University Senate on
the subject of establishing a Gymnasium, as just read by Prof.
Tyler, be published with the proceedings of the Board, as an
accompanying document, and that 500 extra copies be printed
for general distribution.
Agreed to by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
The President presented the resignation of Prof. S. W.
Robinson, which, on motion of Regent Walker, was accepted.
Regent Walker presented the following:
Resolved, That Sec. 1, Ch. 6, of the By-Laws be amended
by inserting after the word " age," the words " which shall
not be less than 16 years."
Resolution adopted.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, $300 were appropriated
for glass cases in the Museum, and a sum sufficient to erect a
lamp post in front of the Law Building. The vote was as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Willard moved an appropriation of $500 for the
General Library, which was made as follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 11:30.
On the reassembling of the Board, the President presented a communication from Prof. Wood, relative to assistance; after which, on motion of Regent Walker, it was




Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized
to supply to the Engineering Department such assistance as
may be found necessary on account of the resignation of Prof
Robinson.
Regent Burt moved the following:
-Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be tendered to
Randolph Rogers for the presentation to the University of a
fine copy of his beautiful statue-" Ruth, Gleaning."
Resolved, That a properly attested copy of these resolutions be transmitted to Mr. Rogers.
The resolutions were adopted.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, $161,26 were appropriated
for Regents' expenses; by vote as follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Stockwell, from the Committee on Medical Department, presented a communication from the Medical Faculty, and moved that in accordance therewith the Demonstrator of Anatomy be paid, after the current yeaar, directly from
the Treasurer, instead of in part by fees, as heretofore.
Agreed to.
Also, a request from the Medical Faculty that a dispensing
table be erected in the Laboratory, for which purpose the
Committee recommended an aporopriation of $100. Ordered
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Stockwell also presented the following report of
the Committee on Medical Department on the Hospital:
The Committee on Medical Department are gratified in
being able to announce that the organization of a Hospital in
connection with the University, although at first deemed an
experiment of doubtful success, thus lar promises well as a
means of valuable clinical teaching, with little additional expenditure for current expenses beyond that provided for
through fees from patients.
The expenditures thus far for furniture and appliances
aggregate the sum of five hundred and eighty-two dollars and
eighteen cents ($582,18.)
The current expenses to date, including a stock of medicines amounting to fifty-five dollars and thirty-seven cents
($55,37), much of which remains on hand, amount to three




hundred and twenty-three dollars and sixty cents ($323,60.)
Meanwhile from admissions there have been received two
hundred and seventy-five dollars and seventy-eight cents
($275,78.)
Thus it will be seen that the current expenses thus far,
excluding rent of house and interest on the cost of furniture
and appliances, exceeds the receipts only by forty-seven dollars
and eighty-two cents. This certainly is deemed a very favorable exhibit for such an experiment in an inland city.
Some farther expenditures are imperatively demanded to
perfect even a tolerable efficiency of this enterprise: First of
which is some receptacle for the refuse of the Hospital, that
for the want of which is now distributed in unsightly localties
about the grounds, and that on the approach of the warm
months will very much vitiate the surrounding atmosphere.
For this purpose the Committee would recommend, by
advic.3 of the surgeon in charge, the sinking of a shallow,
covered well into the grave] strata, and the opening of a convenient drain.
We would recommend the additional appropriation of the
sum of two hundred and sixty dollars for this and other purposes hereafter to be named, as follows, viz:
For heating apparatus, either open stoves or grates, as
will best and with economy serve the purposes of warming
and ventilation, one hundred dollars; for furniture and the
well before mentioned, and such repairs as are imperatively
needed, (as putting up pump, dumb waiter, &c.,) the sum of
one hundred and sixty dollars. Also, that the Steward be
instructed to answer drafts for any sum or sums not exceeding
one hundred dollars, on the unanimous recommendation of
the Medical Faculty, for any contingent expense not now anticipated.
After due consideration, the Committee would also recommend that the price of board to all future applicants be
increased to five dollars per week.
C. M. STOCKWELL,
Chairman.
The report was adopted and the appropriations recommended made by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet March 29, at 10
o'clock A. M.
HENRY D. BENNETT,
Secretary.




In response to a request made by the Board of Regents at
the meeting in September, 1869, the following report on a
Deparment of Physi calCulture, was presented by a committee of the University Senate, together with the accompanying
statement: " The Senate of the University desire to submit the
following report as expressing their views upon the subject,
but at the same time do not feel justified, in view of the present condition of the funds of the University, in recommending
any immediate action."
REPORT.
A vast expansion of the scope of our American collegesystem is the characteristic educational fact of the last fifteen
years. One very important direction in which this recent
enlargement has shown itself, is towards systematic physical
culture, as a regular part of the work of a college course.
This latter movement was, indeed, to have been expected.
It would have been more than strange, if, while our colleges
were providing greater facilites for the study of the sciences,
of modern languages and literatures, of history, of the fine
arts, they had done nothing for the instruction of students
in hygiene and gymnastics. For it is impossible to advance
very far in the construction of a scheme of education without
confronting the fair claim of the body for orderly scientific
culture along with the culture of the mind. The mere statement of the great jbject of education as being the systematic
development of manhood and womanhood, really settles the
question; for there is no other spectacle of a want of symmetry in the development of a human being so glaring and
so painful as that of a cultivated mind inhabiting a neglected,
feeble and incompetent body. And the declaration just made
is confirmed by the fact that the principal modern writers on
education-Roger Ascham, Bacon, Cowley, Milton, Locke,
Rousseau, Dr. Arnold, Horace Mann, and Herbert Spencerhave insisted upon the equal rights and the equal needs of
the body and the mind, with reference to systematic training.
Yet, in America fifteen years ago, no contrast could have been
greater than that which was presented between theory and
practice upon the subject. A  Ol our educational authorities
sanctioned physical culture; and all our educational institutions neglected it.
Within the brief period which has been mentioned, however, in consequence of a general awakening of American colleges to a new and larger life, and especially in consequence of
a ripening of public opinion upon the necessity of attending to




8


the education of the body, in several of the leading colleges a
department of physical culture has been established. Already
gymnasiums have been erected   at the following colleges:
Bowdoin, Dartmouth, Harvard, Amherst, Williams, Yale and
Princeton. Some of these gymnasiums, particularly those at
JDartmouth, Williams and Princeton, are large, imposing and
costly edifices. At all these colleges, with the exception of
Princeton, the experiment of physical culture has been tried
for a number of years. Ample time has elapsed for the results
of this experiment to appear. What these results are your
committee have sought to ascertain by corresponding with the
proper persons.
At four of the colleges just namned, the experiment seems
to have been made with peculiar thoroughness; and for the
sake of simplifying the present report, the results obtained at
these four colleges will be particularly referred to. These
colleges are Yale, Dartmouth, Williams and Amherst.
It appeared to your committee that the experience of these
colleges was to be sought as to the effects of a Department of
Physical Culture in three particulars:
1. Upon the physical condition of the students.
2. Upon the scholarship of the students.
3. Upon the morals and general behavior of the students.
Our informants are Mr. F. G. Welch, Instructor in Gymnastics at Yale, whom we have consulted chiefly as to methods
rather than results, Professor A. M. Wheeler of Yale, President Smith of Dartmouth, President Hopkins of Williams,
and Professor Edward Hitchcock of Amherst.     Professor
Hitchcock, also, very kindly sent to us a pamphlet entitled
"Physical Culture in Amherst College, by Nathan Allen,
M. D.,' one of the Trustees of the college. From this pamphlet
we have obtained most valuable information, a part of which
will be given in this report. Before proceeding to quote the
testimony which we have received fiom these gentlemen it
may be well to say that the Yale and Amherst gymnasiums
have been in use eight years, and those of Williams and Dartmouth about half that time; that at Williams and Yale the
attendance at the gymnasium has been voluntary, and consequently has been but partial; while at Dartmouth and Amherst, physical education has been recognized as of equal importance with intellectual education, and has been put upon
the same basis with it; and that, consequently, at these two
colleges the influence of the gymnastic department being felt
by all the students, has been more fruitful of results.
1. Effects of the Department of Physical Culture upon
the bodily condition of the students.
Under this head the committee made three inquiries; first
whether any serious accidents had occurred in the gymnasium;
second, whether there had been any cases of injury from over



practice; third, whether any improvement had taken place in
the physical development and in the general health of the
students.
To these inquiries we have received the following replies:
YALE. Mr Welch says: " No serious accidents have ever
happened here. In all my experience I have not known a
dozen falls that amounted to anything. Undoubtedly there
are some who are injured more or less permanently by overpractice. Sometimes the results are manifest during the time
of practice; at others later in life. In my experience I have
known of but two instances. One, a delicate young man,
who seldom frequented the gymnasium, came in one day and
attempted a most difficult feat, rupturing a blood-vessel. His
accident was not of a serious nature. The other was myself,
at a time when I taught and studied too much."
DARTMOUTH. President Smith says: " Very few serious
accidents and none fatal. Fewer, I think, than in many of
the out-door sports. But few cases of injury from over-practice. When classes enter they sometimes spend too much
time in the Gymnasium, particularly at the bowling alleys.
But the matter soon regulates itself. As to the effects of
gymnastic practice on the physical development and health of
the students, I give below the testimony of Prof. A. B.
Crosby, now lecturing at Ann Arbor, as published in our
Catalogues. 'Since the opening of the Gymnasium, I have
taken occasion to witness frequently the exercises, and the
results have more than equalled my expectations. There has
been no case of severe illness in the College during that time,
and there have been fewer instances of slight indisposition
than I have ever known in the same length of time before.
Dyspepsia, debility, and similar affections incident to a sedentary life, and which have hitherto been frequent in the change
of seasons from winter to spring, have, during the present
season, been unknown. There has been a manifest improvement in the general physical tone of the College, and the
increased muscular power and agility of the young men have
forced themselves on the attention even of unpracticed eyes.
I am fully satisfied, that these exercises have greatly subserved
the general health of the students.' "
WILLIAMS. Pres. Mark Hopkins says: " We have had
no serious accidents. I am aware of no serious injury from
over-exertion. I have no statistics, and can only say that I
think well of the department of physical training, if the right
man can be in charge of it."
AMHERST. The testimony fiom Amherst College, both
on this point and on every other connected with the practice
of physical culture, is very full. Prof. Hitchcock says: "We
have had but two serious accidents: one, that kept a student
from study three months, and one that compelled a young man
2




10


to drop behind one year. No cases of injury from over-practice. As to the effects of gymnastics on the physical development and health of the students, see Dr. Allen's pamphlet."
Accordingly we turn to the pamphlet alluded to, and we find
a careful and deeply interesting sketch by a physician of the
history of the department of physical culture in the College.
Upon the points now under consideration Dr. Allen, p. 18-19
says:
"When the subject was first agitated in respect to introducing into college gymnastic exercises, there were various
prejudices and objections to such a course. One of the original objections to the establishment of a gymnasium-and it
still exists to some extent-is the danger of some serious harm
or injury befalling those engaged in such exercises. But such
accidents very seldom occur in the regular practice of gymnastics. It should be remembered, that the more one exercises in this way the better command of his limbs and body
he obtains, and therefore is less likely to meet with injuries.
During the eight years since the establishment of this department there have been quite a number of bruises and sprains,
one broken limb and one dislocated joint, but no really serious
or permanent injury.  Considering the great number and
variety of exercises and the extraordinary exposures in the
performance of daring feats,-that over six hundred students
have taken a part in these exercises, and most of them, for a
time, entirely inexperienced, the accidents have certainly been
very few in number and slight in character. And those that
have taken place occurred generally out of the regular exercises, for the want of care, or on account of some physical
weakness of the individual injured. It is stated on good
authority, that the accidents arising in ball-playing,-practiced
only a few weeks each year, —are four times larger than those
from gymnastics."'
With regard to the effects of gymnastics upon the physical development and health of the students, Dr. Allen, pp. 22
-26, says:
" When the erection of a gymnasium was first agitated,
and even for some time after gymnastics were introduced, it
was said by some persons that the whole thing was an experiment; that after the novelty was over the interest would soon
subside, and the enterprise would prove a failure. It is now
eight years since this department was established,-eight different classes, numbering in all over six hundred students,
have taken part in its exercises, and four classes have enjoyed
its benefits throughout their whole collegiate course. What
then has been the effect of these upon the health of the
students, as well as upon the sanitary condition of the Institution? This may be exhibited in a variety of ways.
1st. There has been a decided improvement in the very




11


countenances and general physique of students. Instead of
the pale, sickly and sallow complexion once very commonly
seen, with an occasional lean, care-worn and haggard look,
we now witness very generally, fresh, ruddy and healthy
countenances, indicative of a higher degree of vitality, and
that the vital currents, enriched by nutrition and oxygen,
have a free and equal circulation throughout the whole
system. This change is so marked as to attract the attention
of the casual observer, and has been commented upon by
those formerly attending Commencements or other public
occasions here, as exhibiting a striking difference between the
personal appearance of students at those times, and, that at
the present day.
2d. In the use of the limbs and the body,-in the physical movements and conduct of students generally, there has
been, we think, decided improvement. Once the awkwardness of manner and the ungraceful bearing of scholars were
matters of common remark, and such characteristics not unfrequently followed them through life. This resulted not so
much from the want of early training and instruction on this
subject, as from the formation of bad habits in study, and the
long continued neglect of proper exercise. It was frequently
exhibited in stiffness of the joints, a clumsy use of the limbs,
in round shoulders and a stooping posture, and sometimes by
a countenance set, stern and almost devoid of expression.
Now gymnastics, when properly practiced, are calculated to
produce in this respect, a surprising effect upon the use of all
parts of the body, as well as upon its development. They
give not only agility and strength to all the muscles, but a
quick and ready control of them, thereby begetting an easy
and graceful carriage of the person.  *  *     *     *
4th. We come now to consider what has been the effect
more directly upon the health of the students, and the sanitary condition of the Institution. It is needless to state how
many students formerly impaired or broke down their constitutions for want of sufficient exercise, or from irregular or
excessive hours of study, or from some improper habits, or for
want of suitable attention to diet, sleep or some other physical law. Perhaps the effects of violated law were not always
visible at the time, and did not apparently impede the college
course, but the seeds were here sowne which afterwards brought
on disease and premature death, or crippled the energies and
limited the usefulness through after life. This may still happen: but with such exercise and instruction as can now be
obtained it is not near so likely to occur. Besides, where the
vitality of the system is kept up by regular muscular exercise,
to an even healthy state, it is one of the strongest safeguards
against disease; and then when any organ or portion of the
body is affected, nature is more powerful to throw off the




12


attack. In a community thus trained and instructed the more
common complaints, such as colds, headaches, sore throats,
feverish attacks, will seldom occur, and the diseases to which
scholars are peculiarly liable, such as dyspepsia, neuralgia and
consumption stands a far less chance of finding victims. Any
skillful and experienced physician will testify at once, that
such a community is possessed of a wonderful power to prevent as well as throw off disease. The common proverbs,
' a stitch in time saves nine,' and ' an ounce of prevention
is worth a pound of cure,' are not more truthful than the
statement here made of the remarkable exemption from disease of a community trained and educated as above described.
5th. A comparison of the present health of students
with what it was ten or fifteen years ago, shows a surprising
improvement. It is rare now for any student to break down
suddenly in his health, or to be compelled to leave college on
this account. In 1855-6-7 and 8 such cases were common,
as may be seen by referring to the statements of President
Stearns; and the truth of the statements is moreover confirmed by others personally conversant here for twenty or
thirty years. As no record was formerly kept of the amount
of sickness from year to year, or of the number of students
leaving college on account of illness, no exact comparison on
these points in figures can be instituted. But the experience
and observation of those who have been on the ground a long
time must bear decided testimony to a greatly improved state
of health among the students over that of former times; and
as for those who once were members of the Institution, and
return here on public occasions, they cannot fail to see a
great improvement in this respect.
6th. But the evidence of improved health does not rest
wholly upon individual opinions or upon loose comparisons.
Since 1861, a register has been carefully kept of the kind and
amount of sickness in college, an analysis of which presents
some striking facts. No student is placed upon the sick list,
unless he is detained two consecutive days from the usual
exercises of the Institution. The number of students reported sick ranges in the course of the year from twenty-five
to sixty, showing a far greater amount of sickness in some
years than others, which depends very much on the fact,
whether some epidemic prevailed, or whether the year as a
whole, either on account of the weather or from some other
cause, was not generally unhealthy. If allowance is made for
this extra sickness in two of the years out of the eight, the
register shows that the actual amount of sickness in college
has diminished in these eight years more than one-third.
That is, in the year just closed, there were only two-thirds as
much sickness as in 1861, the year when gymnastics were
introduced.




13


Again, the average number of students sick each year of
these eight was thirty-eight, and the average number present
in college was two hundred and twenty-four, showing that
there were one hundred and eighty-six students on an average
each year who did not experience two days' sickness at any
one time. The register reports forty-one different diseases or
complaints to account for this sickness, and a careful inspection of the list shows a remarkable exemption from what
are considered generally the more violent and dangerous diseases."
2. After seeking information as to the effects of gymnastics upon the physical condition of the students, your committee enquired concerning the effects of gymnastics upon
scholarship. The question had been raised among ourselves
whether the gymnasium might not prove a distraction from
study, and especially whether some young men might not
become so proud of their success as athletes as to disregard
the pursuits of the mind. Accordingly into the list of questions sent to the different colleges, your committee introduced this: "Are the great gymnasts apt to be satisfied
with that eminence, to the neglect of study?" The follow.
ing replies have been received:
YALE. Professor Arthur M. Wheeler, of the chair of
History, in a letter dated Dec. 20, 1869, says: "Our gymnasium is muchfrequented by the students; and the general
opinion here is-shared alike by the older and younger officers
-that the students are more vigorous and healthy in consequence of it, and that in this way it contributes toward higher
scholarship. Of course it would be difficult to say to what
extent it does this; but we all feel sure that we are much
better off for it, physically, mentally and morally.
There is no tendency among us to cultivate muscle at
the expense of brains, yet now and then a case of that kind
occurs. Nearly all the men who do this, however, are boating men; and the evil, so far as it exists, is to be attributed
to the boating fever; and boating, as you know, is not an
outgrowth of the gymnasium; for it existed before we had a
gymnasium."
DARTMOUTH. Pres. Smith says: " The effect on scholarship has been good, in that health and physical vigor have
been promoted. We have had no trouble of the kind you
speak of to any extent worth mentioning."
WILLIAMS. President Hopkins includes his answer to
this question in the general answer given to the preceding
one; which answer is favorable.
AMHERST.   Professor Hitchcock says:   "E Effects on
scholarship, good generally. Since the first two years, have
known of no neglect to study by any student or set of students."  Upon the same subject Dr. Allen [p. 29,] says:




14


"There is still another very important consideration, viz: has
the standa.rd of scholarship in college been raised by means
of gymnastics?  As the system  of marking or mode of
exhibiting this standard was changed a few years since, an
exact comparison in figures cannot here be instituted; but it
is the decided opinion of the Registrar, (the College Officer
who has charge of these statistics,) that there 'has been an
elevation of rank within the past few years.' It may be that
some individuals in a class formerly reached as high scholarship as any now do; but the aggregate scholarship of a whole
class, we are confident, is higher now than it once was, and,
to say the least, is much easier obtained, with fewer hours of
study, and less loss of health and life."
3. The third general question proposed by your committee had reference to the effects of gymnastic training upon
the morals and manners of the students. To this question the
replies from Yale and Williams are in general terms that the
effects are good.
DARTMOUTH. Pres. Smith says: " The effects on morals
are good, in that the sane body is conducive to entire sanity
of soul. A vent is opened also, for superfluous animal spirits,
which sometimes pass with young men into a 'superfluity of
naughtiness."'
AMHERST. Prof. Hitchcock says: "Less rough and
rowdy students. Do not make so much noise on the street or
by night; as I encourage noise and considerable rough play
during the regular exercises.''
In 1862, Professor Hitchcock, in his first report to the
trustees, made this remark; " During a portion of the exercises, I urge upon the captains the necessity of introducing
playful exercises, such as running in grotesque attitudes,
singing college songs, &c. Sometimes this may seem boisterous and undignified, but it seems desirable to me that a portion of the animal spirits should be worked off inside the stone
walls of the gymnasium, under the eye of a college officer,
rather than out of doors, rendering night hideous; and in no
instance has the captain found the slightest difficulty in bringing his men into'line at the word of command."
Dr. Allen [pp. 17-18] quotes upon this subject the testimony of the "Congregational Journal," of Concord, N. H.,
for Oct. 23, 1862, a correspondent of which paper writes from
Amherst College as follows:
"The gymnastic exercises greatly promote the good
order and morals of the students. Their animal spirits work
off by the correct movements of the gymnasium. They are
indisposed to the unmauly and often mischievous doings of
students too frequent in our colleges. A citizen of the town
assures me, that the amount of injury done to the college and
other buildings in the village is almost nothing since the open



15


ing of the gymnasium, compared with what it was before.
No less advantageous, probably, is the gymnasium to the
mental progress of the students. They come from the gymnastic exercises to their studies with healthful bodies, clear
minds and cheerful spirits. The 'blues,' those most formidable enemies of successful study, assail them not.  All is
bright and promising, all hopeful. Time will undoubtedly
show that no one adjunct, no one department of college, will
conduce more to the noble object for which the Institution
was founded, than the Gymnasium."
Later in his pamphlet [pp. 31-33] Dr. Allen, refers again
to this subject as follows:
" There is another advantage from these exercises worthy
of notice, that is in preventing vicious and irregular habits.
While no system   of gymnastics alone can be expected to
break up settled habits of dissipation, such as intemperance,
licentiousness, and the excessive use of tobacco or any other
stimulant, still, combined with other good influences, they
have a direct tendency to forestall or arrest such practices by
giving a safe vent to the animal spirits, by regularity of physical exercise, by improving the general health, and producing
a more normal condition of the brain. But there is a vice,
(nameless here,) more terrible in its effects, both physical and
mental, upon the student, than either of the above, and over
which gymnastic exercises have great influence. In fact, it is
the testimony of the highest medical authorities, that regular
and tolerably severe gymnastic exercise is not only the most
effective means of preventing or checking this vice, but is
really the best curative agent. And it is a gratifying fact that
we can add the testimony of the Professor of this department,
that gymnastics have been working to a like result in this institution.
" It is found that a regular system of gymnastics operates
in a variety of ways as a powerful auxiliary of discipline;
that it answers as a kind of safety-valve to let off in an indirect
way that excess of animal spirits which is characteristic of
some young men, and which not unfrequently leads them into
trouble or conflict with authority. Again it serves with others
as a kind of regulator to the system, exercising certain parts
of it to such an extent as to produce weariness and fatinue, so
that the individual seeks repose; and with another class it
tends to remove any unnatural or innate weakness of the
frame, and by such improvements serves to equalize and regulate all the forces of nature. Thus such a system of gymnastics sets up a stagndard of law for self-government; tor it is
based upon those great laws of life and health which are a
part of the will and government of God in this world, as much
as the ten commandments. No by-laws or code of ethics
established by any humen teacher or institution can compare




16
in authority or final appeal to those great natural, primeval
laws engraved upon our constitntions by the Creator. It will
be seen at once what apower the instructor has over the conscience and reason of a student thus trained. Said President
Felton to the writer, shortly before his decease, referring to
the gymnastics at Amherst which he had just witnessed:
'Such a system of physical exercises thoroughly understood
and applied by the members of Harvard University, would aid
me in the matter of discipline in the Institution more than
anything else.' We are here authorized to state, that the
Faculty of Amherst College have found great assistance in
government from this source;-that since the introduction of
this department, the cases requiring discipline have been far
less numerous, and more easily managed, than formerly."
Thus upon the three great questions which can be raised
respecting a department of Physical Culture in the University,
namely, as to the effects of such a department upon the bodily
condition, upon the scholarship, and upon the manners and
morals of the students, your committee have submitted-not
abstract theories of their own, but the authentic results of
actual experience, obtained in the four celebrated American
colleges which have tried the experiment of physical culture
the longest and most thoroughly. These results are communicated to us in the form of testimony from two college Presidents, from two college Professors, from one college Trustee
who is also a physician, and from one practical instructor in
gymnastics, who is very noted in his calling and of whom
President Smith has written to us in the highest praise.
This testimony can not fail to be regarded as decisive.
Your Committee are of the opinion that in the light of
such testimony, this University may proceed to the establishment of a department of Physical Culture, not as if it were
venturing upon an untried and a dubious experiment, but unhesitatingly, boldly, with entire confidence in the complete
success of the measure, if it be but carried out with reasonable
care in its details. Moreover your Committee are of opinion
that in view of the great benefits which other colleges have
actually found to proceed from such a department, and in view
of the great needs of our own students with respect to physical culture and healthful regulated exercise, when the
funds of the University shall permit, vigorous action should
be taken upon this subject-providing for the students a department of Physical Culture with a building, with an instructor, and with all the necessary appliances, commensurate with
the greatness of the institution, with the wants of the students,
and with the demands of enlightened public opinion. It has
not been usual for the University of Michigan to be either
timid or laggard in moving towards improved and generous
educational methods. Its true place is in the van of- the great




17


army of educators. At last, however, there is great danger of
its violating its own instincts and traditions. On this immense anxious and most urgent business of providing, in a
scientific and efficient manner, for the physical education of
its students, and through that for their highest intellectual and
moral development, the University has dropped from its honored place in the front; unless speedy action be taken, it will
lose even a middle position; it will drag hopelessly and unworthily in the rear.
Should it be decided, then, to establish a department of
Physical Culture in the University, a number of very important questions at once arise for determination, with reference1. To a Gymnastic Building;
2. To the qualifications and duties of the Professor at the
head of the new department;
3. To the relation which the department shall hold to the
various University courses already established, both professional and collegiate.
Your committee are very clearly of opinion that with reference to each of these questions mistakes are not only possible, but are extremely liable to be made —mistakes, too, which
would be absolutely fatal to the utility and success of the
department.
Some of the colleges which have established gymnasiums
have made such mistakes upon these points as have rendered
their gymnasiums nearly useless, thus bringing distrust and
reproach upon the whole cause.   These mistakes can be
avoided by us-by our being on our guard against them, by
our remembering that the opinions of experts alone are of
much worth upon this subject in matters of detail, and by
studying still more minutely the methods pursued in the colleges which have made this department a success.
We would particularly recommend further study of this
department in Amherst College. That noble institution undoubtedly leads not only America, but the world, in the successful solution of the problem of uniting physical and mental
culture. We may safely take it as almost a perfect model in
the arrangement of a department of physical culture. Should
the Regents find themselves enabled to establish such a department here, we would suggest to them, that before finally
deciding as to the dimensions and the interior arrangements
of the gymnasium, upon the choice of an instructor, and upon
the relations of gymnastic instruction to the other courses, it
would be prudent to send a suitable person to at least six of
the colleges which have been named-Princeton, Williams,
Yale, Amherst, Harvard and Dartmouth ---authorized to find
out upon the spot, by actual observation, and by conversation
with officials of experience there, all that can be ascertained
3




18
with reference to the mistakes to be avoided, and the right
conclusions to be reached.
Your committee have already obtained nearly all the information that could be got by correspondence, and they are
able to submit, if it were desirable, a great many facts and
opinions upon the several particulars now referred to. As to
some of these particulars, however, they feel the need of
more information than they have been able to obtain by letters, before coming to an absolute conclusion.
For example, if it be decided to have a gymnasium, the
very first question which arises is as to its dimensions. Here,
at the outset is a serious danger. At some of the colleges it
is found that the gymnasiums are too small, or that they are
unfortunately proportioned.  One great practical authority
says that whatever may be the length of the building, it must
by all means be as broad as it is long. Yet at Yale the gymnasium is 120 x 50; at Amherst 70 x 40; at Dartmouth
90 x 45; at Princeton 81 x 55; at Bowdoin 75 x 30. Now,
we need upon this single point alone, to have some one
enquire upon the spot the results of experience as to there
dimensions. None of these buildings are square. Is this
fact found to be an inconvenience? It would be a pity to
ascertain, after our building was up, that its utility to us
would be impaired by a mistake that might have been so
easily avoided, as to its size and proportions. Professor
Hitchcock writes to us that he cannot introduce a very important and attractive method of exercise, for want of room.
How unfortunate that that want was not foreseen. Dr. Peabody of Harvard writes to us: " If we were to build anew we
should make the gymnasium at least 25 per cent larger, and of
two stories," instead of one. When we build, we want to
build it as it should be the first time, without having to tear
down and build anew. Too often gymnasiums are built without consulting gymnasts; they are built apparently on a
priori principles. Such a course is as foolish as it would be
to build a chemical laboratory without consulting a chemist,
or an astronomical observatory without getting any advice
from an astronomer. This, then, is but a specimen of the
practical questions which present themselves the moment we
set about carrying into effect the resolution to establish a
Department of Physical Culture; and your committee would
repeat their statement that in order to settle these questious
wisely more information must be obtained than can be procured through the channel of letters. Yet as the Regents have
expressed a wish for such recommendations as we could make
upon these questions we will give concisely the conclusions
which we have drawn from our present knowledge upon the
whole subject, conscious that these conclusions may require
some modification under the pressure of further knowledge
that may yet be obtained.




19


1. We recommed the establishment in this University
at such time as circumstances may permit, a Department of
Hygiene and Physical Culture, believing, as we do upon ample
evidence, that the establishment of such a department would
be attended with no such difficulties, or risks as may not be
overcome by cautious and intelligent foresight, and that if
successful it would result in incalculable good to all our students, and to an increase of the good reputation of the University.
2. In dealing with the next topic, that of the gymnasium
building, the committee have had peculiar difficulty. The
discrepancy between the sort of building we ought to have,
and the sort of building we may be able to have, is so wide
as to make it nearly impossible to determine what to recommend. Formerly it was thought that any room, however
cheap, dark, cheerless, and inconvenient, if only large enough
to admit a few ropes and pulleys and bits of timber, was suitable for a gymnasium. But the opinions of enlightened educators upon this subject are now changed. At the principal
colleges the gymnasiums are made as spacious, attractive and
convenient as possible.
The following description of the new gymnasium at
Princeton, written by Professor Schank, and politely communicated to us by President McCosh, may give some idea of
the sort of building which liberal men have provided at that
ancient seat of learning: "'It is a two story stone building, the main body of which is 81 x 55 feet, flanked by two
octagonal towers, each about twenty feet in diameter, the entire measure, including these, being 92 x 60 feet. On the first
floor, besides both rooms, &c., there are bowling alleys. The
second story, which is open to the roof and high, accommodates the ordinary gymnastic fixtures, with a gallery for spectators over the ball rooms. The towers are pointed spires
above the roof and terminate on rods with balls and vanes.
The cost when completed and equipped will be about $35,000."
The gymnasium at Yale cost $14,000 before the war, exclusive of the apparatus; and at present prices Mr. Welch
thinks it would cost $30,000.
President Smith informs us that the Dartmouth gymnasium cost $22,800, with about $1,500 for apparatus-total
cost $24,300.
We did not learn the cost of the Wllliams gymnasium,
but it could not have been less than $30,000. It is the most
beautiful building in Williamstown.
The gymnasium at Amherst cost $8,000 in 1859, with an
an additional cost of $2,000 for apparatus.
The committee began with the attempt to ascertain what
could be done for $5,000, the sum named in the resolution of the Regents in March 1869; but we soon found that




20
no building of the size required could be put up for any such
amount, unless it should be one that would be an eye-sore and
an offense to all beholders. A great ungainly shed would not
answer the purposes of the Department of Physical Culture;
and even if it would, the committee would hesitate long before
taking the responsibility of recommending any further desecration of our noble University grounds by architectural monstrosities.
What is really needed by the University to meet the present demands of scientific physical culture is a building either
of brick or of stone (the latter being preferable) of dimensions
hereafter to be determined, to consist of two stories and a
large well lighted cellar; the cellar serving as a store room,
as a place for heating apparatus, and ultimately, when means
should permit, for ample bath rooms; the first story to be used
for bowling alleys, superintendent's and janitor's rooms, dressing rooms and offices; while the second story would contain a
large hall of exercise in both heavy and liglht gymnastics, as
well as smaller rooms for sparring, fencing, etc., a room for
simple refieshments, like tea and coffee, and a suite of rooms
supplied with a piano, and with newspapers, to be used by all
the students as the University parlors and reading-rooms. and
to be kept open every day in the year, from sunrise until ten
o'clock at night. Such an edifice, especially in the absence
of the dormitory system, would be a most beneficent one to
all our students. It would be the University home. Besides
furnishing the students with a means of bodily health and
development, it would be a boon to them socially; and by its
joyous and hospitable privileges open to them, even when all
the other University buildings are closed, it would both afford
an unspeakable enjoyment to hundreds of young men, and
would save many from temptations now fatal both to health
and character. Such a building, properly furnished, at the
present rate of materials would require not less than $25,000.
3. WVe recommend the appointment of a Professor of
Hygiene and Physical Culture, to have the full salary of a
Professor in the collegiate department; and as to his qualifications and duties we would adopt the admirable description
given by President Stearns in his Annual Report to the Trustees of Amherst College for the year 1860:
' What we need is a professorship extending over the
entire department of physical education.  1st-The officer
should be a skillful gymnast, capable of conducting his classes,
by example as well as precept, through all the exercises which
the best training would require them to perform. 2d-He
should have a good medical education, with sufficient knowledge of disease, if not to manage severe cases, yet to know
whether a student is sick or well, obeying the laws of health
or breaking them, and, as a wise friend, to caution him, ad



21


vise him and put him on the track towards physical vigor.
3d-That he should have such knowledge of elocution as
would enable him to teach those movements of the body,
lungs and vocal organs which are essential to graceful and
effective oratory. Elocution is properly a branch of gymnastics, and the highest degree of health, to say nothing of good
manners and good speaking, can hardly be secured without it
or a substitute for it. This officer, while having charge of
gymnastics, would naturally teach the laws of health and the
physical part of oratory; and as he would be much with the
students, and would be likely to have great influence over
them, he ought to be a man of cultivated tastes and manners-a man of honorable sentiments and correct principles,
having high aims and a Christian spirit. Such a man, with
such a work as I have now marked out successfully pursued,
would be an incalculable advantage to the college and to
mankind."
4. In order to avoid over-crowding of the building, and
inconvenience to the students, we recommend that during the
Law and Medical terms, the several parts of the day and
evening, to be hereafter determined, be divided among the
students of the three departments, and that for at least one
hour each day the building be also appropriated to the use of
the University Faculties; that attendance at the gymnasium
be entirely optional with all the students; only that the students in the collegiate department be called upon, at the beginning of each year, to determine whether they will attend
the gymnasium, and that those who decide to ldo so shall
be required to exercise in light gymnastics with their respective classes for at least one-half hour each (day, for four
days in the week; all work in heavy gymnastics and in the
bowling alleys to be taken by them according to regulations
hereafter to be determined.
5. We recommend that in order to meet the current expenses of the Department of Physical Culture, a small fee,
(say $2 per semester, and $3 per professional term) be charged
to each student who avails himself of the privileges of the
department; it being understood that so soon as, either by
private munificence or by State endowment, the expenses of
the department shall be otherwise provided for, its privileges
shall be extended to all without any charge whatever.
In conclusion, the Committee would remark that the
foregoing plan for a Department of Physical Culture involves
an expenditure which is probably quite beyond the present
resources of the University; and that without some special
gift of money for the purpose, either by the legislature or by
private individuals, the University will be unable to confer
upon its students certain very important advantages in the
process of a complete education. We would call particular




22
attention to the fact that the beautiful and spacious gymnasiums at Princeton, Williams and Dartmouth were built by
private generosity. Is there no rich man in Michigan, or
even in the United States, (for our students represent all the
States) who would be willing, by a timely benefaction, to
connect his name forever with the destinies of this great
University, and to bestow an incalculable boon upon all the
multitudes of students who are to resort here for the pursuit
of knowledge?
MOSES COIT TYLER,
Chairman.
EDWARD OLNEY,
C. L. FORD, M. D.
THOMAS M. COOLEY.




MARCH MEETING, 1870.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
March 28, 1870.
The Board of Regents met pursuant to adjournment of
January 6th.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey,
Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert and McGowan.
The meeting was opened by the reading of the Scriptures
and prayer.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved.
The Acting President presented the following Report,
containing suggestions and recommendations on the affairs of
the University.
ACTING     PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
ANN ARBOR, March 29, 1870.
GENTLEMEN-I feel it my duty to point out to you some wants of
the University, developed by the experience of the present academic
year, and also to suggest the ordinary recurring wants of different Departments at this period of the year, a part of which, I trust, you
may find it expedient to act upon at the present session of the Board.
It has long been the aim of the several Faculties to bring about a
more perfect union of the three grand departments of the institution,
not only in sentiment, but as far as possible in action. A very important step was taken in this direction several years ago in the organization of the Faculties as a University Senate, a measure which has had
the effect to bring the Faculties into more intimate relations with each
other, to create a more perfect sympathy and esprit de corps, and to




24
elevate the literary and scientific character of the University, resulting also in more earnest co-operation among all the Professors for the
general interests of the institution. As a counterpart of this union of
the Faculties, it also seemed proper that there should be a union, so
far as possible, of the students of the several Departments. It was,
of course, impossible that this could be so intimate or of the same nature as that of the Faculties. But to a certain extent it seemed possible, and most desirable; and to promote such a union was one of the
first efforts of the University Senate immediately upon commencing
the labors of the present year. The first result of this effort was the
inauguration of the new anniversary now placed on our calendar as
University Day. Even as early as the beginning of the first term of
1867 there was some conversation in the Senate about the expediency
of calling the students of all departments together, and inviting the
President to address them, some evening early in the term, on practical
questions relating to their habits of study, habits of life, employment
of time, reading, and whatever might tend to promote their welfare
and success. The next year this idea was embodied in a resolution of
the Senate requesting the President for this purpose, and also as a
means of promoting unity of feeling among the students, to set
apart some evening for such an address. Unavoidable difficulties, however, led to the postponement of the address until the term was too
far advanced to make it appropriate. This action, however, did not
contemplate any suspension of college exercises. At the opening of
the present year another plan was substituted for the former one, and
I am most happy to say that its success in awakening enthusiasm, and
making the Faculties and students realize the oneness as well as the
numerical strength of the University, has far exceeded our most sanguine expectations.
This plan consisted in suspending all the regular exercises for an
entire day, forming a procession of the Faculties and students in all
Departments, and after moving through the principal streets with appropriate class and department banners, assembling in one of the churches
of the city, and listening to brief addresses from Professors selected
from the three Departments. It is the unanimous opinion, I think, of
all members of the Uuiversity, that this day is a real gain to the institution, not only by presenting its entire personnel in its most imposing
aspect, but in creating a genial sentiment of brotherly feeling and good
will. I think it but just as the inauguration of this anniversary, a rival,
as it is destined to be, of the annual commencements, is a matter of
history, to say that we are indebted to Regent Walker, the chairman




25


of your Executive Committee, for suggesting the name of "University
Day' for this occasion.
Encouraged by the success of this first effort, the Senate has also
introduced a second custom, which, we hope, will also be fruitful in
good results. This is a series of lectures delivered to the students of
all Departments during that part of the year when the professional
schools are in session. The lecturers are Professors of the several
Faculties, and the subjects more or less connected with their several
chairs. This course has been commenced within a few weeks, and will
be continued at the opening of the next academic year. I need not
dwell upon the advantages to be expected from its institution.
But in these efforts to bring our multitude of young men together,
and to make them better acquainted with one another, and with the
members of the several Faculties, we have come into painful contact
with the grand want of this University. The University has no roof
under which to assemble her various Departments. She has a family
of a thousand children without a shelter. We have no other resource
than to occupy on sufferance one or other of the churches in the city,
quite unfit for college lectures, and also quite inadequate to the audience.
The first and most urgent want of the University is an audience
room of its own, suitable for all the occasions of which I have spoken,
as well as for its exhibitions and annual commencements.
But if it should be thought impossible to take any immediate steps
to meet this necessity, however pressing, the next want that I shall
bring to your attention, I trust, will be found within range of your present means. We have a much larger number of students in the academic department than in any previous year, and our courses of study
have been lately increased in number and variety to meet the demands
of the times. On both accounts we find ourselves greatly embarrassed
for the want of a number of recitation and lecture rooms sufficient to
accommodate the numerous classes and sections of classes, going
through with their exercises simultaneously at nearly all hours of the
day. With such limited accommodations it is with the utmost difficulty that we can arrange our programme of daily exercises so as to enable all instructors and classes to do their work without clashing one
with another.
It is indispensable to the easy working of our complicated machinery, that nearly every officer of instruction should have the exclusive
occupancy of one room.
As a means of securing the additional accommodation needed, it




has been proposed to adapt one of the University dwelling houses to
the wants of the engineering department. It is a question, however,
whether this expedient will in the end prove a success; and it may be
well to consider whether it will not be better to erect a new building
exactly fitted for the purpose. A new wing attached to the Chemical
Laboratory, of about the same dimensions as the present north front of
that building, would furnish ample accommodations not only for the engineering classes but also for those in Physics, and all at an expense
which financially would probably be more advantageous than the proposed alteration of the dwelling house. $2,500 is Prof. Wood's lowest
estimate. The engineering department would, by this arrangement,
have access to the steam power of the Laboratory for its mechanical
branch, and the Professor of Physics would have access to the chemical apparatus; while the heating apparatus of the Laboratory would
be fully adequate to warm the additional rooms. The loss of the rent
of the university house, the running expense of heating it when
altered, and the interest of the cost of alteration, would more than
equal the interest on the amount expended for the proposed new building. Whichever plan, however, may be adopted, our pressing need of
more lecture rooms will be fully relieved by throwing open the apartments now used by the Professors of Physics and Engineering, to the
officers in the Literary Department not yet supplied with rooms.
I would next suggest the importance of making some small annual
appropriation for the Art Museum. There has been no systematic outlay for this collection, and but little has been added to it for several
years, while similar collections in other institutions, commenced much
later than this, have now excelled it. An inconsiderable amount expended annually would enable us to purchase chromo-lithographic copies of great paintings, and casts of important statues, and thus to make
this attractive branch of the Museum keep pace with the others.
In connection with this suggestion, I would state that we have an
opportunity of adding to our collection in natural history a considerable
number of South American birds, now in the possession of Prof. Orton of Vassar College. They represent a region from which we have
as yet no specimens, and are offered at the very low price of $200.
I desire to say here, too, that Mr. Joseph B. Steere, a member of
the present graduating Law Class, who has previously taken his degree
in the Classical course, and also made natural science a specialty, is
about to commence a tour over the world by the way of Central America, the islands of the Pacific, and eastern Asia, with the intention of
spending a large part of his time in making scientific collections. It is




2t7


his purpose to deposit in our Museum whatever he may find of value
in those countries which he may visit, none of which are represented
as yet in our collections.
The Professor of Mathematics is in need of some illustrative apparatus, involving an expense of not more than $60.
The Professor of English Language and Literature needs in his
recitation room nine charts illustrating the History of English Literature, and one copy of Webster's and Worcester's Dictionary,-at the
estimated expense of $52.
The apparatus in the Chemical Department has fallen somewhat
behind the present state of the science. Especially something more is
now needed for the examination and study of the spectrum. Nothing,
I believe, has been appropriated from the University funds for chemical apparatus during the last ten years.
In the Medical Departnent some additional means of illustration
are needed, the nature of which will be stated by the Dean of the Medical Faculty. The estimated expense will be $400.
Dr. Crosby will make some suggestions in regard to the Hospital,
and also in regard to the arrangements necessary to be made for the
Medical education of females in the University.
Both in the Medical and Law Departments an appropriation is
needed for the purpose of advertising in the Law and Medical Reviews,
and other leading periodicals. I understand that other professional
schools find it profitable to advertise extensively, and I have no doubt
that whatever may be expended by us in this direction will be more
than repaid to the treasury of the University.
The Law Library needs some kind of protection for the book
shelves, such as doors or wire netting. It would be well to have such
doors made at once.
It is unnecessary to remind the Board of the need of a new fence
for the university grounds, and of the usual appropriation for their improvement.
The Latin Scientific Course, introduced within two years, and now
pursued by a considerable number of students, seems to demand a degree at the close of the course, different from both that of B. S. and
B. A. I would respectfully recommend that the degree of B. P. be
given to that class of graduates.
Prof. D'Ooge desires to perfect himself in his department of studies
by attending lectures for two years at German Universities. I need not
say that our first class institutions are now encouraging their younger instructors to improve their scholarship in this way, and that by giving




28


Prof. D'Ooge this leave of absence the University will secure an advantage in the improved character of his department.
Finally, I beg leave to call your attention to a subject which has always seemed to me of much more importance than at first glance, perhaps, it may appear to others. I mean the taking of proper measures
to attract more of our alumni and of the friends of liberal education to
our commencement anniversary. It has been an occasion of pain and
mortification to many of us, that while hosts of the graduates of our
older colleges flock together to their great yearly festival, we seldom see
assembled here on such occasions more than some fifty or a hundred.
Now it is a mistake to suppose that this is wholly due to the infancy of
our University. The great majority of the alumni assembled at other
colleges consists of graduates of less than twenty-five years standing,
probably even less than twenty years; and, therefore, we ought to have
here an attendance as large, in proportion to the whole number of our
graduates, as is theirs; for our graduating classes in the literary department extend back just twenty five years, embracing in all seven hundred
and thirty members. The real cause of this small attendance, I must
think, is the absence of that pleasant and attractive feature of commencements elsewhere; the generous banquet provided by the hospitality of alma mater, and thrown open cordially to all graduates of every college who choose to attend, and also to many strangers and professional men. The contrast between our commencements and theirs in
this important feature of the anniversary is greatly to our disadvantage.
Our own men feel it, and strangers, knowing our position, so prominent
in other respects among American colleges, note this weak point with
surprise and disappointment. They see the University of Michigan,
on this grand occasion, instead of greeting her children and guests with
open countenance and bountiful hospitality, actually sitting down, herself an invited guest, at the board of a little band of her own alumni,
assembled in small numbers, and paying for a commencement dinner
provided by themselves. The honor and dignity of the University demand that our commencement anniversary should no longer be suffered
to taper off in this ignoble way.
But the question has a much deeper significance than this of pride,
dignity, and reputation. For my part, I think even those are weighty
considerations. But it involves much more than this. It involves the
continued and active interest of the alumni in our welfare, it involves
largely the probability of future donations and bequests to the institution; such as are now flowing so rapidly into the treasuries of the older
colleges. With this tie of alma mater, as with other kindred bonds,




29
"out of sight" is apt to be " out of mind."  But unless the graduate
is drawn to his old academic home by the attractions of commencement
day, he seldom or never returns to it at all. He becomes alienated and
indifferent, and often transfers his affections and even his contributions
to those institutions which are more active and wise in seeking the good
will of the community.
I have little doubt that the interest in Yale, Harvard, Brown, and
other universities, which has called forth such munificent gifts even from
those who were not graduates, is largely due to the influence of their
numerous alumni, scattered here and there throughout the country, and
insensibly affecting the society around them with their own enthusiasm.
But this is not all. The alumni themselves in the course of time acquire
wealth, or attain to commanding positions, and either directly from
their own means, or by soliciting those who have means, secure large
donations to these institutions. I have myself seen ahundred thousand
dollars raised for an eastern college in a very few days, in a small community, almost entirely by the active exertions of one single graduate.
Now, though we may hope much from the State, it is evident that
our growing wants can never be fully responded to by the State alone.
We must, like other colleges, and none the less because we are a State
University, look in good time to our alumni. And we ought, therefore,
even from this selfish motive, immediately to correct the fault hitherto
justly chargeable upon us, of neglecting the reasonable and proper methods of keeping up and increasing their good will.
We have been striving to bring about in the University a more perfect internal union of the Faculties and undergraduates. The counterpart of this, and equally indispensable, is the union of the graduates
around their alma mater. Indeed, you are aware, no doubt, that in the
English universities it is not the undergraduates, but the alumni alone
who are legally members of the university. The student becomes an
actual member of those universities, not by virtue of entering, but by
virtue of taking his master's degree. Now while, unlike them, we regard our body of undergraduates as an actual and living part of the university, we ought so to treat the alumni, that they may feel themselves
also to be a vital part of the institution. It would be obviously impossible for the body of graduates of a state or national university to have a
political and governmental power in its affairs. But morally the alumni
can and do exert a mighty influence for the welfare of our older colleges;
and this is what, I trust, we may see realized also in the University of
Michigan. Now as our " University Day " is designed to create a deeper interest and stronger union among our undergraduate students, even




30


so the Commencement Day should be made to stir up a kindred enthusias;m and oneness of sentiment among our graduates, binding them in
like manner, in pride and affection, to the home of their education. To
accomplish this we must make the Commencement Day a bright day.
We must draw them here both by our literary exercises and our hospitable entertainment. They must go away looking up to us, and not looking down upon us. We cannot effect this change in a day, but we can
make a beginning, and the salutary results will show themselves in due
time. If life be spared, I hope to see our literary exercises at the Commencement made more impressive by the presence of a larger body of
intellectual and cultivated men, and an enthusiasm aroused at the annual festival which shall make the University an object of pleasing and
fond recollection in every graduate.
Let us have the means and we may hope to bring this thing to pass.
On motion of Regent Walker, so much of the Report as
pertained to appropriations was referred to the Finance Committee.
On motion of Regent Willard, it was
Resolved, That the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy be
conferred on those members of the University entitled to graduation in the Latin and Scientific Course.
Regent Willard introduced the following resolution, which
was agreed to:
Resolved, that leave of absence for the two ensuing
academic years, be granted to Professor Martin L. D'Ooge, to
enable him to visit Europe, and that the Executive Committee
be authorized to provide the needed instruction in his department for the period of his absence.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Dean of the Medical
Faculty was invited to present the annual report of the Medical Department. The report was as follows:
To the Hon. Board of Regents of the University of Michigan 
GENTLEMEN-The Faculty of the Medical Departmeut beg leave
to submit in brief their Annual Report.
The progress of the term has been marked by the usual harmony
and cordial co-operation on the part of the Faculty, and the earnest
attention and general good deportment on the part of the Class. The
catalogue still exhibits a large attendance of students, numbering




31


338; of this number 72 have complied with all the conditions required
for graduation, and their names will be submitted with the recommendation of the Faculty.
The success of the Hospital has been quite equal to our anticipations for the first year of its history; many changes and improvements
in the internal arrangements, not at first anticipated, were found to be
necessary, a detailed statement of which, with the incidental expenditures,and suggestions for the future, will be submitted in a separate report by the Prof. of Surgery.
The present Steward of the Hospital, Mr. Carrington, in consequence of the ill-health of his family, will tender his resignation to take
effect on the 1st of April.   To fill the vacancy caused by this
resignation, the Faculty, after examination of claims of numerous candidates, have selected and agreed to recommend for appointment Albert
Read of Ann Arbor, on conditions specified in the memoranda of an
agreement with the Faculty.
The Faculty beg leave to renew their recommendation of the appointment of Dr. Cheever to the Professorship of Materia Medica and
Therapeutics. The duties of the office, it is believed, were never fulfilled with greater fidelity and success than during the term now just
completed.
It is also with much pleasure that they recommend the appointment of Dr. A. B. Crosby to the chair of Surgery, the duties of which
he has so ably filled during the past term.
In view of the wide range of topics pertaining to the department of
surgery, recognized and indicated in nearly all of our first colleges by
the appointment of a separate Professor of Opthalmology, the Faculty
beg leave to recommend the appointment of Dr. Geo. C. Frothingham,
Lecturer on Opthalmology for the next year, but without any increase
of his salary as the Demonstrator of Anatomy.
During the past history of the Medical Department the duties pertaining to the department of Practical Anatomy have never, it is believed, been performed with greater fidelity and satisfaction than during
the last term. The financial condition of this department will be exhibited in the accompanying Report of the Demonstrator herewith
submitted. From this it will be seen that as many as 80 classes have
been supplied; and it will be readily understood, that a great amount
of time, labor and attention must be bestowed to do justioe to so many
classes at work simultaneously, or in close succession. The Faculty
would therefore unite with the Demonstrator in asking that he be allowed to employ one or two assistants at an expense probably not exceeding
2




32


$150 or $200 per term, to be paid out of the proceeds of the Department of Practical Anatomy.
To meet the urgent wants of the chairs of Surgery, Practice of Medicine, and Obstetrics, in procuring means of illustration, the Faculty
would also respectfully ask an appropriation of four hundred dollars, to
be expended by the incumbents of those chairs during the current year.
All of which is respectfully submitted by order of the Faculty.
ABRAM SAGER, Dean.
The Report was referred to the Committee on Medical
Department.
On motion of Regent Walker it was ordered that the
degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon the following


eighty-two gentlemen:
George W. Adair,
Charles Ambrook,
Casper V. Beebe,
George W. Bell,
George W. Bistline,
Samuel H. C. Bixler,
Thomas S. Blackburn,
George B. Boyn,
Darius S. Boughton,
William W. Bowes,
Irving R. S. Boardman,
Herman E. Brown,
Samuel Brough,
James J. Canedy,
Calvin A. Case,
Gideon S. Case,
Martin T. Case,
Adelbert F. Coope,
Joseph P. Couse,
Samuel Covert,
Horatio W. Crane,
Joe P. Creveling,
George A. Crooker,
Edwin Doty,
Frank Ewing,
Jacob Eccles,
James K. Farnum,
John N. Farrand,
Asa L. Fox,
Ira K. Gardner,
Franklin George,


William Greaves,
Johnson W. Hagadorn,
Arthur G. Hall,
Charles J. Hall,
Alfred J. Hamilton,
Horace J. Harding,
David Harper,
William M. Hathaway,
George W. L. Howland,
Charles D. Hews,
Gustavus Jackson.
Henry S. Jewett,
William M. Ikeler,
James M. Lewis,
George S. Lockwood,
Alexander H. Matherson,
William B. Maxon,
Peter Manson,
Thomas C. McHenry,
William R. McKinzie,
Andrew McInnis,
Orson Millard,
William P. Morrison,
Adam Overfield,
Robert Plessner,
Emmett H. Pomeroy,
Wilsou Ramey,
Elias S. Richardson,
Alexander P. Robertson,
Robert E. Robinson,
John 0. Roe,




John A. Rutan.
Henry P. Seymour,
Thomas Shaw,
John Sheehy,
James M. Swetnam,
Wallace Taylor,
Charles Thompson,
Ebenezer Tidd,
Charles F. Titus,
Orson W. Tock,


33
Joshua E. Van Camp,
Simeon 0. Whaley,
William H. Wilkinson,
Thomas J. Williams,
George W. Wilson,
Andrew Winslow,
James A. Work,
A. H. Wight,
Peter S. Wright,
Arthur C. Yengling.


Also that the degree of Bachelor of Laws be conferred
on the following 119 gentlemen, as recommended by the Law
Faculty:


Eugene Edward Allen,
Frank L. Allen,
Cosper Altenburg,
Walter W. Ames,
Munson Decker Ayers,
James W. Barnum,
Samuel 0. Bayless,
Winfield Scott Beebe,
George Anthony Blackstock,
Charles Leavett Botsford,
John D. Bradfield,
Addison Thomas Brown,
William Nathaniel Brown,
Alphonzo Hunt Bryan,
Benedict Roswell Burnett,
Edward Payson Burnett,
Eugene Carpenter,
John R. Carr,
David Warren Chandler,
Frank Wesley Clapp,
Addison Joseph Comstock,
David Manson Cook,
John Clarkson Covert,
Frank B. Crane,
Richard Augustus Curran,
George Albert Cutting,
Oliver Hays Dean,
William Crawford Denning,
John M. Doubleday,
Fletcher Wesley Dunlap,
Wilson Abram Fast,
Louis Fockler,
John Hale Fowler,


Hugh Ramsey Fulton,
Arthur Dodge Gilmore,
Henry Martin Goodell,
William Henry Govert,
Ace Gregg,
John Haggerty,
Martin Luther Hamblet,
George Harris,
Alex. Morgan Harrison,
Louis Maurice Hartwick,
Alfred Ernest Hawes,
Willard Porter Hazen,
Josiah David Hillegass,
Louis B. Hilliard,
Edward A. Holbrook,
James Edward Howell,
Marshall Laban Howell,
Benjamin Franklin Hudson,
Lozine Arnold Hurlbut,
Alonzo Hutsinpiller,
Albert Jackson,
James W. Johnson,
M. Fountaine Jones,
Albert Kavelage,
Albert Kern,
Willard Arno Kingsley,
Stephen Corbly Knight,
John Franklin Kumler,
Franklin Kutts,
George Layton,
John Strang Lee,
Newell Leonard,
Orlando Bell Lester,




34


Joseph Hampton Letherman, Palmer Worth Smith,
Ezra Dayton Lewis,         Thomas Cuthburt Snodgrass,
Philo Lockwood,            John L. Starkweather,
Orson Hopkins Look,       Maurice Starne,
Henry Lorenz,             Joseph B. Steere,
Edward Coultas Lovell,     Jacob L. Steinmetz,
Loyd Leadbetter Majors,    Walter Stephenson,
Calvin Kate"March,         Ross Conway Stone,
Peter Mitchell,            Albert Montgomery Sweetland,
Arthur M. Monteith,        Randolph Sinks Swing,
Joseph Roberts Morris,     DeWitt Holbrook Taylor,
Eldridge Morse,            Parke Edwin Temple,
Gabriel Monroe Overstreet,  Dexter Ladd Thomas,
Burton Parker,             Frank Thomas,
Charles M. Parker,         John Dinwiddie Thomas,
Isaac Harwood Pedrick,     Pliny Hudson Van Buren,
E. DeForest Price,         James Van Kleek,
Abraham R. Pugh,           Charles Eliott Vrooman,
Theodore Donohue Robb,     Jacob Henry Walliker,
Samuel Church Robison,     George W. Wannamaker,
Flemming Rogers, Jr,,      Edgar Jerome Webster,
Horace Denison Sabin,      Fred Fox Wendell,
Julius Abraham Schuyler,   James Henry Williams,
Henry Seiter,              Zenas Leander Wise,
James Mitchell Skinner,    Amos Wolfe,
John Wilson Smith,         Isaac William Wood,
James Corydon Woodburn.
On motion of Regent Stockwell, it was
Resolved, That the thanks of the University be tendered
to Messrs. Powers & Wightman, of Philadelphia, for their
present of samples of Chemical Pharmaceutical preparations;
and that the Secretary communicate the same to them.
The President reported on behalf of the Engineering
Department; that Mr. J. B. Davis had been employed to fill
the vacancy caused by the resignation of Prof. Robinson.
On motion of Regent Walker, Dr. Crosby presented a
memorial and report, which were referred to Committee on
Medical Department.




35


MEMORIAL ON FEMALE MEDICAL EDUCATION.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
Ann Arbor, March 25, 1870.
The undersigned, a committee of the Faculty of the Department
of Medicine and Surgery, having been duly elected and instructed by
their colleagues, beg leave respectfully to submit for the consideration
of the Regents certain points with reference to the medical co-education
of the sexes, which in their judgement, are not inopportune at this
time.
Several letters have already been received by the Dean, asking if
women would be recived as students into the Department of Medicine
and Surgery at the commencement of the next annual session, and other applications will doubtless be made during the next few months.
In view of these facts the Medical Faculty would respectfully beg the
Honorable Board of Regents to take the whole subject under consideration, and then favor them with such instructions as they may deem for
the best good of the University.
The undersigned would respectfully submit that the Medical Faculty entertain no prejudice against the medical education of women.
There are, however, at the present time, two parties who entertain opposite views on this question. The advocates of female medical education
claim that woman is mentally fully qualified to acquire the necessary
knowledge, that her powers of endurance are greater than those of man
-that her sensibilities and sympathies with the sick are more pronounced
-that many women would prefer a life devoted to the relief of human
suffering, rather than the cares of a family-and finally that a proper
sense of delicacy demands that the duties of the accoucher shall be
placed in the hands of women, while it is believed that the diseases of
women and children, at least, can be more properly and successfully
treated by female physicians.
The opponents of these views, on the contrary, allege that there
are insuperable obstacles in the way-that from the age of puberty
throughout the most active period of her life, woman is during a large
fraction of each month a quasi invalid-that her mental and moral manifestations are seriously perturbed at such times-that she cannot safely
bear the exposures incident to a laborious profession while thus suffer



36


ing-that every exhibition of a woman's highest function, viz: childbearing, must incapacitate her from exercising the functions of the
medical profession during a large part of the period of utero gestation,
and for'at least a year subsequently, if she ministers to her offspring in
accordance with the laws of nature-that, from her emotional nature,
even in the practice of obstetrics she would in grave emergencies, that
not unfrequently arise, lack the necessary courage and firmness-and
finally, that as child-bearing would be an insuperable obstacle in the way
of a female physician, the danger would be that feeticide and infanticide,
already alarmingly frequent, would become still more so.
With these conflicting views the undersigned have at present nothingto do, their action in this matter having no reference to the propriety
of female medical education as such, but only as to the best method by
which this can be accomplished.
In their judgement the medical co-education of the sexes is at best
an experiment of doubtful utility, and one not calculated to increase the
dignity of man, nor the modesty of woman. They believe that it must
be obvious, even to the casual observer, that a large portion of medical
instruction cannot be given in the presence of mixed classes without
offending the sense of delicacy, and refinement, which should be scrupulously maintained between the sexes.
They believe here as elsewhere that familiarity will be likely to breed
contempt; and they are decidedly of the opinion that in certain departments, at least, medical instruction should be imparted to female classes
alone. They also think that what is true of lectures, is as a rule doubly
applicable to public cliniques, where there is inevitably such an exposure
of the person, as to be indecent when the audience is made up of both
sexes.
Believing, as they do, that these views will commend themselves to
the moral and religious sense of the people of Michigan, (to say noth*ing of the delicacy and refinement which grace their homes) they would
willingly leave the whole matter of female medical education for their
intelligent, candid decision. The undersigned respectfully submit that
they are acting in this matter not only in accordance with their own convictions, but with those of the most eminent Female Physicians in the
country. It will be remembered that after the disgraceful scene which
transpired at one of the Philadelphia Hospitals, during the past winter
-from the commingling of sexes-the female medical professors stated
in the public prints that they did not approve of mingling the sexes in
public cliniques-that women should obtain a medical education by
themselves-and that they would refuse to admit young men to the Fe



37


male Medical College, should they present themselves. To avoid the
difficulties and improprieties of medical co-education, Female Medical
Colleges have already been founded in all the principle eastern cities for
the medical education of women alone, and are in successful operation.
In discoursing on female medical education, the London Lancet for
January of the present year, well says, " But if the two sexes were educated together at our Medical Colleges, it could only be at the expense
of many of those qualities for which women are admired, and by which
their influence-which is not by any means small-is exerted. It
would scarcely be practicable, with our English ideas of morality and of
the social relations of the sexes, to teach an audience of young men, and
women all the facts of Anatomy and Physiology; or to dwell upon those
connected with diseases of the sexual organs, or their results; and to
omit them altogether would leave out of consideration some of the most
important pathological facts. "
In the Edinburgh Medical Journal, for December, 1869, it is stated
that the University Court of the University of Edinburgh has adopted
a resolution that " Women should be admitted to the study of medicine
in the University, in separate classes, confined entirely to women," etc.
In view of all these considerations, the undersigned beg leave respectfullyto suggest, that the Medical Faculty of the University of Michigan hold themselves ready and willing to give a full course of medical
instruction to females, at any convenient time, and for a suitable compensation; or, should this be deemed inexpedient, they would still farther suggest, that a Female Medical College, either in Ann Arbor or the
neighboring city of Detroit, might, with propriety, receive such countenance and favor from the University as the honorable Board of Regents
might deem fit and proper.
All of which is most respectfully submitted.
Signed,       A. B. CROSBY, M. D.
S. H. DOUGLASS, M. D.
A. B. BALMER, M. D.
REPORT ON THE HOSPITAL.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The undersigned, a Committee of the Faculty of the Department
of Medicine and Surgery, beg leave to make the following brief report
on the Hospital. This institution, set in operation by the wisdom of
the Regents at the commencement of the session just past, has been in
successful operation, and has been found to supplement admirably the




38
University Clinique.  Although at its inception an experiment, it
has steadily increased in favor, and usefulness, until its desirableness is
no longer problematical.
The alterations and improvements authorized by the Regents at
their January meeting, have been made.
The introduction of an elevator, by which food and other articles
can be carried up and down from the basement through each story, the
arrangement of a forcing pump, pipes and water tanks in each ward,
the purchase of open stoves and boilers for each ward, together with
wet sinks, sequestered dirt closets, ventilators and speaking tubes from
each story to the kitchen, have all contributed to render the labor of the
house easy and efficient.
Additional beds and bedding have been procured until the Hospital now has a capacity of twenty beds. The Steward and Matron desiring to leave, the Faculty have engaged a young medical man and his
wife to take these positions by which arrangement three additional
rooms will be placed at the disposal of patients.
The number of patients has steadily increased, and, that too, without any special effort having been made.
No death has occurred, and the results of treatment have been satisfactory.
Appended to this report will be found a brief financial exhibit of
the affairs of the Hospital up to date, kindly furnished by the University Steward, Mr. Bennett.
The Faculty do not at the present time propose to ask for any large
appropriation for the Hospital. The only immediate necessity of the
Hospital being a moderate bathing establishment, the undersigned
would respectfully ask for one hundred dollars for that purpose.
The undersigned would, however, respectfully impress on the Regents the absolute necessity of much more extended hospital facilities
than the University now affords. The tide of medical opinion at present surges strongly in the direction of extended hospital and clinical
facilities in the acquirement of a medical education. With a Hospital
ranging from five hundred to a thousand beds, the Medical Department
of the University can successfully compete with even the great metropolital schools. Without, however, greatly extended hospital facilities
the prestige which the Department has acquired in the past is in danger
of being lost. Granting that this is so, it only remains to inquire if
such a plan is feasible. It is believed that with the hearty co-operation
of the friends of the University, and the State Legislature, the needed
facilities can be obtained to the actual pecuniary advantage of the State




39


-and certainly to the infinite benefit of the Medical Department. Were
a State Alms House Hospital located in Ann Arbor, on the general plan
of those at present in operation in Massachusetts, the healthfulness
of the location, the cheapness of sustaining an institution here, the
cheapness with which drugs could be manufactured in the Pharmaceutical Department of the University, and the economy in the way of
medical and surgical attendance to be obtained from the Medical Department would, it is believed, be matters of pecuniary profit to the
State, while the benefit to the University would be incalculable from the
abundance of clinical material furnished.
It is understood that a committee appointed under the auspices of
the State to investigate the abuses in County Alms Houses, will make a
report to the Legislature at its next session, and that the Governor will,
upon this report, probably make certain recommendations looking to
radical reforms in the system. The undersigned, therefore, believe
that the present time is peculiarly favorable to the inauguration of a
movement similar to that indicated above; and they would, therefore,
respectfully beg that the Regents appoint a committee of two from
their own number to co-operate with a similar committee of the Medical
Faculty, with instructions to take the whole matter of increased hospital facilities under consideration, and report at the next meeting of the
Regents such a project as may seem most desirable and profitable.
A. B. CROSBY, M. D.
Regent Stockwell from the Colmmittee on Medical Department, reported as follows:
The Committee on Medical Department, in accordance
with the suggestions of the Medical Faculty, recommend the
adoption of the following resolution:
Besolved, That a Committee of four; consisting of two
Regents and two Medical Professors, be appointed to confer
with the State Commissioners upon jails and alms-houses, appointed by the Governor, on the subject of a State Almshouse and Hospital in connection with the University-the
Committee to be appointed by the President.
Agreed to.
The President named the following' gentlemen as that
Committee: Regents Stockwell and Walker, and Professors
Crosby and Palmer.
Dr. Douglass made a statement in regard to the affairs of
3




40


the Chemical Laboratory, asking some appropriations for the
same.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the time of the payment of
half the sum of $1,200 loan to the Laboratory, was extended
one year.
On motion of Regent Walker, it was
Resolved, That the President and Secretary give 3r.
Joseph B. Steere, an alumnus of the University, who designs
to make scientific collections abroad, such proper certificate as
may be necessary to authorize him to collect specimens of
natural history for the University.
Regent Gilbert, from Committee on Medical Department,
reported favorably on the recommendation of the Medical
Faculty in relation to certain Professorships; and on motion,
Dr. Henry S. Cheever was appointed Professor of Therapeutics and Materia Medica, and Dr. Alpheus B. Crosby Professor of Surgery, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
McGowan.
Also Dr. George E. Frothinghama was appointed Lecturer
on Ophthalmology.
On motion, it was
]lesolvcd, That the Demonstrator of Anatomy be allowed
to employ two or more assistants, at an expense not to exceed
8150.
Ayes —Regents S weezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
McGowan.
Regent Willard moved the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to
provide at the next Commencement a Commencement Collation to which the Officers, Faculty, and Altumni of the University, together with the alumni of other universities and
colleges shall be invited, and to report the cost to the Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to 8 o'clock to-morrow
morning.




4]


WEDNESDAY ~MORNING, MARCHi 30, 1870.
Board met at 8 o'clock, A. Ir.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.
Regent Walker introduced the following resolution:
_Resolved, That the Executive Committee be requested to
report on the necessity of re-seating the recitation rooms, with
an estimate of the expense, and that the same Committee
with Prof. Douglass be requested to examine and report on the
practicability of ventilating the same rooms, with estimates of
the expense.
Regent Gilbert moved, that when the Board adjourn, it
adjourn to meet on Monday evening, June 27th, at 8 o'clock.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the memorials presented by
Dr. Crosby yesterday, were ordered printed with the minutes,
500 extra copies of the Memorial on Female Education to be
printed for general distribution, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Gilbert presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the subject of new buildings or new accommodations for the   Departments of Engineering and
Physics, be referred to a special committee of three, to be appointed by the President, with full power to act.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
The President named as that committee, Regents Gilbert,
Walker, and McGowan.
The following appropriations were recommended by the
Finance Committee:
FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
For rubber matting for stairs..................$125 00
"'  Remission of fees to J. S. Davidson............ 20 00
c       <"(c  "   Robert G. Wallace......... 20 00
' Advertising Law and Medical Departments..... 300 00




42


For Contingent fund...........................$1000 00
Postage..............................      100 00
"  Insurance...........,......... 100 00
'  Improvement of grounds..................... 300 00
"  Regent's  expenses......................   79  90
$2044 90
F'OM STATE AID FUND.
For deficit in Hospital Appropriation............. $175 00
"  Bath house for hospital...................... 100 00
"  Means of illustrations in Medical Department..  400 00
9"         "     Chemical    "        300 00
"  Cistern for Mledical Department............... 150  0
$1125 00
F'ROM CONTINGENT FUND.
For incidental expenses of Prof. Winchell's Dept... $100 00
'  Lumber for Medical Department..............    13 74
"  Charts and books for Prof. Tyler's Department,  55 00
"  Mathematical apparatus......................   60 00
$228 74
Ordered by the following vote
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion, the Board went into Executive session, after
which Regent Gilbert presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That Prof: Douglass be authorized to expend
during the coming year a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars, in the purchase of Mineralogical specimens for the University, to be drawn from the State Aid Fund.
Adopted by the following vote:
Alyes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
H. D. BENNETT', Secey.




JUNE MEETING, 1870.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 27, 1870. 
The Board convened at 9 A. Mr., and in the absence of
the Acting Psesident, on motion of' Regent Gilbert, Regent
Willard was elected chairman.
The following members of the Board were present: Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, and McGowan.
Regent Gilbert, from the special committee on the subject
of increased recitation rooms, etc., reported adversely to the
project of undertaking any building at 'present, and in favor
of reseating the rooms now in use.
On motion of Regent McGowan, the report was accepted
and the committee discharged.
The chairman presented a resolution of the Senate relative to changes in professorships, which iwas laid on the table
for further consideration.
Regent Estabrook catne in and took his seat.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the communication from the
Senate was taken from the table, and the appointments recommended were made-Dr. Silas H. Douglass to be Professor of
Chemistry and Mineralogy, and Director of the Chemical
Laboratory, and Dr. Albert B. Prescott to be Professor of
Organic and Applied Chemistry and Pharmacy-by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert,
Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Stockwell, from the Committee on Medical Department, presented a report on the medical co-education of
the sexes, which, on motion, was laid on the table.
Professor Douglass presented the annual report of the




44


Chemical Department, which, on motion of Regent Burt, was
referred to the Finance Committee.
The chairman presented a communication from the
Faculty of the Pharmacy Department, recommending the following twenty-eight (28) gentlemen as candidates for the degree of pharmaceutical chemist:
CHARLES A. BOEHME,        JOHN R. JONES,
WILLIAM A. BUCHANAN,      GEORGE H. LOHMAN,
JOHN C. W. CAREY,         WILLIAM McKIMMIE,
THEODORE G. CASE,         OTIS A. MERRELL,
ALBERT C. CURTIS,         CHARLES W. MILLS,
FRANK EWING,              JAMES R. MOSS,
CHARLES E. FORD,          WILLIAM E. NEWTON,
ARTHUR C. GOWER,          ISAAC N. NEWMAN,
GEORGE O. GUY,            SAMUEL V. ROMIG,
PETER N. HAGLE,           JOHN O. ROE,
HORACE F. HATCH,          MERARI B. STEVENS,
GEORGE E. HIGGINS,        WALLACE TAYLOR,
CORNELIUS C. HOWELL,      WILLIAM A. WOLCOTT,
HENRY S. JEWETT,          EUGENE J. WEEKS.
On motion, the degree was ordered conferred.
On motion, the honorary degree of Master of Arts was ordered conferred on the Hon. J. M. B. Sill.
The chairman presented a communication from Professor
Ford, asking an appropriation for making purchases for the
Medical Department, in Europe.
Referred to the Committee on Medical Department.
Regent Gilbert, from the Finance Committee, reported
recommending the continuance of the loan to the Chemical
Laboratory another year, which, on motion, the Board granted.
Professor Wood presented the report of the Engineering
Department, and recommended the appointment of an assistant in that Department.
On motion, the report was referred to the Committee on
Scientific Course.
On motion the Board took a recess.
On reassembling, Regent Burt moved the following appropriations from the State Aid Fund: For seating Professor
Tyler's room, $250; for seating Professor Evans' room, $200;
the same to be expended under the direction of the respective
Professors and the Steward.




45
Ordered by the following vote: Ayes —Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the report of the Committee
on Medical Department "( on the admission of women to that
Department," was taken from the table. After discussion the
report was laid on the table for consideration until the September meeting, and the Committee on Medical Department,
together with the Medical Faculty, were instructed to report
the probable expense attending the institution of extra courses
of lectures, as contemplated in the report.
The Committee on Medical Department reported back
the communication from Dr. Ford, and recommended an appropriation of $500 for the purposes therein named. It was
ordered by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Stockwell,
Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion of Regent McGowan, Professor M. L. D'Ooge
was elected Professor of the Greek Language and Literature,
and Professor Elisha Jones, Acting Professor of the Greek
Language and Literature, at a salary of $1,500 per annum.
Regent Burt presented the following:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents are
hereby tendered to the graduating class of 1870, in the Department of Science, Literature, and Arts, for the beautiful
bronzed statue of Franklin presented by them to the University.
Agreed to.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of
the Department of Science, Literature, and Arts, the following
degrees were ordered conferred:
MINIIG- E;NG-INEER.
CLARENCE M. BOSS,          CHARLES P. GILBERT,
WILLIAM J. WATERS.
CIVIL ENGG-INTEEL-R.
JUDSON S. BIRD,            CHARLES J. KINTNER,
HARLOW P. DAVOCK,          GEORGE W. MICKLE,
LUTHER E. FERGUSON,        ALFRED NOBLE,
CHARLES P. GILBERT,        HENRY C. RIPLEY.
JAMES A. HAYWARD,          WARREN C. WILLETTS,




46


BAOCH}EIOR
CHARLES S. CARTER,
WILLIAM R. DAY,
HARLOW P. DAVOCK,
WILLIAM T. EMERSON,
MORRIS B. FOSTER,
JOHN C. HOWLAND,
EUGENE KETCHUM,
JOHN S. MALTMAN,
BACHELOR Ool


OF SCIENCE.
MILO E. MARSH,
CLARK OLDS,
DARIUS C. PENNINGTON,
AARON T. PERRY,
WILLIAM H. SCHOCK,
ALEXANDER THOMPSON,
OLIVER H. WATTLES,
CHARLES M. WELLS.


T iPECIILOSOPHIY.


OSCAR J. CAMPBELI
WASHINGTON HYDI
OWEN E. LEFEVRE,


BERNARD MOSES,
LEONARD E. STOCKING,
BURRIE L. SWIFT,
CHARLES G. WING.


BACEIIELO R
ARTHUR C. ADAMS,
MARCUS BAKER,
JOHN A. BALDWIN,
CHARLES BALLENGER,
HENRY H. BARLOW,
GEORGE W. BATES.
WOOSTER W. BEMAN.
JULIUS A. BLACKBURN,
JAMES H. BLANCHARD,
FRANK BRADLEY,
PATRICK H. BUMPUS,
CHARLES F. BURTON,
THOMAS H. BUSH,
GEORGE T. CAMPAU,
OSCAR J. CAMPBELL,
THOMAS C. CHRISTY,
EUGENE F. COOLEY,
GEORGE E. DAWSON,
CHARLES K. DODGE,
CHARLES S- EDWARDS, JR.,


OF ARTS.
RUSSELL ERRETT,
ROBERT N. FEARON,
ACHILLES FINLEY,
EDWIN FLEMING,
GEORGE J. FRENCH,
OTIS E. HAVEN,
FRANK H. HOWE,
FRANCIS W. JONES,
VINCENT S. LOVELL,
WILLIAM F. MATHEWS,
WILLIAM L. PENFIELD,
SAMUEL B. PRICE,
WALTER B. STEVENS,
RUFUS H. THAYER,
ORLANDO F. TINDALL,
JAMES F. TWEEDY,
PETER VOORHEIS,
ALBERT W. WEISBROD,
CHARLES R. WHITMAN,
S. ROBERTSON WINCHELL,


THOMAS WYLIE.


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
JAMES BELLANGEE,        MILTON JACKSON,
ALBERT M. HENRY,        JABEZ MONTGOMERY.


vIMASTER
WELLINGTON CARLTON,
GEORGE M. CHESTER,
GEORGE E. CHURCH,
HENRY P. CHURCHILL,
OLIVER P. DICKINSON,
HORTON H. DRURY,
EDWARD S. ELMER,


OF ARTS.
JOHN GRAVES,
HENRY M. HURD,
0. S. INGHAM,
ELBERT L. MILLER,
JOSEPH RE1D,
JOHN A. ROLLINS,
HENRY SMITH




47
ISAAC N. ELWOOD,           FRANK A. SCOTT,
GEORGE A. FOSTER,          JEROME W. TURNER,
HENRY N. FRENCH,           DAVID B. TAYLOR,
LESTER O. GODDARD,         HENRY M. UTLEY.
CORNELIUS A. GOWER.        EDWARD W. WETMORE.
On motion the Board adjourned till 2 p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Board met at 2 P. M.
Minutes of morning session read and approved.
Professor Wood presented the report and vouchers of the
Engineering Department, and also a request for a new instrument.
Regent McGowan, from the Committee on Scientific
Course, presented the following:
Resolved, That the degree of Mechanical Engineer, as
established by action of the Board December 22, 1868, be and
the same is hereby abolished, and the course of Civil Engineering be so extended as to include the main part of the course
of Mechanical Engineering as heretofore prescribed.
Agreed to.
Regent McGowan also reported back the request for the
appointment of an assistant, and moved that C. D. Lawton be
appointed Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering for the
term of one year, at the usual salary. Agreed to by a vote as
follows: Ayes-Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt,
Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent IMcGowan moved, that the Steward be instructed
to procure a new bell, of the same weight as the old one, exchanging the old one and paying the difference florn the general fund. Ordered as follows: Ayes-Regents Stockwell,
Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Estabrook moved that the question of the salary
of Professor E. Jones be reconsidered, which was agreed to.
Regent Estabrook moved that the salary be fixed at $2,000.
On motion of Regent Gilbert this was amended so as to be
be made $1,800, and agreed to by the Board by the following




48
vote: Ayes-Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Gilbert, from the Finance Committee, moved the
following appropriations:
Postage..................................    $100  00
Fuel and Lights.......................... 2,000 00
Insurance....................................  300  00
Contingent.......................... 1,000 00
Hospital deficit................................  220  00
Wm. Webb, assistance to Professor Wood........     8 00
Ordered as follows: Ayes-Regents Stockwell, Willard,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion of Regent McGowan, the price of diplomas was
changed from $3 to $5.
The Board took a recess till 4 p. x.
When the Board convened, on the recommendation of
the Medical Faculty, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was
ordered conferred on Messrs. Halsey B. Jencks, H. R. Wilder,
and Nelson S. Witting.
Regent Stockwell, from the Committee. on Medical Departrent, reported the following:
Resolved, That a sum not exceeding $370 be appropriated
for the purpose of painting and graining the medical lecturerooms and vestibules thereto, to be expended under the direction of Professor Douglass and the Steward of the University,
and paid for from the fund for " alterations and repairs."
Agreed to by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Estabrook presented the report of the Librarian
for the year 1869-70, and offered the following:
Resolved, That Raymond C. Davis receive for the next
year the salary of an Assistant Professor, viz.: $1,300, for his
services as Assistant Librarian.
Resolved, That $400 be appropriated for additional aid in
library work.
On motion the Board adjourned till 8 p. r.




49


EVENING SESSION.
Board met at 81 r. M.. and entered upon the consideration of the report of the Librarian.
Regent Gilbert moved as an amendment to the resolution
introduced by Regent Estabrook, that $1,000 be placed at the
disposal of the Library Committee and the Librarian, for aid
in the library for the ensuing year. The amendment was
agreed to. The resolution as amended passed by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt,
Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Gilbert moved the appropriation of $133 55 for
Regents' expenses, and $500 for alterations and repairs. Ordered as follows: Regents Stockwell, Willard, Gilbert, Burt,
Estabrook, and McGowan.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty
of the Department of Law, the degree of Bachelor of Laws
was ordered conferred on Gabriel Franklin Hargo.
On motion of Regent Estabrook, the President was anu
thorized to confer any additional degrees in the regular courses
which the Faculty may recommend.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, the 20th of
September, at 8 P. M.         H. D. BENNETT,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF' MICHIGAN,) 
July 26, 1870.
The Board of Regents met in Special Session at 7, o'clock
P. M., on call of the Executive Committee.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
The meeting was opened with religious exercises by reading of the scriptures and prayer.
Regent Walker, chairman of the Executive Committee,
stated that the object of the meeting was, to make some suitable provisions, or devise some practicable method for the
education of women in the Medical Department of the University. The Dean of the Medical Faculty being present, was
invited to present the views of that Faculty upon the subject,
which he did in the following report:
ANN ARBOR, July 26, 1870.
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
On behalf of the Medical Faculty, the undersigned begs
leave to submit the views of that Faculty in relation to the
medical education of women; and express their sentiments
in regard to the only feasible method for accomplishing it.
At several meetings recently held, resolutions have been
passed reaffirming the views expressed in a Report of the
Faculty lately submitted, and declaring their clear conviction
of the inexpediency of the co-education of the sexes. These
convictions moreover have been confirmed by the lessons of
experience of other schools, frankly communicated to us, in
which the experiment has been fairly tried and under favorable
auspices; and with the result of more firmly establishing the
rule of prohibition.




They have also instructed me to express their belief that
the only practical method of attaining the object sought, is by
a complete course of instruction separate, and in all respects
apart from that given to the other class; having in view not
only the indelicacy of such commom instruction upon many
topics, but also what we deem of equal consideration, the
difficulty of restraining improprieties of deportment, and
checking insubordination, in large classes of mixed students
assembled in a common lecture room.
Touching the subject of expense involved in the execution
of this plan, the Faculty are of the opinion that a sum equal
to at least one half of their present salaries would be but a
fair and just remuneration; but in view of the intimated state
of the Finances, and of the probably small attendance for
several years, would agree to execute the plan contemplated
for $500 for each course until the state of finances and the increased number of students shall warrant an increased remuneration.
By order of the Faculty,
A. SAGER, Dean.
Letters from Professors of other Medical Colleges, in
reference to Medical Co-education of the sexes were read;
and several members of the Medical Faculty, by request of the
Board, expressed their views fully upon the subject under consideration.
Regent Gilbert offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the plan of educating women in the
Medical Department of the University, as submitted by the
Medical Faculty, be adopted by the Board of Regents.
Adopted by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Nay-Regent Willard. Regent Willard voting in the
negative, explained that he did so because he believed that
women could properly be admitted to most medical lectures in
common with male students, and asked that his explanation be
placed on record.
Regent Walker presented the account of Messrs. Hobson
& Webb, of Detroit, for services rendered as Taxidermists,
and moved its reference to Prof. Winchell for examination,
and asked that the sum of $150 be advanced upon same.




53


Ordered-by the following vote:  Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Williard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Gilbert made a statement in reference to heating
the north building, also the remainder of the law building by
steam, and offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the process of heating the north building,
also the remainder of the law building by steam, be completed
as originally contemplated, and that Professor Douglass and
the Secretary of the Board, be authorized to expend a sum
not exceeding $750 for that purpose, to be paid from the State
Aid Fund.
Adopted by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Acting President Frieze made a statement in reference to
the importance of preparing and printing a Triennial Catalogue
and asked that an appropriation be made for that purpose.
On motion of Regent Willard, it wasResolved, That the sum of $200 be appropriated for the
printing of the Triennial Catalogue, in addition to the $300
appropriated for that purpose April 1, 1869.
Adopted by vote as follows:  Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Gilbert, from the Finance Committee, recommended the following appropriations:
For use of Methodist Episcopal Church, last year.. $300 00
For Printing 3000 Medical and Law Announcements,  60 00
For Regents' Expenses........................... 100 10
Ordered by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and2McGowan.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Board went into Executive session, after which Regent Willard offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That Mark W. Harrington be, and is hereby
appointed Instructor in French and Mathematics in addition
to his duties in the Museum, and that his salary be fixed at
$1,300.




54
Agreed to by vote as follows: Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion the Board adjourned sine die.
H. D. BENNETT,
Secretary.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,      I
Ann Arbor, Sept. 20, 1870.
The Board of Regents met pursuant to adjournment of June 27.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey, Walker.
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
The session was opened by the reading of the Scriptures and
Prayer.
Regent Gilbert, from the Finance Committee, presented the report of the financial condition of the University as follows:
To the Hon. the Board of Regents of the University of Michgan:
The Finance Committee submit the following statement of the
financial condition of the University on the 30th day of June, 1870, the
close of the fiscal year.
The receipts into the Treasury have been as follows:
Bal. in Treasury July 1, 1869...............................$21,677 04
(Of this amount $9,293 75 was due that day for salaries.)
Rec'd from the State Treasurer during the year on account
of University Int. Fund............................. 30,000 00
Received for Students' fees, Diplomas, etc.................. 22,039 04
Rec'd on account of Annual State Aid Appropriation........ 11,250 00
Total.......................................... $84,966 08
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid for Salaries, wages of Janitor, etc........ $52,922 50
For Warrants outstanding, July 1, 1869.......... 1,050 00
For account of Gen. Library.................... 1,156 80
"   "   Med.   ".......................   200 00
" " Law          ".......................  400  00
Contingent Expenses.......................... 14,438 51
Bal. in Treas. to Cr. of General Fund............ 14,798 27
Total............................... -----    84,966 08




56


The sum of $11,162 50 was due July 1st, 1870, for the salaries of the
last quarter of the year, to be paid from the above balance of $14,798 27.
The Secretary of the Board has prepared a detailed statement of
the disbursements under the head of contingent expenses, amounting
to $14,438 51, which is herewith submitted. Your Committee have
examined the vouchers, and find the account correctly stated.
STATE AID.
The aid to the University voted by the Legislature of 1867, amounted
to $30,796 60 before it came into possession of the University. This
was made a special fund to meet extraordinary expenses. The disbursements from it have been forPurchase of Dr, Sager's Col'n in Med. Museum... $1,000 00
Dr. Ford's            do       and int....... 3,215 83
Rominger Collection in General Museum......... 1,500 00
Van Vechten       do         do........    200 00
Museum Cases...............................   1,010 00
Steam heating appar. for Law and Med. buildings
and  Laboratory..........................  10,007  48
Hospital Furniture.............................  575  00
Loan  to  Laboratory.............................  1,200  00
(This loan will probably be repaid within two years)
Amount transferred to reserve fund to replace the
am't. it has been necessary to use for building
purposes...................................  4,000  00
For special repairs on dwelling.................  100 00
Total..................................-       22,808  31
Balance June 30, 1870.................... $7,988 29
Other appropriations made since the 30th, and the expense of a new
fence about the University grounds will reduce this fund to about $6,000. The large expenditures from this fund for steam heating apparatus, was an absolute necessity. The Law Building, with all the valuable
Libraries of the University was in great danger of destruction by fire.
Your Committee think that that building, as well as all the others
warmed by steam, safe from fire. Our expectations in regard to reduced insurance, and cost of fuel, have been realized.
Your Committee have examined the vouchers for all the expenditures of the year, and find them correct.
RESERVE FUND.
Michigan 7 per cent War. Bonds......................... $7,000 00
East Saginaw 10 per cent School Bonds...................  6,500 00
Ann Arbor City 7 per cent Observatory Bonds............. 2,500 00




Ann Arbor City 7 per cent Med. College Bonds............  600 00
Cash  (accrued interest)....................................  1,273  00
Total........................................... $17,873  00
It will be remembered that this fund represents in part the money
received for a lot in Detroit, and used for building purposes.
Your Committee estimate the receipts into the treasury of the University for the year ending June 30, 1871, as follows:
Balance in hand June 30, 1870............................$14,798 27
Interest on University Fund.............................. 37,000 00
Annual State Aid Appropriation........................... 15,000 00
Students' Fees, Diplomas, etc.............................. 18,000 00
Rent of  Dwellings........................................  500  00
Interest on Deposits of University Fund (18 months)....... 1,000 00
Total............................             $86,298 27
The disbursements for the same time we estimate as follows:
For amount due for Salaries June 30, 1869....... $9,293 75
For Salaries first three quarters of current year'.. 48,325 00
Annual Catalogue...............................  1,200  00
Repairs, etc....................................  1,500  00
Regents and Visitors' expenses................  700 00
Insurance......................................  1,300  00
Fuel and Lights................................  2,700 00
Libraries.......................................  2,500  00
Improvement of Grounds.......................    400 00
Other Expenses............................... 4,000 00
~ --- —-$71,918 75
Balance June 30,1871..........................$14,379 52
From this amount it will be necessary to deduct for the salaries
for the last quarter of the current year............$11,675 00
Actual surplus............................. $2,702 52
if the estimate of receipts is realized, and the board adheres strictly to
the estimates in the appropriations.
The report of the Treasurer of the University is herewith presented. His vouchers have been examined and found correct.
It will be observed that our present scale of expenditure absorbs
the entire resources of the University, and that the board will not be justified in making appropriations beyond the estimates of the Finance
Committee without at the same time providing the means to meet them.
The buildings and other property of the University have been
kept in good order during the past year; thanks to the care and care



58


ful attention of the Steward. The timely aid granted by the State has
kept the University from ]bankruptcy, and enabled the board to add
materially to its usefulness.
If the Legislature could be induced to grant us sufficient aid to
erect another building about the capacity of the law building, to be
used for recitation purposes, the most pressing needs of the University
would be fairly met.
THoMAs D. GILBERT, Chairman.
On motion of Regent Walker, the report was accepted.
Regent Stockwell came in and took his seat.
Regent Walker presented the following, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be given to S.
Don Elwood, Esq., for the gift of a beautiful stuffed specimen of the
American bald-headed Eagle-and that the same in accordance with the
wishes of the donor be presented to Domingo F. Sarmiento, LL. D.,
President of the Argentine Republic in return for his valuable contributions in natural history to the museum.
The President presented the resignation of Professor E. P. Evans,
which on motion was accepted.
The President also presented the resignation of Professor Adam
K. Spence, which was accepted.
The President farther reported from the Executive Committee,
that Prof. Geo. H. Morris had been engaged as Professor of Modern
Languages, and also that Mr. G. Marsburg had been engaged as instructor in German, and Mr. Jules Deloulme as instructor in French.
In accordance with this report, Regent Walker presented the
following:
Resolved, That Geo. S. Morris,:A. M., be appointed Professor of
Modern Languages and Literature in the University, at the usual salary
of a Professor.
Agreed to as follows: Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent McGowan, Mr. Geo. Marsburg was appointed instructor in German, and Mr. Jules Deloulme instructor in
French, by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell,
Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent McGowan, it wasResolved, That Mr. Mark M. Harrington be released from the duty
of instructor in French.
Regent Walker presented the case of Dr. Frothingham's salary,
and moved that it be made $1,300, Agreed to as follows:  YeasRegents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and
McGowan.
The Acting President presented his Annual Report, as follows:




59


PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL REPORT.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents of the iuniversity of Michigan:
The Acting President begs leave to present his report of the condition and work of the University for the Academic Year 1869-70.
Under the blessing of God, the University has passed through another year of marked prosperity. The Faculties have been harmonious and efficient, and the Students have been earnest and successful
The experience of the year has given encouraging proof that the institution, though still young, has already attained that internal strength
and that self-regulating movement, which enable it to pass quite undisturbed through changes which may occur either in its presidency or its
corps of instructors.
Certainly no university can deserve its title so long as it depends
for its stability and prosperity on individual officers, however eminent.
And yet we should never forget that the very strength in which
we now rejoice, is largely due to those pioneer Professors, and
especially to those two distinguished Presidents, who successively
planned and organized, multiplied and perfected its educational machinery, and who so long and anxiously watched and directed its movements.
THE ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
In the Department of Science, Literature; and the Arts, the number of students as registered for the year is four hundred and seventyseven, distributed among the several classes and courses as follows:
Seniors..................... 74  In Selected Studies.......... 70
Juniors.................... 67  In Higher Chemistry........ 24
Sophomores................ 83    In Pharmacy............ 39
Freshmen.................. 114   Resident Graduates.........  4
In Mining Engineering.....  2
Total........  477




60


THE NEED OF MORE INSTRUCTORS AND MORE AMPLE
ACCOMMODATIONS.
The constant growth of this department is at once a source of gratification and of embarrassment. While it increases the power and reputation of the University, it necessitates a constant addition both to the
corps of instructors, and to the accommodations for lectures and recitations. Thoroughness of instruction, and justice to students in the undergraduate and disciplinary courses, require that large classes should
be subdivided into sections for most of their exercises; particularly in
the languages and mathematics. With us a still larger number of sections, officers, and lecture rooms is necessary, because of the several parallel courses of study which the University, in its desire to keep abreast
with the times, has from year to year added to the original plan of
this department.
It is obvious that this difficulty must be met either by limiting this
department to its present numbers, and shutting off all increase in the
future, or else by gradually multiplying the officers of instruction, and
furnishing additional rooms for their accommodation. Which alternative shall be adopted can scarcely be a question. Neither your Honorable Board, nor the State at large, I suppose, would entertain for a moment the proposition, to limit the students of any department in the
University, to a definite and fixed number, and to exclude any applicant
beyond this, however well prepared for admission. Such a measure
would be incompatible with the very idea of a University, especially a
State University, and one originating in the gift of the General Government. This department, therefore, as long as it shall continue to have
any life and vigor at all, and to be worthy of the State, and of its national
origin, cannot cease to attract still increasing numbers, and to ask for the
means and the men to give them instruction. This necessary and gradual addition to the Faculty, can only be secured in the present poverty
of our funds, by keeping the several courses of study under the supervision of able Professors, and by placing subordinate Instructors or Tutors under their direction, to supplement their work in the more elementary parts.
Harvard University has employed, during the last academic year,
twelve Tutors and Instructors, besides a number of Assistants and Adjunct Professors. Yale, and nearly all the older institutions, were long
ago compelled to adopt a similar practice. With an income much less
than half that of Harvard, certainly we cannot hope to employ full Professors in every branch and grade of study. But apart from financial
considerations, and the precedent afforded by American colleges, I
might justify the practice by referring to the usage of European insti



61


tutions, and to its intrinsic advantage. A very considerable portion of
the instruction in our colleges has been, and I fear will long continue
to be, of a character nearly, or absolutely, elementary. This is largely
true of the ancient languages, and of scientific studies, and absolutely
true, at present, of the modern languages. To give to that work the
whole time and strength of the most profound and cultivated scholars
of our Faculties, is manifestly absurd; especially when experience
proves, that young and vigorous teachers, fresh from the detail of elementary study, often perform this work more efficiently, than those of
riper years and broader attainments. But when our students have advanced beyond this stage of education, and become mature in mind, the
higher order of instruction, the lectures on science, literature, or philosophy, naturally, and necessarily come in.
How we are to provide for the increased expense of instruction,
which must be incurred even under the most economical arrangement,
I do not now undertake to discuss. I only present the necessity of increased facilities for instruction as vital to the Academic Department at
the present moment.
As to the inadequacy of the building and apartments in which
most of its work is carried on, the Honorable Board cannot fail to be as
painfully impressed, as the Faculty itself. Certainly no Union School
District in this State, would think it creditable, either to its enterprise
or humanity, to shut up its youth in such rooms as the Academic Department of the University is now compelled to occupy. And it should be
borne in mind, that while the department numbers upwards of four
hundred and fifty, its accommodations, with the exception of the Chemmical Laboratory, are substantially the same as fifteen years ago, when
it numbered exactly one hundred and fifty-five, or one-third of its present number; while also its courses of study have been multiplied from
two to six, and its officers of instruction from ten to twenty-one.
I think it is not generally understood that the Academic Department has even now no hall of sufficient size to contain its students when
assembled for chapel exercises or for general lectures; and that for all
these purposes it is compelled to resort to the law lecture room, and
thus not unfrequently to put the Law Department to serious inconvenience.
I may remark here, that in the present crowded state of this department, the rooms and passage-ways in the building now occupied,
would be a source of constant disorder and confusion, were it not for
the caution and forbearance of the students.
Under these circumstances, it seems to me reasonable that most
earnest attention should be given at once to this'vital want of the Academic Department.




62


NUMBER MATRICULATED AND AGE OF FRESHMAN CLASS.
The number of new students matriculated in the Freshman and
other classes of this Department during the year was one hundred and
sixty-five. The age of the Freshman class, at the time of matriculation
was on an average, nineteen and a fraction; only one applicant was less
than sixteen. It thus appears that the rule which fixes the minimum
age for admission at sixteen, conforms to the existing fact in regard to
age, and without interfering with any present demand, or disappointing
the present expectations of any, will guard the University from danger
in this direction hereafter.
THE PREPARATORY SCHOOLS AND            THEIR RELATION TO
THE UNIVERSITY.
The preparatory training of students for this department is steadily improving; especially in the schools of the State. This fact is highly important and encouraging. If a genuine University is ever to exist,
either here or any where else in America, it is to be built on a much
higher scholarship in the preparatory schools and academies. These
must be advanced to the character of gymnasiums, and they must do a
large part of the work of our present colleges, before a University shall
be possible. Educators, we may hope, are becoming aware of the fact,
that our first collegiate institutions, and, so called, Universities, even
after an existence of from one to two centuries, afford an education in
those very studies on which they most pride themselves, decidedly inferior to that of the European High School or Gymnasium, antecedent to
the University. A tacit acknowledgement of this fact is afforded in the
constantly growing custom of supplementing the education of our University graduates, and even University professors, by a residence of
two or more years at foreign Universities. I do not see how American
educators and academic corporations can any longer sit contented under this state of things.
The remedy lies in raising step by step the requirements for admission to the Academic Department, not only in the classics and mathematics, but in every branch of gymnasial study, until at last the local
High Schools shall have occupied their proper ground, and the University shall thus be enabled to take on its true character and functions.
As long as a gymnasium, scarcely of the first rank, is the American
substitute for a University, forms the very central life and soul of the
institution, employs the best University talent and consumes the University endowments, standing before the public as the dispenser of literary honors, and assuming to give our young men the highest education they can aspire to, as long as it remains entrenched in its present




63
position, neither yielding its ground nor submitting to innovation or
progress, its graduates must indeed seek in foreign lands the true University.
ADVANTAGES POSSESSED          BY   MICHIGAN    IN  ITS HIGH
SCHOOLS.
I cannot but think that there are existing in this State the conditions which, seized upon now, and carefully watched and improved,
will in the end develope the gymnasium in its proper place, and
secure to us the true University.  One public High School of
this State at the close of the present year, has sent into our
Academic Department a class of thirty-five students, well prepared'
The High Schools of the State in general are yearly coming into more
intimate relations to the University, and sending increasing numbers
to its halls. If University and local school authorities shall co-operate
in elevating and multiplying their courses of study, and in arranging
them as parts and grades of a connected and progressive system, it will
manifestly be but the work of time, to bring up the best and most enterprising of these seminaries to the position of gymnasiums, and to
the level of attainment which we so desire to realize, and thus in the
end it will be possible for the University to drop its elementary teaching, and to do its proper work. Its Faculty of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, will then become a genuine Faculty of Philosophy and Science, and, in conjunction with the professional faculties, make the institution approximate more nearly to the character it aspires to. If we
compare the present qualifications for admission to the Academic Department with those required fifteen years ago, it will be apparent that
very decided progress has been made in the standard of preparatory
scholarship. This we regard, however, as only the earnest of the still
greater advancement which the department is to make hereafter in the
same direction. Most fortunately, in this effort we are assured of the
hearty sympathy and cooperation of the State Union and High Schools.
Many of them have already expressed themselves more than ready to
carry into effect all the improvements which may be recommended in
the preparatory courses, whether in ancient languages, in modern languages, or in scientific studies. And, as a means of strengthening, consolidating, and elevating the whole State system, some of our best educators, both in the local schools and in the University, have proposed
that a commission of examiners from the Academic Faculty, should visit
annually such schools as may desire it, and give certificates to those pupils who may be successful in their examinations, entitling them to admission, without further examination, to the University.




64


VARIED COURSES OF STUDY AN ADDITIONAL HELP.
The organization of the instruction in this department in various
parallel courses of study, with equal privileges and honors, already secures to us a great advantage in carryingiforward this important reform.
This diversity and comprehensiveness and freedom of choice, while incompatible with a gymnasium, is of the very essence of a University.
And though it will be long before we shall reach the proper standard
of scholarship in all these various courses, and completely fill dut the
plan, yet the very existence of this liberal scheme, and its capability of
indefinite elevation and expansion, keep us in constant readiness for the
transition from the gymnasium to the University. Had we persisted in
maintaining in exclusive possession of the ground, the old classical
curriculum, so admirable in itself, and so perfect as a discipline antecedent to the University, yet always claiming to be the very substance of
the institution, and obstinately resisting all new courses as rivals, or else
admitting them only to a subordinate and almost menial position, we
should have witnessed here that false and foolish antagonism, which
elsewhere has been provoked between classical and scientific studies,
and which in a broad and liberal and true University, would be absurd
and even impossible; and we should have found our University, or
what in our old "colleges" is the same thing, its "academic department," entrenched and fortified against all progress, and itself the most
obstinate foe to its own advancement.
THE PARALLEL COURSES AS NOW ORGANIZED.
The parallel courses now open in this Department are six: the
Classical, the Scientific, the Latin Scientific, the Greek Scientific, Civil
Engineering, and Mining Engineering. These courses during the last
year have been well attended and conducted with marked efficiency.
Instruction has been given as usual, partly by lecture, but chiefly by
recitations, based generally on the study of text books, and by daily reviews and frequent examinations.
EXAMINATIONS.
The term examinations have been conducted both by the oral
method and by writing. I believe that it is the prevailing sentiment of
educators that both methods have advantages, and that both should be
preserved.  While the examinations of this University maintain a
standard of excellence quite equal to that of American colleges in general, and we might venture to say even superior to many, it is not to be
disguised that they fall far behind the attainments which universities
ought to demand. In Europe, indeed, the examination is the grand lever



65
age which in all high institutions elevates and maintains scientific and literary scholarship. Take away European examinations, and those noble
universities would speedily degenerate or even die out. This university
should endeavor to make its examinations more significant.
NUMBER OF GRADUATES IN THE ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
The number of students in this Department who have sustained
examinations for degrees during the year, is one hundred and four; as
follows:
Pharmaceutical Chemists......................... 28
Civil  Engineers...................................  11
Mining Engineers...................................  2
Bachelors of Science..............................  15
Bachelors  of Philosophy............................  7
Bachelors  of Arts.................................  40
Master of Arts (on Examination)....................  1
Total...............................    -  104
One of the above graduates received diplomas both in'Civil and
Mining Engineering, one Bachelor of Science received a diploma in
Civil Engineering, and one Bachelor of Arts received jalso the diploma
of Bachelor of Philosophy.
The degree of Master of Science was conferred in course upon three
of the Alumni; and that of Master of Arts on twenty-two.
The honorary degree of Master of Arts was conferred upon the
Honorable John M. B. Sill, ex-Regent of the University.
AGE OF THE GRADUATING CLASS.
The average age of the graduating class was twenty-three years
and six months. It appears by comparing this with the age of the
Freshman class, that the average age of students for the last four years
has continued nearly unchanged, and that the present age of students in
this Department is nearly twenty-one years. The age of students at
Yale and Harvard in the academic department is ascertained to be precisely one year less, while the average of those graduating from the
German gymnasium, is nineteen and a half, and that of students in
German universities is but little greater than that of our own. It should
be stated, however, that the diversity of age, in American institutions
is much greater than in German universities, and probably the extremes
are more widely apart in this University than in Yale and Harvard; a
difference necessarily growing out of the educational conditions of a
newly settled country. But how much we have still to attain in university education, is forced upon us by the fact, that German youth,




66


graduating from the gymnasium at the average age of nineteen and a
half, are more completely educated, at least in classical and literary
studies, than American university graduates at the age of twenty-two
or three.
EXPENSES OF OUR STUDENTS.
The history of the last three classes shows that students of this
department expend on the average during the four years of their residence here, about $1,400-or three hundred and fifty dollars a year.
The published statistics of the last graduating class at Yale, consisting
of 113 members, shows an average expenditure for each student during
his four years residence at that institution of $3,787-or $946 a year.
One cause of this great difference in favor of the student here, is
the absence of tuition, another, the comparative cheapness of living. It
is probable, too, that we have in this university a larger proportion of
that class of young men who are " working their way " through their
academic course, supporting themselves on the most limited income,
and thus diminishing the average outlay of the classes to which they
belong. There have been instances of these self-denying and most deserving students passing through the whole four years' course of this
department, at an expense of $600, and prior to the late war, even
for a smaller sum. The expenses here mentioned include clothing.
THE BENEFICENT CHARACTER OF THE UNIVERSITY.
This statement demonstrates that the University of Michigan,
while it has no trust funds, like many more favored institutions, for the
aid of indigent students, is accomplishing the object of such funds, perhaps even more effectively, by making it possible for an unlimited
number of enterprising and self-dependent young men, to pass
through the collegiate course at an exceedingly moderate expense. 'In
fact, under the present constitution of the University, its whole endowment received from the General Government, and whatever aid it may
derive from the State, are free contributions toward the higher education of youth. And the wisdom of this public beneficence has already
been justified by results. Many of our alumni, after struggling successfully through their collegiate course, under the disadvantage of straitened means, are already doing good service to society in the various
professions and in useful employments. Besides those who are winning
success as ministers of the Gospel, lawyers and physicians, we can point
to many who are gaining eminence as teachers, journalists, civil and
mining engineers, and architects.
I trust that the solid merit of the University thus indicated, and its
just claim to the hearty sympathy, cooperation, and support of the




State and community, on the ground of the inestimable benefits it is
bestowing on the youth of our land, by the faithfulness, thoroughness,
and cheapness of its educational courses, may be speedily and fully recognized. I earnestly believe in cheap education. Some things have
been said, I cannot but think unwisely, about the necessity of making
liberal education costly, that its worth may be better appreciated. But
history is opposed to this view. At the present moment the institutions which have placed themselves immeasurably in advance of all
others, and to which the world resorts, are the cheapest. Inconsiderable
as is the expense of education at this University, it is still less at many
of the great universities of Germany.
It is gratifying to record that our graduating classes still keep
up the custom of placing valuable objects on the grounds, or in the
Museums of the University. Especially commendable is the example of
the class of'70, which has erected upon the campus an admirable statue
of Franklin. The class has' expended for various public objects during its course, the amount of $1,000. The class of '66 has also lately
presented to the museum an excellent copy of Murillo's Madonna.
RELIGION.
The religious character of the University has been, perhaps unintentionally, misrepresented. While the State University cannot be
identified with any one of the several denominations of Christians,
neither its founders nor its successive Boards of Regents, nor its Faculties, nor the people of the State, have ever intended that it should be
without Christian teaching, and a Christian character. As long as the
State of Michigan claims to belong to the great Christian community,
its University must insist on maintaining a place among Christian institutions.
It is to be regretted that for the want of a suitable chapel all members
of all the departments cannot be invited to attend, at least voluntarily, the
daily devotional services. Custom has made it incumbent on the Academic Department exclusively to sustain religious exercises, and exper
ience,has proved that the good order and harmonious working,
as well as the spiritual welfare of collegiate institutions, require that
this custom, at least in this department, should be sacredly observed.
Our chapel services during the last year has been greatly enlivened by
the introduction of choral music, which would add'still more to the interest of our worship, if it could be accompanied by a chapel organ,
such as the University ought to possess. The only form in which religious instruction is officially given by the University, is in the lectures
on the Evidences, forming a part of the course in Moral and Intellectual
Philosophy. But Christian sentiment and character have been greatly




68
promoted by the influence of the Young Mens' Christian Association,
and by the series of public discourses delivered by the Professor of
Moral and Intellectual Philosophy on Sunday afternoons before the
students of all departments; and which, for the want of a building on
the grounds of sufficient dimensions, have been delivered in one of the
churches of the city. All these means of Christian instruction, culture,
and improvement, have been in active exercise during the last year, and
I have reason to believe, never more fruitful in good results. As an exponent of the religious element among our students, I may state, that of
the whole number in the Academic Department during the year, one
hundred and forty-eight, or about one-third, are members of churches,
and that sixteen are looking forward to the ministry.
DISCIPLINE.
The kind of discipline and the degree of restraint to be exercised over
students belonging to the Academic Department, have long been the subject of earnest consideration on the part of the Faculties both of this and
the other collegiate institutions of our country. As the result of much
experience and reflection,]the tone of discipline in most of our universities, if I mistake not, has of late years, become more liberal, and better
adapted to the average age of the students, certainly more in accordance with the spirit of our times, and, I cannot but think, equally, or
even more beneficial in its effects on the habits and character of students
and graduates
The difficulties of discipline have been occasioned partly by the
existence of "dormitories," and the consequent necessity of inspection,
and of more or less confinement, with the disposition to resistance, which
naturally grows out of these relations; and partly by the very wide
difference in the age of undergraduates, and even of members of the
same classes, many of whom, especially in our own University, are full
grown men, while a large number are still in their minority.
From any disadvantage in this direction, growing out of the
cloister or dormitory system, this University was relieved many years
ago, by the discontinuance of that system, and the conversion.of the
dormitories into apartments for the museum and for class exercises. This
measure, which was one of necessity, we have never had occasion to
regret, in its bearing upon discipline. It is, indeed, possible that we
are prejudiced in favor of a system which our circumstances have
rendered inevitable, and that if our history and usages and present
condition, were like those of Yale and Harvard, we might see in the
college dormitory, benefits which would outweigh the disadvantages at
which I have hinted. Yet, it is the unanimous opinion, so far as I
know, of all who have had the opportunity of compariug the state of




69


things in these different institutions, that while this University is exempt from the evils that, all must agree, are inseparable from the dormitory system, our undergraduates do not lack in their habits and morals
any of the advantages which that system are supposed to confer. In
fact the comparison has resulted so much to our advantage, that I think
no friend of the University who has examined the question, would like
to see dormitories again erected on our grounds.
The students find homes during the college life, for the most part,
among the citizens of the town; though many hire lodgings, and board
in clubs. Thus they hold relations to the citizens and to the University
something like those of German university students, with this advantage, that whereas German students are not usually domesticated with
the families of the citizens, but merely hire rooms in their dwellings,
the students of this University are quite generally received into the domestic circle, and are not deprived altogether of the kindly influences of
home.
Fortunately for us our dormitory system was abolished when our
numbers were so small, that no embarrassment was experienced in securing the necessary accommodations in the city, and the supply has so
constantly increased with the growth of the University, that at present
no difficulty whatever is found in meeting the wants not only of the academic department, but of the whole body of students, amounting during
the last year to more than eleven hundred. The saving to the treasury
of hundreds of thousands, which in the course of time must havebeen
invested in sleeping apartments, had this system been continued,
thus vastly increasing the financial strength of the University in its
legitimate work, is an advantage which I need not dwell upon, and
which would be foreign to the present topic.
In regard to the other difficulty I have mentioned, that of adapting
one rule of discipline to a body of young men so widely different in
age, I would remark that the Faculty have endeavored to meet it by
maintaining the just mean between undue severity and culpable remissness. They have aimed to make the performance of all duties dependent as little as possible on compulsion, and as much as possible on the
good sense, manly sentiment, and earnestness of the student. And they
have had the happinesss to see themelves sustained in this course by
the hearty consent and cooperation of the great majority of the undergraduates. No equal number of young men, I think, could anywhere
be found, more pervaded with the feeling of individual responsibility,
and the desire to discharge faithfully every obligation. It is impossible,
indeed, that there should not be delinquencies, and, occasionally, gross
misdemeanors. In such cases it has been the aim of the Faculty never
to sacrifice the vital interests of discipline, and the well being of the




70


whole, to private and personal considerations; and yet, making allowance for the mistakes of youth, to exercise forbearance and indulgence,
so far as such a course may be consistent with our duty to the University and the State. On the whole, this somewhat troublesome question
has been treated by the Faculty according to the views of the most enlightened educators of our times. The students have been encouraged to
the cultivation of manhood, of gentlemanly conduct, and of friendly
and intimate relations with the Faculty, by courteous and liberal treatment on the part of the Professors, and by the absence of all that kind
of discipline which would make them regard themselves as boys, kept
under the eye of the task-master. The results of this liberal tone of
government, which has been gaining ground with us from year to year,
have been highly satisfactory.
THE FACULTY OF THE ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
Since the last report and the resignation of President Haven, some
changes have occurred in this Faculty. Rev. Benjamin F. Cocker, D. D.,
has been appointed to the chair of Moral and Mental Philosophy, and
I add with great pleasure, that the important course of study under
his charge, has been conducted in such a manner as to awaken an unusual degree of enthusiasm, and greatly to promote the intellectual
growth of the students pursuing it.
Mr. Stillman W. Robinson, C. E., who had served for several years
with great acceptance as Assistant Professor of Mining Engineering
and Geodesy, was called, at the end of the first semester, to the chair
of Mechanical Engineering in the Industrial University of Illinois.
His place has been satisfactorily filled for the remainder of the year by
Mr. J. B. Davis, C. E.
Mr. Albert H. Pattengill, A. B., was appointed, at the beginning of
the year, Assistant Professor of Greek and French.
CHEMICAL LABROATORY, OBSERVATORY, AND SCHOOL OF
ENGINEERING.
The School of Engineering, the Observatory, and the Chemical Laboratory, have been conducted with the same reptuable success as in
former years, and are constantly growing in importance and usefulness.
The reports of the Professors in charge have already made you acquainted with the detail of their management, and with their condition and
wants. Prof. Watson has been engaged in making zone observations
with the equatorial, and determining star places, preparatory to the formation of new tables of the moon; a work committed to him by Prof.
Pierce, Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey. The moon tables at




71
present in use, so important to the interests of navigation, are found to
contain errors of considerable magnitude, due in large degree to the uncertainty of meridian observations of the moon. The plan of the new
table is based on observations of occultations of stars by the dark limb
of the moon;-a method which secures all the accuracy desirable. The
unsolicited assignment of this important task to the observatory of this
University, is a very significant compliment. All the instruments are
in good order. A spectroscope specially adapted to astronomical observation is much needed.
The school of Civil Engineering, under the excellent management
of Prof. Wood, has been sending forth graduates from year to year, who
have won distinction in the lake survey, in railroad and bridge building, in hydraulic engineering, and in architecture; and their success is
the best evidence of the value of the department.
Similar valuable results have been attained in the working of
the Chemical Laboratory, which is now second to none in the country for the extent and perfection of its apparatus and equipments, the
number of its students, and its usefulness to the community. Prof.
Douglass has been ably seconded in the general direction by Prof. Prescott, who has given his attention especially to the development of the
Course of Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.
The number of students in Medicine during the year has been three
hundred and forty. Eighty-five at the Commencement received the
degree of Doctor of Medicine.
The chair of Surgery, left vacant at the close of the last year by the
resignation of Dr. Henry F. Lyster, was filled by the appointment of
Dr. Alpheus B. Crosby, who has brought to the Faculty a decided accession of strength and reputation.
The establishment of Hospital Clinics in this department is an important step in its advancement, and the report already presented by
the Faculty, makes it evident that the Hospital will add greatly to the
value of the Medical Course. Experience will indicate improvements
in the management of this new branch of the department, and it is
hoped the number of patients will increase from year to year, until the
clinic shall meet the wants of the department in this direction, In the
Medical Library there are deficiences which I hope will be immediately
attended to by the proper committee.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
The Law Department has been attended during the year by three
hundred and nine students. It has graduated one hundred and twentyone.
2




72


No change has taken place in the Faculty, and I trust that its present members will long continue to constitute the corps of Professors in
this department, and to secure for it by their eminent abilities the high
reputation which it has always maintained.
The increase of the Law Library, and especially some improvement
in the arrangements by which this library may be rendered at once more
accessible and safe, are at the present moment so important that I would
suggest the propriety of referring the subject to a special committee.
The Law Library is emphatically its apparatus. It should always be
borne in mind, that while large expenditures are frequently and necessarily made for instruments and material appliances of every kind in
our various technological and medical courses, the Law Department
absolutely needs, and justly claims, a proportionate outlay for its indispensable and only apparatus of books. Nor should it be forgotten that
the limited number of the Law Faculty, renders this Department far
less expensive than the others in the matter of salaries.
THE UNIVERSITY.
From the foregoing statements it will be seen that the total number
of students in the University for the year has been eleven hundred and
twenty-six; and the total number of graduates three hundred and four,
besides those who have received a second degree in course.  The
number of Professors and Assistants, actually engaged in instruction,
has been twenty-nine. The evil of such a disproportion in numbers between officers of instruction and students, though very great, is nevertheless alleviated by the fact that so large a portion of the instruction
is conveyed in the form of lectures.
THE WORK OF THE FACULTIES.
Of the character of the instruction given by the three Faculties, and
of their devotion to the interests of those under their charge, I need not
speak. The uniform success of the classes passing from under their
hands, affords the best evidence of the thoroughness and enthusiasm of
the teachers.
But a University demands of its Professors not only that they should
give instruction, but that they should enlarge by their investigations
the field of human knowledge, and aid in the work of literary production. It is a matter of pride that in this high duty the Professors of this
University are not wanting. There have already been published by
members of our Faculties such works as Prof. Cooley's " Limitations of
Constitutional Law," and Prof. Watson's "Theoretical Astronomy."
During the last year Prof. Cocker has published an extensive treatise,
of the same high character, on Greek Philosophy and Christianity, and




73


Prof. Olney has issued the first of a series of volumes to cover the entire
field of Pure Mathematics. During the same period Prof. Winchell has
been in charge of the State Geological Survey, and is at work upon vol -
minbus reports, which will take their place among the productions
of his colleagues. Meantime he has published a book of a more
popular character, entitled " Sketches of Creation." Prof. Cooley has
also nearly through the press an edition of Blackstone's Commentaries. These various publications, added to those which have from time
to time gone forth from the University in the field of the classics and
belle lettres, indicate a most commendable degree of activity in this direction. I cannot but refer here also to the gratifying circumstance that
the Professor of Astronomy has just received from the French Institute
the award of the gold medal for the discovery of the largest number of
planets during the last ten years.
I trust that our Professors will never cease to labor with enthusiasm in the fields of scientific research and of literary production; that
high sphere of duty, which is the complement of the work of teaching
and on the successful performance of which, the reputation of the
University so largely depends.
THE THREE DEPARTMENTS AND THE ALUMNI.
The connection between the three departments has been rendered
more intimate during the last year by the celebration of University Day,
described in my former report, and also by the introduction of occasional lectures, and courses of lectures accessible alike to the members
of all departments. The regular meetings of the University Senate,
composed of the three Faculties, for the reading of scientific and literary papers, for discussion, and for the occasional transaction of business,
have had a similar tendency to promote unity and harmony.
A kindred object was aimed at in the resolution adopted by your
Honorable Board at the meeting in March, by which the Executive
Committee was authorized to invite the alumni, in accordance with the
practice of all the older institutions, to assemble and partake of the hospitalities of Alma Mater on the Commencement Day of the Academic
Department. The alumni of all the departments responded heartily to
the invitation. The number present was considerably larger than was
at first anticipated, and the enthusiasm awakened by the occasion, and
the renewed interest manifested by the graduates in the University, cannot fail in various ways to be of lasting benefit.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The general library has been redered more available by the completion of the card catalogue. It is gratifying to witness the great and




74


constant use made of the library by the students. Its value is greatly
enhanced by the large supply of leading periodicals and newspapers,
domestic and foreign, chiefly furnished by the public spirit of the students themselves. I regard the peculiar arrangement of this University of keeping open the library at all hours of the day and evening, as
a practice most salutary, not only to the education, but to the morals of
the students.
I doubt not that the Board realizes quite as much as the Faculties,
the importance of taking measures to make the general library as well
as those of the Law and Medical Departments, more adequate to the
wants of the TUniversity. I have been informed that there are extraordinary opportunities at present, both in England and Germany, of
which other American institutions are availing themselves, for the purchase of valuable collections of books. Can we not place funds at the
disposal of our Library Committee, which will enable them to secure some
of these collections for this institution?
THE MUSEUM.
The museum, though it has received some valuable donations during the year, has made no considerable new purchases. It should be
stated, however, that nearly six thousand dollars ($5,915) has been expended for large and very choice anatomical and geological collections,
several years ago deposited in the Museum, and left in our charge, until
we should obtain the means for their purchase. The objects presented
during the year and their donors will be mentioned in the reports of the
officers in charge of its several departments. I will only add that,
our collections, both in science and art, though large and instructive,
and hitherto challenging a comparison with most of those in our own
country, will soon fall behind their present reputation, unless more effort be made by us to equal the enterprise which is building up such
splendid museums at Harvard, Toronto, Cornell, Yale, and Middletown.
This would be prevented in some measure by the systematic annual
outlay of a small sum, appropriated to each of the collections.
THE GYMNASIUM.
A Gymnasium has been found beyond the reach of our present resources. The Senate earnestly concurred in the recommendation of
Prof. Tyler's report on this subject, but the estimated cost precluded its
erection at present.
THE GROUNDS.
The University Grounds have been well cared for, and, if we consider their great extent, and the necessarily limited amount devoted to




their embellishment, have undergone very marked improvement. For
the neatness of their present condition and the good taste of the improvements which have been made, we are indebted chiefly to the skillful
management of the Steward. And in regard to all the important duties of that officer, it is with great pleasure that I repeat the common
sentiment both of faculties and students, that they have been discharged
with a degree of faithfulness and ability which leaves nothing to be desired.
THE TREASURY.
The financial history of the year in its detail will be given in the
report of the Committee on Finance. You will be gratified to learn
that all necessary outlays have been made without embarrassing the
funds, or exceeding the income, and that the estimates for the ensuing
year, in some particulars, are materially diminished. A large sum is
saved to the University, in its current expenses, by the introduction of
the steam heating apparatus, and by the exercise, on the part of the
present Steward, of more prudence than has hitherto prevailed in the
purchase of fuel and other supplies.
The financial report will make it apparent that the timely aid extended by the State to its University, has saved it from sinking into
hopeless debt. Without this aid the institution could not have sustained itself even in the sate of development it had attained two years ago.
Professors could not have been retained on the grounds, buildings could
not have been kept in repair. But it shows also that, even with this
aid, and without more ample means, the University must remain stationary. Itias not a dollar with which to commence the erection of
the buildings, sorely needed for the largely increasing numbers of the
Academic Department, and for our admirable school of engineeringMeantime we see hundreds of thousands bequeathed by will, or given
by living donors, to more favored institutions, for the erection of museums, gymnasiums, dormitories, and memorial halls; or for the endowment of professorships or scholarships. A fund of about $250,000 has
lately been deeded to the British Commissioners of Education, by a
munificent citizen of Manchester,* the income of which is to be expended in scholarships for excellence in science and art. This example
shows that men can be moved to give large donations for educational
purposes, to a government, as well as to denominational institutions.


*Mr. Joseph Whitworth, Mechanical Engineer. See 16th Report of the
Science and Art Department of the Committee of Council on Education. The
University is indebted for this, and for other valuable documents, to Capt.
W. E. Price, M. P.




76


THE ADMISSION OF WOMEN TO THE UNIVERSITY.
The poverty of the University has begun to be more painfully apparent since the adoption of the resolution by which the institution has
been thrown open to women.
The question of the admission of women to the privileges of the
University has been for many years earnestly discussed both by the citizens and the Legislature of the State, and by the authorities of the University. It was reasonable that an innovation upon traditional customs,
seeming to involve grave consequences, and opposed to the prejudices
if not to the judgments of a large portion of college graduates and college educators, should not be made, until ample time had been given
for the forming of an intelligent public opinion, and until this opinion
had been distinctly and authoritatively expressed.
Your Honorable Board, believing that the will of the people on this
question had been at length clearly ascertained and correctly represented by the legislative body, and that thus the period for deciding it had
arrived, announced by resolution at your meeting in January of this
year, "that the Board of Regents recognize the right of every resident
of Michigan to the enjoyment of the privileges afforded by the University, and that no rule exists in any of the University statutes for the exclusion of any person from the University, who possesses the requsite
literary and moral qualifications;" a resolution which virtually declares
that all departments and courses of study in this institution, are to be
henceforth equally accessible to both sexes.
Many will think this a bold step, many will think it hazardous; but
no one who considers the relations of this University to the State and
community, will deny its entire justice. The generous system of education to which our State is committed, necessarily pledges to its daughters as well as to its sons, the highest as well as the niost elementary education, free of charge. We have already ceased to fear the dangers
which were apprehended from this action, and which constituted the
chief argument against it: the loss of reputation and caste among universities, the decline of scholarship, and the corruption of morals. But
the action is destined to give us anxiety in quite another direction. It
increases at once our perplexity, already great, in regard to buildings,
recitation rooms, and officers of instruction. We have already more
young men than we can well provide for. What shall we do with the
young qwomen now added to the number? The one building to which
most of the exercises of the Literary Department are confined, is already crowded to excess. Any one who should witness the difficulty
the large classes of this department find in moving along the narrow
" gang ways," and up and down the narrow stair cases of this building,




77


a movement which must take place at almost every hour of the day,
would hesitate to expose young ladies to all this embarrassment and
discomfort.
I need not say that they will be received by all members of the institution, both faculties and students, with the utmost courtesy and consideration; but every one must see, that they will labor under serious
disadvantages, and greatly increase the present embarrassments of the
institution, until more suitable and more adequate accommodations can be
provided; nor can the wisdom of this important measure be fairly
tested, until the new necessities which it creates are fully met.
The University has long needed more buildings, apartments, and
equipments, to meet existing wants. Your decision in favor of the admission of women, has made these wants still more immediate and imperative. You have believed it a duty to comply with the request of
the Legislature, urged upon you by repeated majorities in both houses,
and undoubtedly reflecting the will of the people. You can now in all
fairness ask the Legislature to furnish you with the buildings necessary
to make their request effectual, and to carry out their wishes.
CONCLUSION.
In conclusion, I beg leave to express my hearty acknowledgements
to the Honorable Board, and not less to the Faculties of the University,
for their uniform courtesy, active cooperation, support, and friendly
sympathy, without which, I am sure, it would have been impossible for
one so entirely inexperienced in the office of the presidency, to have
met even imperfectly its great responsibilities.
H. S. FRIEZE,
President, pro tern.
On motion of Regent Burt, the Report was ordered printed in the
minutes.
On motion of Regent Walker, four hundred extra copies of the
report were ordered printed for circulation,-by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook
and McGowan.
Regent Walker presented the followingResolved, That the care and management of the Law Library be referred to the Committee on the Law Department with instruction to report at the next meeting.
Agreed to.
On motion of Regent Walker, Regent Burt was requested to prepare the Annual Report of the Board to the State Superintendent of
Public Instruction.
Regent Walker presented the following



78
Resolved, That the account of Mr. Hobson, Taxidermist, be referred
to the Executive Commitiee and Prof. Winchell, with power to pay the
balance due out of the contingent fund.
Ordered as follows: Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker,
Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowanOn motion of Regent Gilbert, it wasResolved, That the Secretary of the Board be instructed to procure
proper vouchers for all appropriations made by the Board during the
year ending June 30, 1870, in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Board.
The Finance Committee recommended the following appropriations to be drawn, as neededRepairs............................ $500 00
Fuel and  Lights...................................  400 00
Contingent Expenses.......................... 1,000 00
Insurance..........................................  300 00
For the Gen. Library for the year ending June 30, '71. 1,500 00
For Medical Library, same time..................... 500 00
For Law Library................................. 400 00
Ordered by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, $114 80 was appropriated for Regents' expenses. Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert,
Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Walker it wasResolved, That hereafter A. H. Pattengill be Assistant Professor in
Greek, instead of Greek and French.
Regent Walker presented the followingResolved, That in case of emergency from the size of classes, the
Executive Committee be authorized to employ temporarily an additional
instructor at a rate not exceeding $1000 per annum.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the salary of the Secretary and
Steward, Mr. H.D. Bennett was'made $1400. Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Walker, it wasResolved, That the Steward and Chairman of the Finance Committee be authorized to contract for the erection of a new fence around
the grounds, to be paid from the State Aid Fund.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet the 3d of January, 1871,
at 7h P. M.
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




79


APPENDIX.
REPORT
Of Operations in the Museum of the University of Michigan in the Department of " Geology, Zoology and Botany," and the Department of
" Arceohlogy and Relics," for the year ending September 19th, 1870.
No large collections have been added to the Museum during the
past year. Two Alumni of the University, however, have honored
themselves by making noble contributions to her material for instruction. Mr. J. B. Steere, a graduate of the Literary and Law Departments, has made donations aggregating 412 specimens, of which 400
are chiefly insects and shells from Ionia county. Mr. Steere's name has
appeared regularly for some years past, as a contributor to the museum
and a collaborator of its materials. He sailed on the 17th inst. from New
York for Para in Brazil, intending to devote one or two years to the
collection of objects of Natural History in South America and the
South Pacific; and, if practicable, to journey around the world by way
of China, the Sandwich Islands and California. He goes with credentials from the Board of Regents and members of the Faculty, and it is
hoped our museum may be materially enriched by his labors.
The other Alumnus to whom reference was made is Dr. J. T. Scovell
of Central City, Colorado, who has donated 41 zoological and 350 botanical. specimens. A large proportion of both classes belong to species
not heretofore represented in our Museum. Dr. Scovell was reported
last year as the donor of 65 geological specimens from Colorado.
We are indebted to Mr. J. B. Harrington, through the offices of
Assistant M. W. Harrington his brother, for a good skin of a large specimen of the American Bison-something which is very rare even in
American museums.
A small collection has been purchased of Dr. G. W. Ramage, consisting of 335 specimens from the Gulf Coast of Texas and Louisiana.
It consists of 20 geological, 250 zoological, 58 botanical and 7 archaeological specimens.
Considerable additions have also been made through exchanges.
We are also again indebted to the Smithsonian Institution for a donation fromits store of duplicates, consisting of 152 species of British shells.
The material belonging to the various collections just mentioned
has been investigated, labeled, registered, and placed in the nml,^ ---




80


The Van Vechten collection, also, consisting of 1788 specimens, has
been similarly disposed of, as well as the numerous smaller collections
and isolated specimens; among which may be mentioned a collection of
Mastodon bones from the town of Clinton, Lenawee county, Michigan.
The Laboratory attached to this Department has been frequented
by students during the entire scholastic year. A portion of the regular
course in Zoology is prosecuted here by the direct study of specimens
from the museum, or from sets selectedlfrom the duplicates and arranged
for examination. Students pursuing select courses, as well as postgraduates, also resort here for the study of specimens, and the use of
the microscope. With enlarged facilities, this form of study could easily
be rendered much more efficient and attractive. It is my desire to place
the Laboratory on an improved basis, though this, like all other improvements, will require some additional expense.
Mr. Harrington's assistance in this Department has been as satisfactory as heretofore. It is a proposition which is self-evident to every
person who will take the trouble to inform himself, that the efficiency
of the museum as an educational agency, imperatively demands the increase of assistance of this kind rather than its reduction, which it is
the effect of recent action of the Board to cause. Consider the magnitude of the Museum and the vast range of the three great branches of
Natural Science covered by it and the Department which I represent.
Contrast then the working force provided here with that for very many
years deemed necessary in any of the great universities at the East,
andit becomes unpleasantly apparent that there is no feature of our Institution which compares less creditably than this, with the other great
institutions of the country. I should regret to appear influenced by
ambitious or selfish motives in directing attention again to these facts.
I hope I am actuated only by a feeling of loyalty to my Department and
to the University.
The number of visitors to the Museum, registered during the year
ending September 1st, is 6658, distributed as follows: September, 464;
October, 710; November, 318; December, 500; January, 485; February, 565; March, 782; April, 462; May, 441; June, 829; July, 380;
August, 722. The increase over last year is 1118.
I. DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY, ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY.
I. GEOLOGY.
All the contemplated alcove cases for the Hall of Paleontology
have been completed, and the specimenshave been mostly rearranged according to the ultimate plan.  Instead of the contemplated cases for
large specimens, I have felt compelled to construct three more cases of
drawers for the safe-keeping of duplicates and specimens awaiting in



81


vestigation. The large storage room in the fourth story of the Museum
building has been divided in such manner as to afford a storage room,
a draughtman's room, and a taxidermist's room.
A considerable number of the fossils illustrating Michigan geology
have been drawn during the past year at the expense of the Geological
Survey, and the figures are intended to be published in the Report of
the Survey. Such publication, while the use of the material is a favor
to the Survey, will greatly enhance the value of the specimens, both for
scientific and for educational purposes. The total ilumnber of figures
drawn is 382.
Additions to the Museum in Geology.
J. B. STEERE, Alumnus.
Specimens of Sandstone (Woodville) used in building, Lyons,
Ionia county.
Several specimens of sand-worn pebbles from Patmos Island (Fox
Is. Lake Michigan.)
CHARLES LYONS, Ann Arbor.
Quartz cryvtal containing disseminated mineral fibres, from northern Maine.
ORANGE RISDON, Ann Arbor.
Seven specimens of Minerals from the Geysers of Cal. Ore of
Mercury (Cinnabar) from the New Almaden Mine, Cal., 2500 feet beneath the surface. Ore of Zinc, from San Jacinto Mine, Cal. Ore of
Copper from Copperopolis, Cal. Coal from U. P. R. R., Green River,
Rocky Mts. Rocks and Soil from highest point of the Pacific R. R.,
8,236 feet high.
DR. G. W. RAMAGE, (By Purchase.)
Lithological specimens from Texas and Louisiana. 10 entries, 27
specimens.
J. C. JONES.
Samples of rock from the Hoosic Tunnel, 650 feet and 1400 feet
below the surface.
W. H. ScHocK, '70.
Limestone with numerous fossils from near Dixon, Ill.
C. M. OLDFIELD, Law Department.
Curiously water-worn limestone from Lake Huron, 12 miles off
Port Sanilac, brought up with a fishing-net in 25 fathoms of water.
M. W. HARRINGTON.
Specimens of Epsomite, Shale with Kalinite (?) and Satin Spar, from
the Gypsum mines near Grand Rapids, Mich.




82


Four varieties of Zinc Ore from the Zinc Works at Lasaille, Ill.
Mined at Mineral Pt., Wis. and Galena, Ill.
Specimens of Coal Measure Fossils from Lasalle, Ill.
A. NOBLE.
Brucite and Nematile in Ironstone concretions from Saugatuck,
Mich.
CLAYTON J. LAMB, Dryden, Neb.
Right upper Incisor of the gigantic, extinct Beaver (Castoroides
Ohioenses) from Almont, Lapeer Co., Mich. The first speciman recorded from Michigan. Measures 10 inches around the outer curve, and an
inch in diameter.
GREGORY AND PALMER, Jonesville, Mich.
Specimen of creamy-gray freestone (" Napoleon Sandstone ") from
their quarries on Jackson and Fort Wayne Railroad.
ERVIN PALMER, ESQ., Alumnus.
Fine specimens of fossil cup-coral (Zaphrentis) from Drift near
Grass Lake, Mich.
C. J. KINTNER, '70.
Diseased Crinoid developed into a geode, from near Falls of the Ohio,
Indiana.
C. OLDS, '70.
Coal-plant from Pennsylvania.
J. MONTGOMERY, Alumnus.
Fibrous Gypsum from Grand River, Paris, Ont.
Specimens of Spirifera mucronata, Widder, Ont.
Small specimen of Travertin.
REV. H. HERZER, Columbus, O. (By Exchange.)
Three Boxes of Fossils, containing as follows:
Corniferous Limestone.
Fish remains, 56 specimens.
Other fossils, 23  "
Waverly Series, about 40 specimens.
Mountain Limestone, about 10 specimens.
A large specimen of fossil Corniferous wood from the Huron Shale,
Ohio.
PRES. J. F. TARRANT, Columbus, Miss. (By Exchange.)
One box of Cretaceous Fossils-35 specimens.
J. EVEN, Morris, Ill. (By Exchange.)
One box of Coal Plants from concretions in Mazon Creek-22 species; 57 specimens.




83


BERNHARDT BOHMER, Berlin, Prussia. (By Purchase.)
Ninety-nine specimens of European Metamorphic and Eruptive
Rocks.
HON. D. MCINTYRE, Ann Arbor.
Specimen of Amber from California.
M. BAKER, '70.
Rare fossil from Corniferous Limestone.
CHARLES M. DAY, Bridgeport, Ct.
Spathic Iron Ore from Chalybs, Roxbury, Ct., worked by American
Silver Steel Co.
Puddled Iron from this ore.
Two specimens of Machine Steel from the same, bent cold.
Tool Steel from the same, hammered.
High Tool Steel from same, hammered.
High Tool Steel from same, tempered. Can be used as a diamond.
H. A. MARKHAM, Ann Arbor.
Geode of concretionary limonite from the Drift, Ann Arbor,
MR. --   VINTON, Chicago.
Core of Granite from inside of " diamond drill," Norfolk, Conn,
L. O. GODDARD, M. A.
Geode from Plymouth, Ill. Diameter 9/2 inches,
DR. E. HAUSE, Tecumseh. (For Expenses.)
Remains of Mastodon giganteus. Exhumed May, 1870, four miles
north of Tecumseh, from a depth of 23~ feet. They consist of part of
one tusk, (originally 10 feet long and 92 inches in diameter, at base);
articular half of right ramus of lower jaw, holding ultimate molar, 8 by
41 inches on the crown; two other molars, (two still remaining with
Dr. Hause); parts of femora, tibia, ribs, and vertebrae; astragalus and
various other fragments,
Specimens of the deposit in which the above remains were embeded.
W. OSTRANDER, London, Mich.
Bog Iron Ore from Sec. 28, T. 5, S. 7 E.
MR. --  CLARK, Chicago.
Samples of sand cemented by native. Asphaltum from a large deposit in Leelanaw Co., Mich.
C. N. Fox, San Francisco, Cal.
A fine and peculiar specimen of Travertin, found under water in
Owyhee county, Idaho.




84


UNKNOWN.
Specimen of recent grit from Saline, Mich.
II. ZOOLOGY.
In the zoological section of the museum, in addition to the work on
the Steere, Ramage, Scovell and other collections, as heretofore indicated, there have been selected and arranged for the use of students, sets
of Mammals, Insects, and Shells, forming series parallel with the set of
Birds heretofore in use. The Ornithological Series has been somewhat
extended and improved. All the series together embrace amout 500
species.
A great deal of labor has been bestowed by Mr. Harrington upon
the collection of Insects, in collecting, preserving and identifying specimens. The entire collection of Diurnal Lepidoptera has been through
the hands of Mr. S. H. Scudder, a well known skillful Entomologist of
the Boston Society of Natural History. The labeling of the Coleoptera
is in a fair state of progress.
Mrs. S. E. Becraft spent about a month in completing her engagement for the mounting of the common species of birds, for which purpose Mr. Harrington collected 125 specimens. She has also mounted
isolated specimens during the year. The other taxidermal work for the
year has been done by Messrs. Hobson and Webb of Detroit.
The store of duplicate birds' skins has been overhauled and catalogued and found to contain 300 specimens-mostly of common birds.
All the zoological specimens continue to demand constant watchfulness,
both to keep them from light and dust and from the depredations of insects.
ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN ZOOLOGY.
W. J. HERDMAN.
"6 Horned Toad," (Phrynosoma cornutznm) from Texas,
J. B. STEERE, Alumnus.
Four Turtles-Cistudo, Erys meleagris, Chrysemys narginata and
Nabnemys guttata, from Ionia county, Michigan.
One hundred Species of Insects, Ionia county.
One Weasel, (Putorius Noveboracensis) in summer dress, Ionia Co.
Sixty-four Species (375 specimens) of land and fresh-water Shells
from Ionia county.
G. T. Fox, Student.
Remora or Sucking Fish, (Echeneis) taken from the mouth of a
shark on the Georgian Banks, 200 miles off the Massachusetts coast.
Sword and eye-cases of the Sword Fish, (Xiphias gladius) from the
same locality.




85
Miss LILY A. WALKER, Detroit.
Water-mole, (Scalops aquaticus) from the vicinity of Detroit.
G. W. RAMAGE, M. D. (By Purchase.)
Sixty-eight Entries, (250 specimens) from the Gulf coast of Texas.
DEWITT C. CHALLIS, Student.
Two species of Unio from the St. Lawrence river, New York.
J. B. HARRINGTON. (For Expenses.)
Skin of a male specimen of the American Bison, (Bos Americanus)
from Colorado. This fine specimen is now mounted.
W. J. WATERS, '70.
Four Specimens of Ascacris,mystax, Rudolphi.
Head of Sturgeon (Acipenser Icevis) from Lake Erie. Weight of fish
63 pounds; length 74 inches.
W. W. STEVENSON.
One Mole Cricket, (Grillotalpa longipennis, Sc.)
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
One hundred and forty-two small species (about 300 specimens) of
British Shells, (Package " D. 16.")
HOYT R. WILDER.
Skeleton of Barn Swallow, (Ilirundo horreorum.)
H. G. NORTON, New York, (through Bernard Moses, '70.)
Fine specimen of Brain Coral (Meandrina) from island of Curacoa,
Specimen 18 inches in diameter and 7' inches high.
PROF. A. SAGER, M. D.
Specimen of singular work of a leaf-cutting insect from Wyoming
Territory.
IRA W. LA MUNYON, Chesaning.
Small lot of Shells from Shiawassee river at Chesaning, Mich.
J. T. SCOVELL, M. D., Alumnus, Central City, Col.
Eight Mammals and 33 Birds from the vicinity of Central City, Colorado. These were almost wholly new to the museum and have been
mounted.
UNKNOWN.
Flying Squirrel, (Pteromys volucella). Mounted.
F. A. BLACKBURN, Alumnus, Adrian, Mich.
Several interesting Insects.
J. A. MITCHELL, Ann Arbor.
One Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter Cooperi), Ann Arbor.




86


C. T. HARRIS, JR., Ann Arbor.
One Polystchiates punctceatus, Fabr. from Ann Arbor.
CAPT. B. A. STANNARD, Cleveland, O., (obtained by T. R. Chase,
Esq., Alumnus, Cleveland.)
Six Specimens of Lymncea megasoma, Say, from Drummond's Island
and the main land west of the island. The first discovery of this species in Michigan.
W. H. SCHOCK, '70.
One Moth, (Attacus Cecropia.)
IDA BELLE WINCHELL.
One Butterfly, (Papilio Thoas.)
A. WINCHELL.
Numerous specimens of the Colorado Potato Beetle (Doryphora
10-lineata) from Ann Arbor.
P. H. BuMPus, '70.
Numerous specimens of Potato Beetle from Minnesota.
PURCHASED.
Albino Raccoon (Procyon lotor) captured in Washtenaw county. This
beautiful and extraordinary specimen is now mounted.
N. H. WINCHELL.
Beetle of the Family Buprestidce from Central America.
PROF. H. S. CHEEVER, M. D.
Skin of Blue Heron (Ardea Ilerodias) Ann Arbor.
M. W. HARRINGTON.
One hundred and twenty-five Specimens of Birds from the vicinity
of Ann Arbor.
Two hundred Specimens of Insects from Ann Arbor.
III. BOTANY.
The 250 species of plants sent by Dr. Scovell from Colorado, a large
proportion of which were new to our Herbarium and undetermined, have
been investigated, labeled and arranged.
ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM IN BOTANY.
G. W. RAMAGE, M. D., Alumnus.
Seven Entries (58 specimens) from Texas and Louisiana.
J. W. JOHNSON, '70.
Seeds of the Nut Pine or Piflon (Pinus edulis) from Denver City,
Co!orado.




87
H. S. JEWETT, M. D., Assistant, Chem. Lab.
Specimens of the 12 principal Dyewoods from South America, Africa, etc.
J. M. BURBRIDGE.
Specimen of " Lignum Vite "
PROF. A. SAGER, M. D.
Receptacle and Nuts of Nelumbium luteurn. Supposed to be from
Monroe.
J. T. SCOVEL, M. D., Alumnus, Central City, Col.
Two hundred and fifty Species (350 specimens) of dried plants from
the vicinity of Central City, Colorado. About 150 species of these were
new to our Herbarium.
II. DEPARTMENT OF ARClHEOLOGY AND RELICS.
A desirable addition to this department may be secured by meeting
the overtures made by a gentleman of Oswego, N. Y. Dr. Milne, formerly U. S. Consul in Syria, an Alumnus of the University, is in possession of a large collection of ancient coins, some of which date back
to Alexander and Ptolemy Philadelphus, which he has consented to deposit in, or donate to, the University, on certain conditions. He offers
his services also in procuring from the Orient other coins and antiquities (as well as objects of Natural History.) Being in correspondence
with various officials in the East, and having extensive personal acquaintance with that region, I am convinced he would be able to serve the
University with acceptance. As this donation and these services have
been volunteered through me, I feel it my duty to communicate the facts.
Further particulars can be furnished when the Board of Regents think
best to take the subject into consideration.
ADDITIONS TO THIS DEPARTMENT.
J. B. STEERE, Alumnus.
Human remains and Ancient Pottery dug from Indian Mounds in
Mlontcalm county, Michigan.
Two Indian Sap-troughs (Bish-lco-tdy-zcti-ge-? nin-en) from Sault St.
Mary.
G. W. RAMAGE, M. D., Alumnus.
Two Entries (7 specimens) of Relics.
E. L. MARK, Student.
Relics from Niagara Falls.
CLAYTON J. LAMB, Dryden, Neb.
Ten Stone Implements-relics of the Indians. Fragments of Indian Pottery.




88


J. J. PARSHALL, Ann Arbor.
Flint arrow head from depth of 612 feet beneath peat, and within
an underlying bed of light clay, Sec. 22, Bridgewater, Washtenaw Co.
[The mastodon remains referred to in this Report were found in peat
only 21/ feet beneath the surface.]
PROF. F. A. BLACKBURN, Alumnus.
A piece of the Telegraphic Cable stretched by the " Confederates'
across Mobile Bay.
MESSRS. BLACKBURN, Milan, Mich.
Human Femur and Tibia from an Indian Burying Ground on the
River Raisin-the whole skeleton said to have been 7 feet long.
War-paint (Cinnabar?) found in the war-kettle just beneath the
skeleton
SUMMARY OF ADDITIONS DURING THE YEAR.
Entries.      Specimens.
Geological.............................  325        430
Zoological...............................  703      1549
Botanical...............................  272       425
Archaological..........................  24           34
Totals................... 1324           2438
ALEXANDER WINCHELL,
Professor of Geology, Zodlogy, anod Botany.




JANUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OP MICHIGAN,      1
ANN ARBOR, Jan. 3, 1871.
TETE Board of Regents assembled at 72 o'clock P. rm. Present,
Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
The meeting was opened by the reading of scriptures, and prayer.
Minutes of last meeting were approved.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution:
Resotlved, That Regent WTalker be instructed to prepare a memorial to the State Legislature, asking for an appropriation of sevPenty-five thousand dollars for a building to be erected on the University grounds, to supply the need for increased accommodation for lecture and recitation rooms, in the department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.
Adopted.
Acting President Frieze presented the resignation of J. Marius
Deloulle, B. A,, instructor in French, and also stated that Jules F.
Billard, 1I. A., had been engaged as instructor in French, at a salary
of S1.000 per annum.
On motion of Regent Walker, the resignation of Instructor Deloulme was accepted, and the engagement of Iustructor Billard approved.
Communications fiom Prof.. A. Winchell and Instructor MIark
W. Harrington were received, and, on motion of Regent Willard, referred to the Committee on Museum, with instructions to report at
some future meeting,
Regent[ Estabrook offered the following resolution, which was
unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the cordial thanks of the Board of Regents of the
Univerlsity of Michigan be rendered to Philo Parsons, Esq., of Detroit, for his munificent donation of the library of the late Professor
1au, of Heidelberg, Germany, to the general library of this institution, and that it be kelt distinct, and named the; Pctrsons Library."




88


The following resolution, presented by Regent Burt, was adopted:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be tendered to
the class of 1866 for the beautiful painting of the Immaculate Conception, recently presented by them to the University.
On motion of Regent Burt, the following appropriations were
made from the State Aid Fund:
For freight on collections by J. B. Steere, for museum...........$ 50 00
For expenses on mastodon remains, from Dr. E. House, for museum.......................................................................  46  00
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Dr. Francis Woodruff being present, asked leave to present his
views in reference to Homeopathy, and its connection with the University. On motion of Regent Willard, permission was granted. He
aso presented a memorial, which, on motion of Regent Willard, was
referred to the Committee on Medical Department.
The Finance Committee recommended the following appropriations, to be drawn as needed:
FROM STATE AID FUND.
For hospital deficit..................................$ 300 00
FROM GENERAL FUND.
For contingent expenses...............................................$ 1000 00
For alterations and  repairs.............................................  500  00
For fuel and  lights........................................................  600  00
For annual  catalogue:...............................................  1200  00
For  insurance...............................................................  500  00
For  postage.........................................................  200  00
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook. and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Willard, the Board went into executive session, after which the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That when this Board adjourns, it adjourn to meet on
Tuesday, Feb. 7th, 1871, at 7~ o'clock P. M.
Regent Burt moved that the sum of $151 be appropriated to pay
the Regents' expenses.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF.M3ICHIGAN,    }
February 7th, 1871. )
TanE Board of Regents assembled at 7.1 o'clock I. M., pursuant to
adjournment of January 3d, 1871.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey, Walker,
Willard, Gilbert, Burt, F:stabrook, and McGowan.
The meeting was opened by the reading of the Scriptures and
prayer.
Minutes of last meeting were approved.
Regent Wlker reported that he had prepared a memorial to the
State Legislature, in accordance with the instructions of the Board at
its last meeting, asking for an appropriation of $75,000, to be used for
the erection of a building upon the University grounds, to supply the
need for increased accommodation for lecture and recitation rooms, in
the Department of Science, Literature and the Arts, and that it had
been presented to the Legislature and had been referred to the proper
committee.
On motion, the report was accepted.
Regent Gilbert, from the Finance Committee, reported in favor
of making the following appropriations from the Geniaal Fund:
For Desks in Engineering Department................................ $79 19
' Apparatus in Department of Physics........................... 40 00
it  emporary instruction rendered in Engineering Department by C. M. Boss........................................... 25 00
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.




Regent Walker, chairman of the Special Committee on the selection of a President for the University, read the following report:
go the Regents qf the Unieversity of MiTchigan:
The undersigned. a Special Committee (in connection with Regents Sill and Johnson, no longer members of the Board,) upon the
subject of the election of a President of the University, respectfully
report that they have spent much time and labor both at home and
abroad in the performance of their duties, and have felt deeply the
responsibility imposed upon them. Nearly two years ago, immediately after our appointment, our attention was directed by Professor,
now Acting President, Frieze, to -Ion. J. B. Angell, President of the
University of Vermont. We visited him in Vermont, and he came
to Ann Arbor and was unanimously elected by the Board, President of
the University. He desired to accept the position, but found his engagement in Vermont to be such that he could not at that time with
propriety sunder his relations at the East. I-e therefore declined our
proposition. We have since been far from dilatory, in the search of
the proper person for the Presidency, but that search has revealed the
fact that there are few men well fitted for the position, and most of
those are already so permanently fixed in desirable positions, that no
inducements we can offer are sufficient to move them.
In the mean time, the University had continued to flourish even
more than ever, and Acting President Frieze had developed executive
abilities of a high order. In an administration of eighteen months, he
had satisfactorily performed every duty of the executive department, had
introduced many and striking improvements in the working of the University, had been successful in the government of the Institution, and
had won the respect and esteem of the students. In view of these.
facts, the Regents, at an informal meeting of all the Regents but one,
directed the chairman of this Committee to converse with Professor
Frieze, and intimate to him that he would probably be chosen President at the next meeting, if he would accept the position. Hle replied that he did not wish the permanent position of President of the
University, that he believed that President Angell could ultimately be
obtained, and he was willing to accept the Presidency only until such
time as President Angell could be procured, At the last meeting of
the Board, on an intimation that possibly even now circumstances
were such that President Angell might be procured, this Committee,
with the full approbation and consent of Acting President Frieze,
opened a correspondence with him, and they now have reason to believe




91
that, if elected with unanimity by the Boards,- he will at this time
accept the position before offered him and declined.
Wherefore your Committee recommend the election of James B.
Angell, LL. D., to the Presidency of the University, at a salary of
$4,500 per annum, and the expenses of removal to Ann Arbor, his
term of service to commence from August 1, 1871.
This Committee- cannot but express their views upon the good
management of the University during the interregnum. When we
might reasonably expect a cessation of growth, and even a retrocession, we have, on the contrary, during the two, years of Acting President Frieze's administration, made the most commendable progress as
a University, in all the departments-a growth not in numbers only,
but in reputation, esprit de corps, and facility and efficiency of instruction. While Professor Frieze has performed the duties of President,
he has also filled his own chair of instruction, to the great financial
saving of the funds of the institution. So that, in the opinion of the
Committee, he merits not only the gratitude and thanks of the Regents, the University, and all its friends, but also some more substantial remuneration for his services.
All which is respectfully submitted.
E. C. WALKER,
TIHOS. D. GILBERT,
GEORGE WILLARD.
On motion of Regent Estabrook, the report was accepted and
ordered printed in the minutes.
On motion of Regent Willard, the Board proceeded to a viva voce
vote for President, with the following result:
For. Hon. JAMES B. ANGELL, LL. D.: Ayes-Regents Sweezey,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That Hon. James B. Angell, LL. D., be declared elected
President of the University of Michigan, at a salary of $4,500 per
annum, and house rent, and that his expenses of removal from Vermont to Ann Arbor be paid by the University; his salary to begin
August 1st, 1871.
Adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Burt, the Board went into executive session, during which Regent Stockwell arrived and took his seat.




At the close of the executive session, Regent Stockwell requested
that he might be permitted to record his vote for President.
On motion of Regent Walker, permission was granted.
Regent Stockweli then voted for Hon. James B. Angell.
On motion of Regent Stockwell, the sum of $135.85 was appropriated for Regents' expenses, by vote, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwel, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
Burt, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
March 27th. 1871. X
The Board of Regents assembled in regular session at 7T o'clock
P. M., at the President's room.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey. Stockwell,
Walker, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook and McGowan.
The meeting was opened by the reading of the Scriptures and
prayer, by Regent Estabrook.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved.
After some remarks upon the question of homoeopathy, Regent
Walker presented and read the following
MEMORIAL TO THE LEGISLATURE.
To the Senate and House of Repirsentctives of the State of Michigan:
Your memorialists, the Regents of the University of Michigan, respectfully represent that they have given the question of medical instruction in the University their most earnest and thoughtful attention
for many years. It has been, and is still, the most troubleeome question
connected with the administration of the trust reposed in us by the
people. We have made several attempts to harmonize adverse views,
and provide for instruction in homoeopathic medicine, without the
destruction of our present Medical Department, which is justly the
pride of the State, but so far in vain.
After the passage of the act of 1867, we endeavored with the approbation of a large majority of the homoeopathic practitioners in the
State, to establish a homceopathic school at some other point than Ann
Arbor. But the Supreme Court, by an equally divided bench, held
practically that a school away from Ann Arbor was not in compliance
with the law of 1867. The acts of the Regents were approved by the
Legislature of 1869, who. repealed the so-called "Homceopathic proviso.
The question is again before your honorable body; and this board
is most anxious that this question should be settled forever. It is the
unanimous opinion of this board, after years of study,




94


1. That in the present state of medical feeling (for which the board
is in no way responsible) it is utterly impossible to combine the teaching of the two schools in one institution. Such is the system of county,
State and National medical associations, and such are the rigid rules of
medical colleges and societies, that medical professors connected with
such a mixed school would he ostraoised from all professional standing
in their respective schools, the diploma of the institution would be disregarded, and students would, of course, cease to attend an institution
where degrees would not open to them the door of the school of practice in which they believed and had been taught. The carrying out of
the bill which has just passed the House of Representatives would
overturn and destroy our present Medical Department, and overthrow
the work of twenty-fiveyears.
2. That all that can justly be asked, viz., equal advantages of instruction, can be accomplished as well, and perhaps better, by locating
q homceopathic school at some other city of the State than Ann Arbor.
By this course our present department, built up by so much unremunerated toil and labor, will be preserved intact.
Wherefore, your memorialists respectfully ask that a bill may be
passed permitting this board or some other board to locate and organize
a homceopathic school of medicine in some city of the State which they
may seleet, and grant for its endowment such sum as to your honorable body shall seem best, there being no funds in the hands of the
Regents applicable to that purpose, and the current expenses of the
University absorbing the whole income.
(Signed)             EDWARD C. WALKER,
HIRAM A. BURT,
JOSEPH ESTABROCK,,
THOS. D. GILBERT,
JONAS I. McGOWAN,
JAMES A. SWEEZEY,
CYRUS M. STOCKWELL.
Regent Walker presented to the Board, a memorial signed by
prominent homoeopathic physicians of Detroit, Port Huron and
Owosso, asking the Regents to give their support to the bill now pending before the Senate at Lansing.
On motion, the memorial was referred to the Committee on Medical Departnient.
On motion of Regent McGowan, Regent Estabrook was appointed:
a committee to present the memorial of the Regents to the Legislature.




95
Regent Gilbert moved that Professors Douglass and Ford be
added to this committee, which motion prevailed.
Aeting President Frieze read a paper from the Law Faculty of
the University in which they asked for an appropriation sufficient for
the purchase of the law library of the Hon. A. C. Baldwin, of
Pontiac.
The paper, on motion of Regent Burt, was referred to the Comr
mittee on the Law Department.
Regent Swoezey offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:
Resolved. That the degree of Bachelor of Laws be conferred upon
the following named gentlemen (117 in number), as recommended by
the Law Faculty:


ISAAC R. ANDREWS,
WILLIAM 0. AXFORD)
JUSTIN BADGERO,
JAMES B. BEALS,
ALLEN BLAKELEY,
MELVIN M. BOOTHMAN,
FERDINAND BOOKWALTEh,
JOHN R. BOND,
LEVANT F. BROWN,
GEORGE E. BULLOCK,
WALTER B. BUTT;
FRANK BUTTERWORtH,
FRANK W. BURNETt,
VICTOR C. BURNHAM,
FRANK C. BURTON; B. S.,
WILLIAM BYRNES,
GEORGE W. CASWELL,
HENRY A. CHANEY, A. B.,
EDSON E. CHAPMAN,
JOHN B. CLELAND,
EbWARD B. CLEMENTS,
PHILLIP M. COFFIN,
GUY W. COLE,
JEROME COLEMAN,
LEWIS COLLINS,
JAMES M. COLEMAN,
GEORGE W. COOMbER
EMIR J. COON,


ALVAH B. COOPER,
RYAN B. COWLES,
JOHN B. CREASEY,
WILLIAM V. B. CROSKEY
8ACOB R. DAVIES; A. B.,
NELSON DE LONG, JR.,
WARREN C. DEWEY, B. S.,
ANDREW J. DOVEL, JR.,
WILLIAM R. EDGAR, B. S.,
EDWARD EGBERT, A. B.,
EMERSON H. EGGLESTON,
JAMES B. ERWIN,
LOCKHART B. FARRAR, M. D.,
THADDEUS S. FANCHER, Att'y,
JAMES R. FLANDERS,
FRANCIS M. FORT,
MORGAN GIBNEY,
LucIus E. GOULD,
WILLIAM D. GOULD,
ALBERT R. GREENE, A. B.,
WILLIAM F. L1. HADLEY,
PATRICK C. HALEY, Att'y,
THOMAS W. HEATLEY,
ALBERT HIESTAND,
DANIEL B. HIBBARD, JR.,
ROBERT J. HILL,
LuCIUS P. HILLS,
GEORGE H. HOPKINS,




JOHN M. HOWARD, A. B.,
MICHAEL D. HOWARD,
GID. S. IVES,
ROBERT S. JARVIS,
GORDON J. KEENEY,
HUGH C. KELLERMAN,
HORACE KENDALL,
WILLIAM F. KENFIELD,
SARAH KILLGORE,
JAMES LAIRD,
ALONZO M. LEFFINGWELL,
CLAY H. LYNCH.
OLIVER P. MAHAN, M. D.,
JOHN S. MALTMAN, B. S.,
JAMES Y. MARSHALL,
THOMAS A. MARSHALL,
WILLIAM C. MAYBURY,
JAMES S. MCKAY,
SAMUEL R. MILLER,
MARTIN MORRIS,
IRA G. MOSHER, Att'y,
CHARLES W. MUNN, Att'y,
RICHARD S. NORVAL,
THEOPHILUS L. NORYAL,
JAMES S. NOTTINGHAM,
JAMES W. OGDEN,
WALTER H. PALMER,
HARVEY PASCO,
WILLARD H. PERLEY,
GUSTAYUS D. PIERCE,
ORLANDO W. POWERS,


96
JOSEPH D. RONAN,
ERWIN P. RAYMOND,
SETH B. ROWLAND,
JAMES F. SAULSBURY,
THEODORE L. SCHICK,
ISAAC C. SEELEY, B. 8.
JOHN W. SHEPHERD,
LUTHER SHORT, B. S.,
QUINCY A. SMITH,
HORACE G. SNOVER, A. B.
EDWIN SPENCER,
FREDERICK S. STAFF,
MORTIMER H. STANFORD,
SAMUEL T. STAPLETON,
VALENTINE W. STEELE,
MILTON S. STEWART,
THEODORE L. STIPP, Att'y,
FRANCIS STOFFLET,
JOHN T. STRINGER,
JOHN S. STULL,
CHARLES M. SWALLOW,
CLINTON K. THARP,
CHARLES S. THOMAS,
WILLIAM F. THOMAS,
SAMUEL VAN BLARCOM,
WILLIAM W. WARNER,
CASS WILLIAMS,
CHARLES H. WISNER,
CHARLES WOODWORTH, A. B.,
EDWARD T. WAITE, A. B.


On motion of Regent Stockwell, the Degree of Doctor of Medicine was ordered to be conferred on the 78 following named gentlemen,
as recommended by the Faculty of the Madical Department of the
University, they having complied with all the requirements of the institution:
A.DAM ADAMS;                 SMITH BAKER,
EDWIN K. ABBOTT,            CHAS. T. BENNETT,
ALBERT AMERMAN,              ROBERT H. BOYD,
ALEXANDER T. ARKLEY,         JAMES BUKEY,
RUFUS F. BARTON,             ROBERT B. CAREY,
WALLACE A. BRIGGo,           MALCOLM CAMPBELL,




97
ARCHIBALD B. CAMPBELL,    JOHN L. MILLS,
THOMAS J. CARPENTER,       CORNELIUS MILLS,
FREDERICK C. CHURCHILL,    MARSHALL R. MORDEN,
ROBERT W. CLARK,           OLILER H. MCMICHAEL,
JOSEPH H. COWELL,          LEWIS MENNIG,
ELIJAH CULVER,             CHAS. A. MORGAN,
ALBER L. DAVIS,            DUNCAN J. MCGEACHY,
C.YRUS G. DAVIS,           ADDISON NICHOLSON,
THOMAS J. DILLS,           DEVILLE J. NICHOLS,
FLAVIUS J. DOWNER,         SAMUEL M. POST,
WM. M. DOUGLASS,           JOHN E. ROCKWELL,
COLIN L. DOWNIE,           FRANK W. ROOT,
JAMES A. DUNCAN,           WM. RICHARDSON,
PERRY ENGLE,               RUSH J. SHANK,
EUGENE A. GOODWIN,         CHRISTIAN SIHLER,
THOMAS H. GRAY,            JOHN T. SULLIVAN,
JOHN D. GREENAMYER.        WM. F. SILVERWOOD,
HAMPTON E. HILL,           JARED SPOONER,
MARL E. HOBART,            MANLY H. SIMONS,
EDWARD C. HENRIQUES,       AMANDA SANFORD,
THEODORE L. HATCH,         ROBERT TURNER,
HARDY A. HARRIS,           JAMES TURNER,
ALEXANDER D. HAGADORN,     JOHN L. TUTTLE,
DAVIS W. HUNT,             DAVID B. TODD,
RICHARD M. JOHNSON,        HENRY D. UPJOHN,
BENJAMIN KINYON,           MARTIN F. VAN BUREN,
AUGUSTUS KAISER;           HARVEY WILLIAMS,
CHAS. S. LACY,             MARTIN L. WILLIAMS,
CHAS. H. LOVEWELL,         SAMUEL WHITEHALL,
ARTHUR' S. LOVETT,         FRANCIS H. WISEWELL,
EMERY H. LEYMAN,           SAMUEL H. WELLINGS,
DANIEL H. MUIR,            MARSHALL WHINERY,
SANFORD S. MESSENGER,      JAMES A. WILSON;
Dr. Abram Sager, Dean, read the annual Report of tht medical
department, which, on motion of Regent Burt, was referred to the
Committee on Medical Department.
Acting President Frieze having stated that he had ascertained
from President Angell that he could be present at the Summer Commencement, and recommending that President Angell be inaugurated
on that occasion,
Regeit Walker offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That acting President Frieze be requested to invite Presi



98
dent Angel to be present at the next annual commencement in June,
and also request him to prepare for his inauguration at that time.
Adopted.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Board adjourned to 9 o'clock
A. M. to.morrow (Tuesday) morning.
THURSDAY MORNING, March 30, 1871.
Board re-assembled at 9 o'clock A. M.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey, Stockwellj
Gilbert. Burt, and McGowan.
Regent Burt offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the unexpended balance of the appropriation of $500
made June 27, 1870, to be expended under the direction of Prof. Ford,
for the purpose of procuring charts and specimens, as a means of illustration in the Medical Department, be returned to the Treasury; and
that an appropriation of $150 be made for the purchase of microscopes,
and that this amount be expended under the direction of Prof. Ford.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Gilbert, Burt, and McGowan.
The following resolution was offered by Regent Gilbert:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to call a
special meeting of the Board, whenever they may see fit, for the purpose of considering the various plans for the new building, that may be
submitted to the Board at that meeting.
Agreed to.
On motion of Regent Burt, the matter of placing lightning conductors upon the University Buildings was referred to the Finance
Committee, together with Dr. Douglass.
Regent Burt offered the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be requested to examline
and report, at the next meeting of this Board, the repairs necessary to
be made upon the President's house, and also report the most practicable method of heating the same.




99
The following appropriations were made, on motion of Regent
Gilbert:
For Insurance............................................. $200 00
" Grounds..............................................  200  00
" Regents' Expenses.....................................   95 60
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Gilbert, Burt, and McGowan.
Regent Stockwell stated that the report of the Demonstrator of
the Medical Department had been received, and found correct; and
moved that it be accepted and placed on file.
Agreed to.
On motion of Regent McGowan, the Board adjourned, subject to
the call of ihe Executive Committee.
H. D. BENNETT, Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,            }
ANN ARBOR, April 14th, 1871. 
The'Board met, pursuant to the call of the Executive Committee,
at the office of the President, at 71 o'clock P. M.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey, Stockwell,
Walker, Willard, and Gilbert.
The reading of the minutes of the last meeting, on motion of Regent Gilbert, was dispensed with.
Acting President Frieze, chairman of the Executive Committee,
reported that the sum of $1,500 would probably be needed to make
such changes and alterations as were necessary in the President's
house, including hot-air furnace.
Regent Gilbert offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of $1,500 be appropriated and used for the
purpose of making the necessary alterations and repairs in the President's house, the same to be paid from the State aid fund.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, and Gilbert.
The several architects present, who had presented plans for the
new building, were invited to explain them to the Board.
Messrs. J. Y. and M. L. Smith, and G. W. Lloyd, of Detroit,
F. J. Scott, of Toledo, Messrs. Rose, Chapman & Mallory, and J. L.
Jennison, of Chicago, severally presented and fully explained their
plans, after which the Board, on motion of Regent Walker, went into
executive session.




101
After the executive session, on motion of Regent Stoekwell, Regents Gilbert, Walker and Willard were appointed a committee to
decide upon a plan, procure specifications, and estimates, for the contemplated new building.
On motion of Regent Willard, the sum of $59 was appropriated
to pay Regents' expenses, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, and Gilbert.
The following appropriations were recommended by the Finance
Committee:
For Thompson's Lithotrite, for Medical Department......... $ 30 90
Plates for Illustration in Classical Department...........  35 00
' Hospital Furniture, to be paid from State aid fund....... 200 00
Ordered, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard. and Gilbert.
H. D. BENNETT, Secretary.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 26, 1871.
THE Board of Regents assembled in regular session at the President's room at 8' o'clock P. M.
Present, Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and McGowan.
In the absence of Acting President Frieze, on motion of Regent
Walker, Regent McGowan was called to the chair.
Proceedings of the last meeting were approved.
Regent Willard presented the following resolutions:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents hold in high appreciation the
able and efficient manner in which Acting President Henry S. Frieze
has discharged the duties of' the chief executive officer of the University
for the past two years, and that the thanks ot the Board are hereby
tendered to him for these truly valuable services to the institution,
which, during his administration has enjoyed no common degree of
prosperity, and has constantly increased in usefulness.
Resolved, That the salary of Acting President Henry S. Frieze,
from and after the first day of August next, be fixed at $2500 per annum, and the rent of the house now occupied by him.
Pending the consideration of these resolutions, Acting President
Frieze, with Hon. James B. Angell, the Preident elect, came in, and
the resolutions, on motion of Regent Gilbert, were temporarily laid
on the table.
Regent Sweezey, chairman of the committee on the Law Department, submitted an informal report on the purchase of the law library
of Hon. A. C. Baldwin of Pontiac, and asked further time in which
to prepare a written report.  On motion of Regent Walker, further
time was granted.
A communication was received from the Medical faculty, recou:



104


mnending that the degree of DI)otor of Medicine be conferred upon the
following named gentlemen, they having complied with all the requiremet ts of the department:
SPENCER DILLS,                 RICHARD WOOLSEY ELLIS,
LUIGI G. DOANE,                ROBERT GEORGE REX.
On motion of Regent Gilbert the degree was ordered to be' conferred.
Regent Willard presented two petitions, one of fifty three members of the House of Representatives, and one of twelve members of
the State Senate, requesting that immnediate steps be taken to appoint one Professor of Holmeopathy in the University.
On motion of Regent Walker, the petition was ordered placed
on file.
Regent Walker presented a written proposition from several prominent citizens of Detroit in reference to the establishing of a Homoeopathic College in Detroit as a branch of the University on conditions
named, and offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That in response to the memorial of L. M. Mason, Chas.
Merrill, and other citizens of Detroit, proposing a sum of money or its
equivalent toward the erection and conduct of a Homceopathic Medical
School at Detroit connected with the University, this Board, when duly
authorized by law to establish such a School, will gladly receive such
gifts, and apply the same to the purposes mentioned: provided the
State furnish sufficient funds for properly conducting such an institution.
On motion of Regent Willard the resolution was laid on the
table.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution, which was
unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the Steward of the University be and he is hereby
authorized to receive, and in the name of the Board of Regents, give all
proper receipts for deeds, papers, or other things of value which may
be offered to him for the purpose, and in or by reference to which a
future absolute or conditional gift to the University, or for its benefit
may be contemplated; and also in such receipt to insert if requested,
the conditions upon which the said deeds, papers or other things are
deposited, and to stipulate for allowing the depositor access to the same
at all times, and the privilege to withdraw and make changes and substitutions as he may see fit: the general purpose of this resolution being
to enable the Steward to accept on behalf of the Regents, as they might
do if in session, any deposit contemplating a benefit to the University,




105


subject to such reservation of control over the same as the depositor
may stipulate for.
The account of Mortimer L. Smith of Detroit, for drawings for
the new University building, was presented by Regent Walker, and on
motion, laid on the table.
Professor De Volson Wood presented the report and vouchers -of
the Engineering Department which, on motion of Regent Gilbert, was
referred to the Steward for adjustment.
On motion of Regent Gilbert the sum of $50 was allowed J. Burkitt t' ebb, for assistance rendered in the Engineering Department, by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Willard the resolutions offered by him in
regard to Acting President Henry S. Frieze, were taken from the table
and passed by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Board adjourned to 84 o clock
to-morrow, Tuesday morning.
TUESDAY MORNING, June 27, 1871.
Board of Regents re-assembled at 9I o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and M,Gowan.
In the absence of Acting President Frieze, on motion of Regent
Gilbert, Regent Walker was called to the chair.
Professor S. H. Douglass presented his annual report of the laboratory, and recommended an increase of salary for D)r. Preston B.
Rose.
Regent Gilbert moved, that so much of the report; as related to an
increase of salary of Dr. P. B. Rose be referred to the Cormmittee on
Medical )eparttment, and that portion of the report relating to the
receipts and disbursements, to the Committee on Finance.
Agreed to.
In view of an anticipated vacancy in the chair of Surgery, Regent
Gilbert offered the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to fill any
vacancy that may occur in the Medical Faculty.




106


Regent Gilbert, cl airman of the Committee to procure plans for
the new University Hlall, and to contract for its erection, presented a
report, whieh was accepted and placed on file.
Regent Sweezey offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the action of the Building Committee in the selection of the plan tor the University Hall, and the letting of contracts for
the erection of the same, be approved by the Board.
Adopted.
Regent McGowan, of the Committee on 1Law Department, presented a written report in reference to the purchase of the Law Library
of the Hon. A. C. Baldwin, of Pontiac, which. on motion of Regent
Gilbert, was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Cn motion of Regent Sweezey, the chairman of the Executive
Committee was requested to invite Mr. Baldwin to meet the Board at
its next session.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the bill of Mortimer L. Smith was
taken from the table, and referred to the Finance Committee, with instructions to report at the next meeting.
Pr)f. H. S. Cheever, of the 'iedical Department, asked for the
following appropriations:
For one Constant Galvanic Battery...............$40 00
"    Induction  Machine......................  20  00
"  Necessary  apparatus.........................  20  00
Referred to the Committee on Medical Department.
Regent Willard offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That when this Board adjourn, it adjourn to meet on
Tuesday evening, the 11th of July next, at 7 o'clock p. M.
Adopted.
On recommendation of the Finance Commtittee, the following appropriations were made, to be drawn as needed:
For Fuel and Lights..........................$2500 00
"  Contingent................................  1000  00
Use of M. E. Church year ending June 30, '71, 300 00
"  Postage.................................  100  00
" Insurance...............................  108  61
"  R epairs...................................  500  00
"  Grounds.................................  200  00
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and McGowan.




107
Acting President Frieze in the chair.
The following communication was received and read by the Presiident:
ANN ARBOR, June 27th, 1871.
Hon. Board of Regents:
We beg leave to recommend the following persons for the Degree
of Pharmaceutical Chemist:


ALBERT WILFRED ADAMS,
ALBERT SAMUEL AMERMAN,
OSCAR LOUIS BRADDOCK,
WINFIELD SCOTT CAREY,
CHARLES BEAL CRAMPTON,
HENRY AUGUSTUS FITCH,
OTIS CLAY FLICK,
GEORGE THEODORE GENTSCH,
JOHN BIGGS GRAHAM,
OTIS COE JOHNSON,
MARTIN CROCKER KELLY,
Very respectfully,


SOLON FRED MASSEY,
MORRIS ASHBEL MINER,
ASHER FRANK MERRELL,
SAMUEL SPENCER MOORE,
JEHU POWELL,
DANIEL ASHLEY PHILLIPS,
MILTON D. STILES,
AMELIA UPJOHN,
MARY UPJOHN,
WILLIAM MAYNARD WILSON.


SILAS H. DOUGLASS, Prof. Ohem.
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT, Prof. Pharm.
HENRY S. CHEEVER, Prof. Mat. Med.
On motion, the degree was ordered conferred.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Science, Literature, and the Arts, the following degrees,
on motion of Regent Willard, were ordered conferred:
MINING ENGINEER.
CURTIS CULROSS SMITH.
CIVIL ENGINEER.


ALBERT E. BALDWIN,
ALLEN PHILIP BOYER,
JAMES DEWEY BURR,
JOHN EISENMHNN,
JOHN A. FULTON,
JOSIAH L. LITTLEFIELD,
LYMAN MASON,


A. JEFFERSON PARSHALL,
BARON H. PENNINGTON,
ELLIOT D. PERRY,
ALEXANDER B. RAYMOND,
CURTIS C. SMITH,
SAMUEL W. WALKER
J. IBURKITT WEBB.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.


JOHN D. CHAMBERS,
JOHN P. CORNELL,


CHARLES A. RUST,
EDWARD B. SUMNER,




108


ADDISON J. EDGERTON,
SAMUEL S. GREEN,
BACHELOR OF
ELROY M'KENDREE AVERY,
THEODORE A. FELCH,
J. LATHROP GILLESPIE,
BACHELOR
EDWARD M. ADAMS,
JONATHAN E. BISSELL,
CHARLES CHANDLER,
CHARLES E. CONLEY,
JOHN F. EASTWOOD,
PEMBROOK R. FLITCRAFT,
GEORGE T. FOX,
HENRY M. GOODELL,
HENRY C. GRANGER,
ALEXANDER W. HAMILTON,
WALTER S. HARSHA,
PRESTON C. HUDSON,
RICHARD HUDSON, JR.,
EARLE J. KNIGHT,
CHARLES K. LATHAM,
MORTON W. LATSON,
EDWARD L. MARK,


CHARLES M. WILKINSON,
HARRY C. WILLCOX.
PHILOSOPHY.
CHARLES EUGENE GORTON,
HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
WILLIAM MERRILL.
OF ARTS.
JOSEPH A. MERCER,
WATSON B. MILLERD,
HENRY W. MONTROSE,
ARTHUR GRAY OTIS,
HORACE PHILLIPS,
RUFUS E. PHINNEY,
BENJAMIN T. K. PRESTON,
PERRY A. RANDALL,
FRANK REMICK,
BENJAMIN G. RICE,
WILLIAM F. M'K. RITTER,
G. WEBSTER SEAVEY,
JOHN W. SLEEPER,
JAMES A. S. WARDEN,
FLOYD B. WILSON,
CHARLES J. WILLETT,
ROBERT M. WRIGHT.


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
ALVAH BENNETT WOOD.
MASTER OF ARTS.


WILLIAM K. ANDERSON,
SETHMORSE BARBER,
WICKLIFFE BELVILLE,
MELVILLE MATTISON BIGELOW,
FRANCIS A. BLACKBURN,
WILLIAM A. CHANDLER,
ISAAC N. DEMMON,
CHARLES L, FRASER,
JOHN C. FREEMAN,
GEORGE C. FRY,


MARK W. HARRINGTON,
GEORGE S. HICKEY,
FRANCIS W. JONES, (post grad.)
JOHN CURTIS MAGILL,
JOHN E. M'KEIGHAN,
H. H. CLAY MILLER,
ALBERT IH. PAT TENGILL,
WALTER S. PERRY,
JACOB L. STEINMETZ, (ad eund.)
EDWARD L. WALTER.


The following resolution, offered by Regent Willard, was adopted:
Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation of Acting
President Frieze, the degree of LL. D. be conferred on Theophi



109
lus Capen Abbot, President of Michigan State Agricultural College.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation of Acting
President Frieze, the following appointments be made for the ensuing
year, with salaries of $1000 each:
FOR INSTRUCTOR IN GERMAN-Rev. R. S. Rosenthal.
FOR INSTRUCTOR IN FRENCH-P. R. B. De Pont.
FOR INSTRUCTOR IN MATHEMATICS-Wooster W. Beaman, A. B.
The resolution was adopted.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Finance Committee was authorized to take the required steps to raise money for the erection of the
new building.
The sum of $93 40, on motion of Regent Gilbert, was appropriated for Regents' expenses.
Adjourned.
H. D. BENNETT, SEC'Y.




JULY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 7
July 11th, 1871. I
The Board assembled at the office of the President, pursuant to
adjournment of June 27, 1871.
Present-Acting President Frieze, Regents Sweezey, Stockwell,
Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and Estabrook.
The meeting was opened by the reading of Scriptures and prayer
by the Acting President.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved.
Acting President Frieze announced that his annual report was
prepared, which, on motion of Regent Walker. was read by him, as
follows:
THE PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-In accordance with law, I present
to you the president's report for the academic year
ending June 30, 1871.
The year just now ended must be regarded as one
of great importance in its bearing upon the future of
the University. It is marked with events which greatly
encourage the friends of the institution, and give
them renewed confidence in its permanent prosperity. The State has strengthened our hands by the
grant of money for the erection of a much needed




112
building. The library has been largely increased by
the munificence of one of our citizens. All departments of the institution have been thrown open for
the first time to female students. Closer relations
have been established between the University and the
State High Schools; and thus with the State system
of education. And, finally, the long and painful
uncertainty relating to the presidency has been terminated by an appointment which affords the most
lively satisfaction both to the University itself and
to the public at large. Indeed, I can think of no
period in the history of the University more replete
with occasions for congratulation.
TIE LEGISLATIVE GRANT FOR A NEW BUILDING.
Early in the last session of the Legislature you
brought before that body the urgent want of enlarged:accommodations for our Academic Department. Your
petition for a grant of seventy-five thousand dollars
for the erection of a building suitable to meet these
present necessities, was favorably received.  The
~educational committees of both houses of the Legislature visited the University during the session, in-.spected the several departments, and especially the
present recitation and lecture rooms of the Academic
Department, saw our students assembled, or rather
packed together, in the law lecture room, the largest,apartment now existing on the ground, and on their
return to the capital, made full and eloquent statements to the Legislature of the wants and claims of
the Univerisity in this direction. Nothing has ever
occurred in our history more gratifying than the
friendly sentiments manifested in the ensuing discussions, the absence of prejudice, and the almost
unanimous vote in both houses, by which your petition was finally granted.




113


If it is reasonable to regard the Legislature as
representing the sentiment of the people, I think we
may now feel assured that the University has at
length reached that period which we have always
desired to see, when it should be recognized and accepted by the citizens of the state as a genuine state
institution, not only such by the organic laws, of the
state, but in the estimation of the people, and in their
cordial sympathy and support; a state institution
looking just as legitimately and confidently for all
needed help to the hand of the Legislature, as those
other institutions, educational and charitable, which
together with the University, not only promote the
internal happiness and prosperity of the State, but
give it an enviable reputation far beyond its own
borders.
The prompt measures taken by the Board under
this grant, have resulted in the adoption of a building plan, presented by Mr. E. S. Jenison, one of our
graduates in the department of engineering, which
promises at once to secure all the objects contemplated, and to add an attractive architectural feature to
the University grounds.
Already the work has progressed so successfully,
that the corner stone of the new structure, for which
the name of "University Hall" has been adopted,
was laid as the appropriate closing exercise of commencement day, and of the year.
THE ADMISSION OF WOMEN.
By virtue of the resolution of the Board, opening
the University to women, one young lady was admitted to the Academic Department at the close of the
first semester of the last year. At the beginning of
the present year women were received for the first




114


time into all the departments of the institution. The
whole number of female students registered is thirtyfour; two in the Law Department, eighteen in the
Medical Department, and fourteen in the Department
of Science, Literature and the Arts; the latter being
distributed as follows: three in the classical course,
five in the Latin- scientific, one in the scientific, two in
selected studies, and three in the course of pharmacy.
One has already graduated in law, one in medicine and two in pharmacy.
Those who have entered the Medical Department,
in accordance with the action of the Board prior to
the opening of the year, have formed a class by themselves, both in lectures and in the dissecting rooms.
In the other departments there has been no discrimination in any respect, and no special arrangements
have been found necessary. In ability and scholarship, as shown in class exercises, and examinations,
the young ladies have taken rank at once among the
best students.
Many inquiries have already been made as to the
working of this new movement. It is manifestly too
early as yet to speak of results. Certainly nothing
has occurred during the year to occasion any misgiving in regard to its ultimate success. No difficulty or
disadvantage has been met with. No one connected
with the University, so far as I have learned, not
even those members of the Faculties who were at first
opposed, or distrustful, any longer express any regret on account of the "innovation," or any apprehension in regard to its effect, either upon our internal condition or our reputation abroad.
But whatever may be its influence on our internal condition, its beneficial effect upon the relations
of the University to the State has become immedi



115


ately apparent. It has removed a ground of complaint against the University, constantly increasing,
and obviously just-and, therefore, shutting off more
and more from the institution the sympathy of a very
large number, if not even a majority of our citizens.
And there is no doubt that our friendly reception at
the Legislature was due in no small degree to this
wise and timely action of the Board in behalf of
women.
THE " PARSONS LIBRARY."
Until the beginning of the present year no considerable donation has ever been made to the University library.  Since that time, however, a very
large and valuable private library has been purchased and presented to the University by Philo Parsons, Esq., of Detroit. It consists of the entire collection of the late Professor Rau of Heidelberg, made
during his long service of fifty years as Professor of
Political Economy in Heidelberg University, and embracing all the most valuable literature contained in
the European languages on political science and kindred topics. The number of volumes in this collection is 4034, and of pamphlets more than two thousand. While this munificent gift is of great importance on account of the intrinsic worth of the collection, it is not less valuable as an example which
cannot fail to find imitators.
Many of the volumes, as is almost always the
case in libraries of this kind, are unbound, or require
rebinding before they can be placed on the shelves
and catalogued.  Mr. Parsons, I understand, has
already made arrangements for the binding necessary
to be done.
The Librarian has prepared a general description of this collection as a part of his report on the




116
General Library. It is undoubtedly as nearly perfect as a library can be made on the specialty which
it represents. And it was the well authenticated statement of this fact, which influenced the authorities at
Yale to send an order for the purchase of it before it
was known to have been secured for this University.
While, however, it possesses this specific character, it contains also a large number of works of inestimable value on other subjects. The most important
of these is the series of volumes issued by the Academy of Vienna, and those on the original sources for
the history of the house of Hapsburg; a work of
great importance in the study of European history.
The languages represented in the Parsons library
are German, French, English, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Latin, Greek, iollandish, Danish, Swedish,
Icelandic, Servian, Polish, Hungarian, Russian, and
the Slavic languages of the Lower Danube.
A perfect university library must contain, first,
all the standard literary productions, or classics, of
all polite languages, and, second, all works in all
languages necessary to the investigation and treatment of every special branch of science and learning.
The building up of such a library is of itself a great
work, not indeed to be perfected by one generation.
Nothing, however, can contribute so much to its consummation as the acquisition from time to time, as
opportunity may offer, of those complete topical
libraries, so often collected in these days by eminent
German and English savans, and not unfrequently
offered for sale after their decease. At the same time
it should be observed that a university library which
is known to be perfect even in one branch of knowledge, has gained much in the estimation of the literary public.




117


THE ACCESSION OF PRESIDENT ANGELL.
I cannot but think that the University has now
advanced so much in the confidence of the citizens of
the state, and so won upon their esteem, that it may
hope not only for donations to its library, but for
benefactions to relieve its many necessities in other
directions. And in this connection I must congratulate the Board, and all the officers of instruction, and
friends of the University, on the accession to the
presidency of one who is so eminently qualified to
take the lead in advancing the interests of the institution, elevating its character, and winning for it the
good will and good offices of the people.
I regard the election of President Angell in the
present state of our affairs as an event of great promise; and while I look back with a painful sense of
deficiency upon the long two years of my temporary
administration, I rejoice that its close is signalized
by the inauguration of what I confidently believe is
destined to be a new era in the progress of the University.
Though the new President does not legally enter
upon his duties until the first of August, it was
thought advisable that his inaugural address should
be delivered on the occasion of the annual commencement, June the 28th. The unusually large
attendance of prominent citizens of the state on the
exercises of this commencement, and the presence of
a large body of the alumni, afforded the opportunity
to President Angell of becoming acquainted with the
spirit of the people and the strength of the University,,
and the enthusiastic reception he has met with, will
give him encouragement and confidence in entering
upon his new and weighty responsibilities.




118


INTERNAL CONDITION.
The internal condition of the University in respect to the efficiency of instruction, the number of
students, and their successful work, and all things
essential to the well being of the institution, has been
highly satisfactory.
The number of officers of instruction in the several departments has been       thirty-three.    On  the
resignation of Professor Evans, and Professor Spence,
George S. Morris, M. A., was appointed to            the
chair of Modern Languages, and in the absence
of Professor D'Ooge, Elisha Jones, M. A., was appointed   Acting   Professor of Greek.       Charles D.
Lawton, M. A., C. E., was made Assistant Professor of Engineering, Mark W. Harrington, B. A.,
Instructor in Mathematics, Augustus Maasberg, Ph. D.,
Instructor in German, Jules Deloulme, and, on his
resignation, Jules F. Billard, M. A., Instructor in
French.
STUDENTS REGISTERED.
The whole number of students registered in all
the departments, at the time of the publication of the
annual catalogue, was 1110, as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE, LITERATURE, AND THE ARTS.
Resident Graduates............ 6  In Selected Studies............ 51
Seniors........................... 60  In  Higher Chemistry......... 13
Juniors............................ 91  In  Pharmacy...................  39
Sophomores..................   89
Freshmen.........................139  Total in Department...... 488
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Seniors............................121  I  Juniors..................... 186
Total in Department.                    -    307
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Students..........................................................................  315
Total in  the  University.............................   1110




119


INCREASE IN NUMBER.
There was in fact a large increase of numbers, as
compared with the previous year, but owing to a
change in the system of cataloguing, the full amount
of the increase does not appear in the actual summing up. Before the present year it had been the
custom of the Academic Department to enter on the
class lists the names of all students, whether present
or not, who had been promoted to advanced classes
after the annual examination of the previous year.
This usage, though just to the students themselves,
as indicating their class standing, has always been
unsatisfactory to the Faculty, as not giving an exact
statement of the number in attendance. The rule
now adopted, and to be followed hereafter, is to publish only the names of those actually present. This
has always been the practice of the other two departments.
The students in attendance during the year have
come from twenty-five states and territories, besides
the Dominion of Canada.
INCREASE OF STUDENTS FROM OUR OWN STATE.
Of the 1110 on the roll, 515 are from Michigan.
The proportion from our own state is increasing from
year to year, in consequence, I think, of the rapid
improvement of our local schools, and of the natural
tendency of pupils, under a graded system of education, to pass on from step to step until they reach the
highest. As the existence of a local high school in
any town or city will inevitably induce many to embrace its higher advantages, who would otherwise have
ended their studies with the grammar school, so the
existence of the state university, as the highest grade




120
of the state system, cannot fail to draw many to its
classes, who would otherwise have carried their education no farther than the high school. Their eyes
are directed by the very nature of the courses they
pursue, to the institution provided by the state as the
culminating point of all these studies.
GRADUATES.
The whole number of diplomas conferred during
the year, has been 302, as follows:
Doctors of Medicine........... 81  Mining Engineer...............  1
Bachelors of Laws.............. 117  Pharmaceutical Chemists..... 21
Bachelors of Arts.............34  Masters of Arts, in course..... 18
Bachelors of Philosophy...... 6  Master of Arts, on exam'n... 1
Bachelors of Science........... 8  Doctor of Laws, honorary... 1
Civil Engineers.................. 14
Total...............................................................  302
The honorary degree of LL. D. was conferred on
President Theophilus Capen Abbot of the State Agricultural College.
As in two instances one candidate has received
two diplomas, namely, one Civil Engineer the diploma of Mining Engineer, and one Doctor of Medicine,
the diploma in Pharmacy, the actual number of candidates on whom degrees have been conferred is only
three hundred.
One Master of Arts, it will be observed, has received his degree upon examination in post graduate
studies. It is much to be wished that this class of
students may increase in number.     The marked success in professional life of the few who have thus far
pursued the post graduate courses, should invite
more of the alumni to undertake it; especially those
who have taken the first degree at so early an age
that there is no occasion for haste in preparing for a
profession.




121


TIE TRIENNIAL FOR 1871.
The Triennial Catalogue for 1871, was published
in season for distribution to alumni and visitors on
commencement day. The object of the Triennial is
to keep in the hands of all members of the University,
whether officers or graduates, a permanent and authentic record of all persons who have held places in
the administration of its affairs, or in the instruction
of its departments, or who have received its regular
or honorary degrees. The Triennial has not been
regularly published hitherto. I hope that proper
measures will be taken to prevent any irregularity or
interruption in future. In the present edition a principal aim has been, to establish a form and style for
this document, to be followed in subsequent editions.
For a large part of the preparatory labor we are
indebted to Theodore R. Chase, Esq., of Cleveland,
Ohio, of the class of 1849, and Necrologist of the Society of the Alumni.
The synopsis of the Triennial Catalogue shows
that the whole number of regular graduates in the
several departments, from the first commencement in
1845 to the commencement of June 1871, inclusive, is
2900, and that, besides these, twelve persons have
received honorary, and four, post graduate degrees.
Thus the whole number of persons upon whom
degrees have been conferred by this University is 2916.
Of the 2900 classed as alumni, or regular graduates, 1030 have received the degree of Bachelor of
Laws, 969 the degree of Doctor of Medicine, 611 the
degree of Bachelor of Arts, 12 the degree of Bachelor
of Philosophy, 147 the degree of Bachelor of Science,
66 the degree of Civil Engineer, 13 the degree of Mining Engineer, and 52 the degree of Pharmaceutical




122


Chemist. But, as many of the alumni have taken
diplomas in more than one department, or course of
study, while their names can be catalogued under one
title only, the number of diplomas actually issued in
the several courses, with the exception of the classical, is somewhat greater than that given in the above
statement. Thus, the actual number of those who
have received the diploma of LL. B., is 1076; of M. D.,
993; of Ph. B., 13; of C. E., 75; of M. E., 18; and
of Phar. Chem., 69. And the whole number of regular degrees conferred by the University up to the
present time is 3002.
MAJORITY OF DEGREES BUT LATELY INTRODUCED.
It should be remembered that most of the courses
of study preliminary to the above degrees have been
but recently organized. The first Law class graduated in 1860, the first Civil Engineers the same year;
the first Mining Engineers in 1867, Pharmaceutical
Chemists in 1869, and Bachelors of Philosophy in
1870. These facts strikingly indicate the enterprise
and activity of the University, and its rapid and vigorous growth. And all the foregoing statistics, derived from the statements given in the Triennial, may
be regarded as a brief exhibit of the work of the institution during the twenty-nine years of its existence, and of the results to which it can point as the
evidence of its usefulness to the state and country.
FRUITS OF UNIVERSITY WORK.
Certainly it is no small thing to have sent forth
this multitude of trained and disciplined young men,
prepared to take an active and prominent part in the
affairs of life, and eager to gain reputation and
honor, in the new and rapidly multiplying popula



123


tions of the west. The development of the University
is exactly coincident with the development and progress of our own state, and of the west in general,
and its graduates have been yearly pouring forth
from its halls to aid in planting new towns and cities,
and to grow up and prosper with new communities.
I cannot but think it fortunate for the state, and I
might venture to say, even for communities beyond
the state, that the University began to do effective
work so early, as compared with other institutions of
this region, and that its growth, in spite of great
poverty, and not a few impediments besides, has so
perfectly kept pace with the wants of our western
society. In almost every locality of the west and
northwest we find its graduates, either in the midst of
life, settled and completely identified with the society
around them, or just entering life and preparing to
turn their acquirements to good account.
Among all those who represent us in the various
professions, and in industrial avocations, we seldom
hear of inefficiency or failure. Many of them have
been advanced to the highest places of trust and dignity in political affairs, and in the management of
collegiate institutions. Many are active in the Christian ministry. Some are taking a prominent part in
legislation. Others are energetic business men, and
manufacturers. Many are engaged in railroad surveying and building; others in mining operations,
and others still in the construction of machinery.
Finally, the business of teaching, which itself is rapidly becoming a profession, gives employment to a
large number of the foremost among our alumni, who
thus extend the educational influence of the University
to the schools and colleges of this and of neighboring
states.




124
No one who considers these facts and results can
doubt that the University is in living contact with the
world, and performing its part faithfully and efficiently in the work of social advancement.
GREAT WORK WITH LIMITED MEANS.
And all this work, this great work it can justly
be called, has been achieved amidst an unremitting
struggle with poverty. Hampered for the want of
means the Board has neither been able to employ an
adequate number of officers of instruction, nor to
afford even to these an adequate compensation.
We have either taught our students in sections of
fifty or sixty, where there should have been but
twenty or thirty, or we have multiplied the labor of
individual instructors. Of course we have not been
able to keep pace with the wants of the University or
the demands of the times, in the supply of apparatus,
or books, or buildings.
And now it is evident to every one acquainted
with our circumstances, that we have reached that
point, where we can neither advance any farther, nor
even hold the ground we have already conquered,
without greatly increased resources. Our prosperity
is henceforth simply and wholly a question of money.
Our present income barely meets the necessary outlay
on the present basis of officers and salaries. But no
one can be blind to the fact that competent professors
cannot be permanently retained on the salaries now
paid, and that if the present incumbents should retire, their places could not be well and properly filled
without advancing the compensation at least from
twenty-five to thirty per cent.
The University of Michigan has no right to employ an instructor of mature age whose services are of




125


so little value that he can be hired at two-thirds the
salary paid by Yale, one-half that of Harvard, and
one-third that of Columbia.
And not only must our present professors be secured by a more respectable compensation, but it will
also be found necessary, if we are to retain our place
among universities, to introduce new chairs, new
courses of study, and new schools for special studies.
The example of other institutions renders this important, the times demand it.
THE SOURCES OF AID.
It is in view of these circumstances that our straitened financial condition gives me, and all who like
myself have become by long years of service, almost,
or completely, identified in interests with the University, no little solicitude. How shall these great wants
be met? How shall our financial basis be enlarged?
Are we to look wholly to the State? The Legislature
has promptly responded to our recent application for
aid. It will undoubtedly be magnanimous in its
treatment of the University hereafter. But can we
fairly expect of the State alone that rapid accumulation of grants and endowments which will place us,
even within the next ten years, on an equal financial
footing with the wealthier universities and colleges of
the east.
The income of Harvard for the last year was more
than $300,000. The present income of this University
must be doubled to reach half that amount. However
generous the State may be, it can do all this for us
but gradually, and not until our present splendid
opportunities have passed away, and we shall have
fallen into the second rank of American universities.




126


THE HOPE OF PRIVATE MUNIFICENCE.
I need not say what it is that must supplement
the liberality of the State government. If the University is to be kept up to its present rank, it must
find somewhere in this community its Lawrences, and
Sheffields, its Thayers, McGraws, and Cornells. Columbia has her richly endowed School of Mines in
New York, the centre of commerce. Where is the
endowed School of Mines in Michigan, the centre of a
great mining interest? Yale and Harvard have their
richly endowed Scientific Schools. Where is such an
endowment, and such a school more needed, and
likely to do more good, than at the University of
Michigan, where scientific studies have from the first
been made so conspicuous and honorable?
At Harvard there are more endowed chairs, or
professorships, than there are professors in our entire Faculty; and many of those endowments were
established before Massachusetts had attained to anything like the present population and wealth of
Michigan.
Has not the University of Michigan also deserved
such gifts from private munificence? She points to
her 2900 graduates, nearly all raised up from the
ranks of laboring and self dependent young men,
and trained to honorable and useful callings, and she
asks whether wealth can be better invested, or secure
to the giver a more enviable or lasting name, than in
the endowment, either of schools, or single chairs of
instruction, which shall enable her to add yearly to
this goodly company.
THE MEDICAL AND LAW DEPARTMENTS.
The work of the Medical Department has been
conducted with the same degree of success as hereto



127
fore, and presents no new features requiring special
remark, excepting the organization of the separate
course of lectures for women, already referred to.
Detailed reports of the operations of the Department, and of the Hospital will be presented by the
Dean of the Medical Faculty.
The Law Department has encountered no difficulty in the admission of women to the courses of
lectures, already organized for men.  No separate
course is found necessary, or desirable. The enlargement of the law library, which is the pressing want of
this department, I trust will be brought about by the
negotiations now pending for the purchase of a large
and valuable private collection.
OBSERVATORY, CHEMICAL LABORATORY, &C.
The condition and work of the Observatory, the
Chemical Laboratory, the Department of Engineering,
and the General Library, will be reported by the several officers in charge.
THE ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
The number of applicants for admission to the
Department of Science, Literature, and the Arts,
during the year, was 222. The number matriculated
was 196, including the class in Pharmacy.  A large
number failed to enter from the want of sufficient
preparation. The candidates received from the High
Schools of Detroit, Flint, Jackson, and Ann Arbor,
were exceedingly well prepared. The classes in these
and other schools of the State are gradually rising
in scholarship, and thus enabling the University
to take up the several courses of study, from a higher
grade of advancement. This progress will be still
more rapid as the relations of the University to the
schools become more intimate.




128


RELATIONS OF TIE UNIVERSITY TO THE PREPARATORY
HIGH SCHOOLS.
It will be remembered that in my former report, I
mentioned the desirableness of carrying into practice the theory of our educational system, by bringing the Faculty into some active connection with the
High Schools.  This could be done, as something
analogous is done in the English universities, by
sending members of the Faculty to examine preparatory classes, when requested by the school authorities to take this course.
During the year the Faculty has received requests
from the School Boards and Superintendents of several prominent schools to send visiting committees to
them annually for this purpose. The proposition
has been cheerfully complied with, and committees
have been delegated by the Faculty to visit the schools
of Adrian, Jackson, Flint, Ann Arbor, and Detroit.
The courses of study, methods of instruction, condition of the schools, and especially the scholarship of
preparatory classes, have been reported to the Faculty.  Schedules of questions, previously prepared
for the use of the visiting Professors, have been answered in writing by the school classes, and their
answers have been submitted to the Faculty. The
effect of this plan of annual examination, which, of
course, is to be matured and perfected by experience,
will be to stimulate the schools to a higher grade, and
bring them to a more perfect uniformity of preparation, and thus make it possible to elevate thes cholarship of the lower classes in the University. But
more than this, it creates at once a reciprocal interest
between the schools and the University, and also wins
for the University a livelier interest on the part of the




129
citizens whose schools are brought into such close
connection with the institution.
To cultivate these interests and make them tell
with all the power they are capable of exerting, on
the higher educational work of the State, will form
henceforth, I think, one of the most attractive duties
of the Presidency.
The principle of this movement is obvious: we
go back to the schools, and aid their instructors in
devising correct plans and laying solid foundations
of scholarship; instead of waiting until pupils present themselves at the University, prepared under
dissimilar, and, perhaps, erroneous systems, often
imperfectly prepared, and sometimes rejected for deficiencies, which could have been obviated by this previous interchange of views between the Faculty and
the preparatory teachers.
INCREASE OF REQUIREMENTS.
One of the objects kept constantly in view by the
Faculty is the advancement of the preparatory requirements, not only for the classical, but for every
other course of study now organized. The Mathematics necessary for admission to the Scientific course,
have been extended, and drawing has been added.
French has been introduced into the preparation for
the Latin-Scientific course, as a substitute for Greek,
and a definite amount of ancient and modern history
has been added to the requirements for all courses.
Every one who understands the working of schools,
will perceive that changes and additions in preparatory studies must be made with prudence, and with
due reference to the possibilities of the case.  As
soon as practicable, it seems to me important that
both French and German should be required as part




130


of the preparation for the Scientific course, and in
time also for all courses.
I should add that entrance examinations in the
ancient languages have been constantly increasing in
strictness up to the present time.
Unless the public spirit which rears in every city
and considerable village of this State, such splendid
structures for Union and High Schools, is destined to
stop short with the building itself, and not manifest
itself also in the character of the intellectual work
carried on within, these schools in all the principal
centres of population, will certainly rise to preparatory schools of the highest order.
Detroit in time will have her Collegiate School
or Gymnasium, and that can only be her present
High School, raised to a character and rank worthy
of a great, intelligent, and enterprising city. The
same must be true of Grand Rapids, of Jackson, and
Adrian, and other thriving cities of the State. And
it is in these schools that the more elementary work
now performed in the University, will be completed.
Students will then come to us well nigh, or quite prepared to make practical use of foreign languages,
and to become classical and scientific scholars in the
highest and best sense of the terms.
WORK OF THE FACULTY.
Though the Faculty has been somewhat embarrassed by the numbers under their charge, the duties
of instruction have been conducted in general with
unusual success. Especially praiseworthy in all respects are the younger officers of instruction. Without exception they have been punctual in the performance of every duty, scrupulous in preparing for
the recitation room, faithful and efficient in teaching,




131


and in every instance they have proved the excellence of their work, by the results brought out in the
class examinations. As it is too often the lot of the
younger class of college officers to perform the maximum of labor, and to be rewarded with the minimum
of pay and popularity, I take great pleasure in bearing my sincere testimony to the great value of their
services.
Professor Watson obtained leave of absence for
two months during the winter to visit Europe. Having received an invitation to join the scientific corps
appointed by the bureau of the United States Coast
Survey to observe the last total eclipse of the sun in
the south of Europe, he made such arrangements
with the Faculty as enabled him to be absent without
detriment to the students under his charge. He was
successful in obtaining exact views and descriptions
of the phenomena of this eclipse, which will be of
great value to science, and which, in fact, have already
been made the basis of interesting articles in English
scientific periodicals.
It also affords me much gratification to say, that
several members of the Faculty, who have been
tempted by advantageous offers to accept positions in
other schools of learning, or to engage in far more
lucrative employments, have preferred to retain their
connection with this institution.
The plan recommended in the last report, of subdividing the professorships as little as possible, and
of supplementing the work of Professors with that of
competent instructors, placed under their direction,
has already been carried into effect in the department
of modern languages, and partially in mathematics
and engineering. Professor Morris has conducted
the studies in modern languages wholly upon this




132
plan, and Professor Olney proposes hereafter to pursue a similar course in mathematics. Under this system the professor, in addition to his own regular class
work, frequently visits, examines, and teaches in person, the classes or sections under his subordinates,
and thus:secures to the course of study under his
charge, unity of method, systematic advancement,
and, consequently, more perfect scholarship.
The division of classes into small sections, and
the opportunity it affords of giving almost personal
instruction adapted to individual students, is particularly important in languages and mathematics,
because the mental discipline, development and culture of those who resort to the academic department,
depend so largely upon the training received in these
branches of study. On this account they will always
require more officers of instruction than the other
courses pursued in this department.
And now, gentlemen, in transferring to other, and
far abler hands, the duties and cares of the presidency, which two years ago, most unexpectedly to.
myself, you placed in my charge, which I accepted
with diffidence, not at all diminished by subsequent
experience, I cannot but express the profound gratitude to God, which, I am sure, moves all our hearts
alike, for that good providence which has carried this
institution, so dear to us all, with undiminished, if
not increased prosperity, through a long and painful
period of transition, and which enables us' this day
to look forward with great hope and confidence to an
uninterrupted career of success in the future.
HENRY S. FRIEZE,
President pro. tern.




133
Regent Willard offered the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the report of Acting President Frieze be printed in
the minutes, and that five hundred copies, in pamphlet form, be struck
off for distribution.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Walker, Regent Steckwell was appointed
to prepare the annual report of the Board.
Regent Gilbert, of the Finance Committee, made an informal report in reference to the purchase of the Law Library of the Hon A.
C. Baldwin, of Pontiac, and, on account of the stringent financial condition of the University, could not recommend its immediate purchase
by the Board, but hoped some means might be devised by which it
might ultimately be secured, and become a part of the Law Library of
the University.
The following resolution, offered by Regent Willard, was adopted:
Resolved, That a Committee consisting of Regents Walker, Sweezey,
and McGowan, and of the members of the Law Faculty of the University, be and are hereby appointed to devise ways and means for the
purchase of the large and complete Law Library offered for sale to the
University by the Hon. A. C. Baldwin, of Pontiac.
On motion of Regent Walker, the resolution offered by him at
the last meeting of the Board, in reference to the establishing of a
"Homoeopathic College in Detroit, as a branch of the University,"
was taken from the table. Dr. Ellis, of Detroit, being present, was
permitted to address the Board. After a somewhat lengthy and spirited discussion of the resolution by Regent Willard and others, Regent
Stockwell moved that the resolution be laid upon the table until some
later hour of the present session, which motion prevailed.
Regent Gilbert offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the President and Secretary of the Board be and
hereby are authorized to draw the necessary warrants on the Treasurer
of the University to meet the monthly estimates of the architect for the
construction of the new building, and that the Treasurer of the University be and is hereby instructed to place his official acceptance on them,
and negotiate them at the Second National Bank in Detroit, in conformity with a proposition herewith filed; and that the Treasurer of
the University be and hereby is instructed to draw his warrants on the




134
State Treasurer against the Building Fund Tax for 1871, for an amount
equal to the sums so negotiated, and leave them with the said bank as
collateral security for the money from time to time advanced on said
warrants.
Adopted.
The following resolution was offered by Regent Gilbert:
Resolved, That the sum of $800 be allowed Mortimer L. Smith, for
drawings made, by direction of the Building Committee, for the new
University Hall-said amount to be paid from the building fund.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Walker, the sum of $10 was appropriated
for the publications of the "Central College Association," for the use
of the General Library, by vote as follows:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
Estabrook.
The following communication was read by the President:
DARTMOUTH MEDICAL COLLEGE, 
HANOVER, N. H., July 3d, 1871.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,-I herewith respectfully tender my resignation, as
Professor of Surgery in the University of Michigan.
Deeply grateful for the honors received from the University, and
with the warmest wishes for its continued prosperity,
I have the honor to be
Your obedient servant,
A. B. CROSBY.
On motion of Regent Walker, the resignation of Dr. Crosby was
accepted.
The following communication was received from the Dean of the
Medical Faculty:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
DEPARTME T OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
July 10th, 1871.,To the Hon. Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN,-At a meeting of the Faculty of the Medical Department the following resolution was unanimously adopted:




135


Resolved, That this Faculty advise the Hon. Board of Regents to
appoint Mr. T. A. McGraw, of Detroit, to the Chair of Surgery, on the
following conditions, viz.: That he be at his post at the University four
days in each week, during the lecture term; that he be not connected
with any other school in the State holding its regular sessions, or any
portion of them, during the sessions of the Medical Department of the
University, or with any school within the State which admits to graduation students who have attended but a single previous course of lectures, and without an interval of at least six months prior to the final
course in said school.
Respectfully submitted,
A. SAGER, DEAN.
Regent Stockwell presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That Dr. Theodore A. McGraw, of Detroit, be appointed
Lecturer on Surgery, for the term of one year, on the conditions named
in the communication just presented by the Dean of the Medical Faculty, with the usual salary.
Adopted.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Estabrook:
Resolved, That the Steward be instructed to procure such additional
cases as may be necessary, for the recent additions of books to the General Library.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Steward was instructed to furnish an additional case for the protection of apparatus in the Laboratory.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
and Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Stockwell, the sum of $80 was appropriated
for the purchase of instruments for illustration in the Medical Department, to be expended by Prof. H. S. Cheever.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert, and
Estabrook.


Prof. A. B. Palmer being present, requested that an appropria



136
tion of $50 be made for the purpose of defraying the expense of printing a synopsis of his lectures, for the use of the Medical Class.
Referred to the Committee on Medical Department.
Regent Gilbert, of the Finance Committee, recommended that
the following appropriations be made, for current year:
For advertising the Law and Medical Departments.......... $300 00
" the Law   Library.......................................  400  00
"     " Medical Library.................................... 400 00
"     General Library...................................  1500  00
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, tVillard, Gilbert,
and Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Board went into executive session, after which the following resolution, presented by him at the last
meeting of the Board, was taken from the table:
Resolved, That in response to the memorial of L. M. Mason, Charles
Merrill, and other citizens of Detroit, proposing a sum of money, or its
equivalent, toward the erection and conduct of a Homceopathic Medical
School at Detroit, connected with the University, this Board, when
duly authorized by law to establish such a school, will gladly receive
such gifts, and apply the same to the purposes mentioned: provided
the State furnish sufficient funds for properly conducting such an institution.
On motion the resolution was put upon its passage, and lost by
the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Walker and Gilbert.
Nays-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Willard, Estabrook.
The following appropriations were recommended by Regent Gilbert, of the Finance Committee:
For  Hospital  deficit........................................ $373  27
"Accrued expenses of Clinical Department............... 113 58
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
and Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Sweezey, the following appropriations were
ordered:
For contingent expenses in Laboratory of Museum........... $100 00
2  Students' Microscopes.................................  100  00
" Lathe for use of Profs. Winchell and Wood.............. 125 00
Two  Assistants in  Museum..................................  500  00




137


Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
and Estabrook.
Regent Walker offered the following resolutions:
Resolved, That in view of the advancing years of Prof. George P.
Williams, and the necessity of some relief from his labors, Prof. George
B. Merriman be made Adjunct Professor of Physics, with a salary of
$2000, from October 1st, 1871.
Resolved, That the salaries of Professors Winchell, Wood, Watson,
Olney, Adams, Tyler, Cocker, Prescott, D'Ooge, and Morris be $2500,
from and after October 1st, 1871.
Resolved, That the salary of Acting Professor Elisha Jones be $2000
for the next year.
Resolved, That the Executive Committee have permission to employ
an instructor in Mathematics in place of Prof. Geo. B. Merriman, at a
salary of $1000.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
and Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Willard, the sum of $72 10 was appropriated for Regents' expenses, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Willard, Gilbert,
and Estabrook.
On motion of Regent Willard, the Board adjourned to Monday,
September 25th, 1871, at 7 P. M.
H. D. BENNETT, SEC'Y.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
Monday, Sept. 25th, 1871. 
The Board of Regents assembled at the office of the President at
7 o clock, r. ir.
Present-the President, Regents Sweezey, Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook and McGowan.
The meeting was opened by the reading of the Scriptures and
prayer by the President.
On motion of Regent Gilbert the reading of the minutes of the
last meeting was dispensed with.
Regent Estabrook announced that the Librarian had prepared a
report in reference to library matters, and moved that it be read, which
motion prevailed. During the reading of this report Regent Stockwell came in and took his seat.
On motion of Regent Walker, the report read by the Librarian
was referred to the Committee on the Library.
Prof. Winchell presented his annual report on the Museum, and
by request of the Board read such portions of it as referred to the
additions made during the year.
On motion of Regent Gilbert the report was referred to the Committee on the M useum.
REPORT
Of Operations in the Museumn of the University of Michigan in the Departnent of " Geology, Zoology and Botany," and the Department of
"Archeology and Relies," for the year ending September 19th, 1871.
In my Report of last year I stated that J. B. Steere, a graduate of
the Literary and Law Departments of the University, had sailed with
ciedentials from the University, for Para, in Brazil, with the view of
making collections in that Empire and other countries which he might
visit on his contemplated tour around the world. Nine boxes of specimnens have already been received from Brazil, and I have information




140
of the shipment of two additional boxes from the vicinity of Santarem,
in the valley of the Amazons. Mr. Steere's collections have, thus far,
been mostly of a zoological character; and I need not say that the specimens possess a high degree of interest, both in consequence of our
almost complete destitution of South American specimens, and the
striking character of Brazilian species and the unique features of that
faunal region of the earth's surface. Armadillos, ant-eaters, monkeys,
caymans, toucans, brilliant humming-birds are strange forms in a collection of North American animals; and, when properly mounted and
exhibited, will add real interest to the museum.
Mr. Steere has also collected geological specimens from the Amazonian formations, the origin of which has recently been earnestly
contested among geologists-Professor L. Agassiz maintaining that
the materials are the ddbris of glaciers, subsequently assorted by water,
while Orton, Hartt and others regard them as of marine origin and
Tertiary age. Our representative will probably contribute something
toward the settlement of the question.
Mr. Steere has also interested himself in the ethnological and
archaeological products of Brazil-having explored some extensive
mounds in the valley of the Amazons, and having collected specimens of various utensils of modern domestic use, and of various
articles of food.
The aggregates of specimens thus far received are as follows:


Mammals...........................         24 entries,
Birds................................      209 
Reptiles..............................        8     "
Fish............     l...........   1 "
Insects..................                   53     "
Cirripeds......1 
Shells...............................        66 
Zoo logical...................  362     "
Plants.........................     63     "
Geological..........................        18     "
Domestic........................     19     "
M iscellaneous.........................       3
Totals..................465         i


39 specimens.
369 
14 
1
108 
8
799 
1338 
263 
38 
27    "
7
1673 


An interesting collection of dried plants, from the north shore of
Lake Superior, deserves especial mention, as representing a region
new to our collections, and embracing, also, some rare species, and
one not before found in the United States.  The collection consists




141
of about 200 species and 500 specimens, and was presented, uninvestigated, by Mr. J. C. Jones, of the class of 1872.
Bills of lading have been received for a box of geological specimens donated and shipped by Mr. M. W. Harrington, from San Francisco, California, amounting to 87 entries, forming a comprehensive
-representation of the metalliferous rocks and ores of the Pacific slope.
The casual donations to the Museum have been greater than usual
during the past year. The enumeration which follows, names 69 different sources of acquisition and 87 lots of specimens, varying from a single
insect to a fossil tree-trunk or a large box full. Account has been taken
of all these, and, excepting the Steere collection, they have been investigated, registered, labeled, and placed in the Museum. In some instances, as in the Jones collection of undetermined dried plants, the
work of identification is considerable; and this is often enhanced by a
lamentable lack of the requisite books. This lack is such that it will
be impossible to determine the birds of the Steere collection without
sending them to Philadelphia or Boston. So great a poverty of books
in the department of Natural History is both a detrinlent to the University and to the efficiency and reputation of those who represent
science in the University.
Other labor has been performed upon the identification and arrangement of all the Diurnal Lepidoptera in the Museum, including those of
the Dr. Ames Donation.
Series of Insects, Mammals, and Ann Arbor Shells have also been
selected and prepared for the use of students in the Laboratory of this
Department; so that such students now find themselves supplied with
material for the study of all the common orders of animals.
Educationally, the Laboratory, which is but an appendage to the
Museum, serves to bring the student into contact with Nature, and supply him with that enthusiasm which only actual work with specimens
can inspire. Accordingly, the Laboratory is kept open for the use of
students, and a considerable number avail themselves of its advantages.
These will now be increased by the late purchase of two Students' Microscopes. Natural History is now pursued by numerous students taking select courses. Many students in the regular courses, also, exceed
the requirements in these studies.  The Laboratory furnished to the
last Senior Class, after the conclusion of the study of Lithological Geology, about 900 identifications of rock-specimens belonging to the
students.  This was in addition to probably a larger number of
identifications made for students in the class-room. The class of 1871
carried away from the University about 2000 correctly labeled specimens
of rocks, to serve as standards for further observations and studies.




142


These standards, especially to graduates in Civil Engineering and Mining, will be found to possess increasing interest and value.
Mr. M. W. Harrington, the efficient regular Assistant in this Department for the past three years, having attached himself to the Government Expedition to Alaska, it is my plan to secure in his place, two
or three energetic and aspiring youig men, who will count the educational advantages of the position a large part of the just compensation
for their services. Messrs. E. L. Mark, A. B., and J. F. Eastwood, A.B.,
have already entered upon duty under this arrangement.
Additions to the Museum in Geology.
A. WINCHELL.
One box of litlological specimens from the Lower Magnesian Limestone of the valley of the Minnesota river. 8 entries, 32 specimens.
Twelve specimens of quartzose geodes from the Warsaw limestone
of Iowa. By exchange with Prof. Mansfield:
Three specimens of Lithostrotion canadense from the St. Louis lime.
stone of Iowa. By exchange with Prof. Mansfield of Mt. Pleasant, Iowa.
Twelve fine specimens of specular, stalactitic, botryoidal and amorphous limonite from the Salisbury (Ct.) Iron mines.  By exchange
with Prof. E. Johnson, Lynn, Mass.
Coal from beneath the sandstone of Ionia Co.
Sample of dressed sandstone from Grand Ledge, Eaton Co.
Sample of grayish white sandstone from Lansing.
Gypsums and gypsiferous clays from Niagara, N. Y. By exchange
with R. N. Fearon (Alumnus). 4 entries, 19 specimens.
M. W. IHARRINGTON. (Asst.)
Spirigera subtilita and other fossils from the Coal Measures of La
Salle, Ill.
J. F. EASTWOOD ('71).
Fifty three specimens of uncommon rocks from Ann Arbor.
J. W. DETWILLER, (Med. Student).
Clays and ores of zinc and iron from eastern Pennsylvania. 20
entries, 40 specimens.
J. P. CORNELL, ('71).
Limestone concretion from Monroeville, Ohio.
PROF. C. L. FORD.
Two specimens of chalcedony from " Giants Causeway," Ireland.
S. H. SEARs, Hillsdale Co., Mich.
Specimen of Marshall Sandstone, Somerset.




143


M. W. LATSON, ('71).
Six uncommon lithological specimens from Ann Arbor.
S. S. GREEN, ('71).
Eight specimens of uncommon rocks from Ann Arbor.
PROF. B. F. COCKER.
Ferruginous concretions from the Oolite of England.
C. J. CLAYTON, Dryden, Neb.
Cretaceous fossils, iron pyrites, calcite, and silicified wood, from
Dryden, Neb. 4 entries, 10 specimens.
PROF. C. D. LAWTON.
Bituminous coal from Mt. Carbon, Jackson Co., Ill.
SAMUEL REES, Fort Dodge, Iowa.
Celestine from Fort Dodge.
PROF. G. B. MERRIMAN.
California marble, from Cal.
HOLLAND, FREAR & WILSON, Chicago.
Frear Artificial Stone.
WOODRUFF CHAPIN, Chatauqua Co., N. Y.
Specimens from near Silver Creek, Chatauqua Co., N. Y. 3 entries,
6 specimens.
E. L. MARK, ('71).
Four specimens of Catskill (Marshall?) Conglomerate from Rock,
City, Cattaraugus Co., N. Y.
P. H. CLEMENS, Marblehead, Ottawa Co., O.
Gomphoceras nobile (Win.) and Macropetatichthys Sullivcnti (Newb.)
from Corniferous limestone, Marblehead, O.
GREGORY & PALMER, Jonesville, Mich.
Dressed and ornamental specimen of cream colored sandstone from
" Marshall Group " at Stony Point Quarry, near Jonesville.
DAVID WILLIAMS.
" Cannon-ball Stones," (spherical metamorphic rocks) from Cannonball river, Dakota Ter.
G. B. LICHTENBERG, Detroit.
"Marble " from Sec. 6, T. 22 N. 1 E.
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF CANADA.
Sawed specimen of Eozoon canadense from the Laurentian System,
Grenville, Canada.
JOHN R. WILLIAMS, ('72).
Fine specimen of Travertin on moss, from the vicinity of Ann Arbor.




144


S. L. SMITH, (Student).
Several specimens of Sulphate of Iron, from Silver Creek, near
New Albany, Ind. Efflorescence from the " Black Slate."
J. T. SCOVEL, M. D., (Alumnus) Vermontville, Mich.
Fossil (endogenous) tree stump from Rocky Mts., 'Colorado.
J. B. STEERE, A. B., (Alumnus).
A box of geological specimens from Brazil, embracing 18 specimens
from Para,illustrating the character of the prevailing rocks on the lower
Amazon; 10 specimens from Soures, illustrating the colored clays, the
volcanic rocks and their associates; 10 specimens from Maranham,
illustrating volcanic rocks, sandstones and lost fragments. Total 18
entries, 38 specimens.
FRANK D. NEALE.
Two specimens of Pentamerus replaced by quartz from Northport,
Michigan.
S. S. HASTINGS, St. Louis, Mich.
A slab of limestone, exhibiting a planed and striated surface-part
of a mass uncovered to the extent of 10x12 feet, and supposed to have
an extent of 12x20 feet, imbedded in drift materials on the north bank
of Pine River, in Sec. 34, T. 13 N., R. 2 W., 30 feet above the water. [It
is the underside of this rock which is worn and striated; and the phenomena are not those of ordinary glacial action, since the substance of
the rock is raised behind the resistances, as if the work had been done by
moving sand.]
REV. S. R. COOK, Ann Arbor.
Argillaceous talcose schist having a fibrous appearance.
E. M. AVERY, '71.
Porphyritic diabase from Ann Arbor.
REV. E. BAUR, Ann Arbor.
Aluminous limestone intersected by an undescribed species of
Syringopora, from Wild Fowl Bay, Huron County.
DR. E. HAUSE, Tecumseh.
Palmately branching fossil (fucoid?)
CLASS OF 1871.
Thirty-two specimens of uncommon rocks. The whole number
contributed by this class is 105 specimens and about 60 entries.
C. F. MILLER, C. E., Battle Creek.
Black-band iron ore, from a coal bed four miles S. E. of Lansing.
PROF. J. MONTGOMERY, Woodstock, Ont.
Petrified moss from near Knightstown, Ind.




145
STATE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, A. Winchell, Director.
Standard lithological specimens collected and investigated by Prof
R. Pumpelly, to illustrate a section across the " Copper Range," at
Portage Lake. Lake Superior, 107 entries, 107 specimens, [Register Nos.
7001 to 7107.]
Standard lithological specimens, illustrating the rocks of the Marquette Iron Region, Lake Superior, collected by Major T. B. Brooks,
Assistant, and investigated by him, and by Dr. T. S. Hunt and A. Winchell. 106 entries, 106 specimens. [Register Nos. 6001 to 6106.]
G. A. WATKINS, Ann Arbor.
Fifteen samples of rocks brought up from the bored well at Ann
Arbor. Total depth, 770 feet.
C. H. WALKER, '74, Detroit
Specimens of veinstone of the silver bearing veins of the nortl
shore of Lake Superior. 13 entries, 13 specimens.
BY PURCHASE.
A series of 132 lithological specimens, illustrating the metamorphic
rocks and iron ores of the mining regions of Saxony, labeled by Benno
Wappler, of Freiberg.
Additions to the Museum in Zodlogy.
J. B. STEERE, Alumnus.
The following is a summary of Mr. Steere's zoological collection in
Brazil:


Mammals, skins........................
"      skulls........................
T otal............................
Birds, skins.............................
"  skulls..........................
" Eggs.............................
"Nests.........................
T otal..........................


18 entries. 29 specimens.


6 
24


10    is
39


184 entries.
12
12    "
4 "
209


322 specimens.
16     "
21 "
10
369
9 specimens.
5
14


Reptiles, (alcohol,)......................   6 entries.
"    Eggs.........................       2    "
Total....................   8
Fish....................................     1  entry.


1 specimen.


I  -  -- 
1  1i


Total..........................




146
Shells, Univalve.........................   53 entries. 618 specimens.
"  Bivalve....................... 13     "     181 
Total.....................  66          799


Cirripeds...............................    entry.
Insects.................................  53  "
Grand Total................... 362


8 specimens.
108     i
1338


A. WINCHELL.
Several specimens of Talitrus, with eggs attached, in alcohol.
Bat from Vicksburg, Miss.
A box of specimens from Sandy Hook, N. J., containing:
Sharks' eggs...........................  1 entry.     2 specimens.
Gasteropod shells........................  9 entries.  40   "
Lamellibranch shells..................... 12        150
Bryozoa................................   2    "       5 
Starfish.................................  1 entry.   1  specimen.
Corals...................................     "       6  specimens.
Sponges..............................       "       6    "
Crustacea..............................  3 entries.   7     "
Total...........................  30   217
W. WANNER, Nazareth, Penn.
Mounted male and female Humming-birds, (Trochilus colubris,)
through W. Detwiller, student.
A. S. WADSWORTH, Elk Rapids, Mich.
Antlers of common Deer, (Cervus virginianus,) in the "velvet."
C. T. HARRIS, Jr., Ann Arbor.
"Snout Beetle," from Ann Arbor.
J. L. LITTLEFIELD, '71.
Pine Grosbeak, (Pinicola canadensis,) Ann Arbor.
ENES J. WARNER, Rushford, Minn.
Pouched Gopher, (Geomys bursarius,) mounted.
JAMES A. WILSON, Webster, Mich.
Star-nosed Mole, (Condylura cristata,) Webster.
H. A. ATKINS, M. D., Locke, Ingham county, Mich.
Male and female Pine Grosbeak, (Pinicola canadensis,) from Locke
SAMUEL F. COOK, Alumnus.
Nest of leaf-cutting Bee.




147
JAMES OTTLEY, Janitor.
"Blue Racer," (Bascanion constrictor,) five feet long, from Ann
Arbor.
H. B. HUTCHINS, '71.
Humming-bird, (Trochilus colubris,) from Ann Arbor.
ADOLF VON BRAUN, Ann Arbor.
Ring-necked Snake, Diadophis punctatus, Ann Arbor.
P. H. BuMPUS, '70.
Vial of Colorado Potato Beetles, (Doryphora 10-lineata,) from
Minnesota.
N. H. WINCHELL.
Seventeen eggs of Herring Gull, (Larus argentatus,) from Rocky
Islands, in Green Bay.
S. Du Bois, M. D., Unadilla, Mich.
Five eggs of Bittern, (Botaurus lentiginosus,) from a bog in Livingston county, in May.
J. BURKITT WEBB, '71.
Piece of the keel of a ship bored by the ' Ship Worm," (Teredo
navalis).
UNKNOWN.
Ship-timber bored by Teredo navalis.
PROF. C. L. FORD.
Ten species (51 specimens) of shells from Giants' Causeway, Ireland.
Additions to the Museum in Botany.
J. MONTGOMERY, Alumnus, Woodstock, Ont.
Carpels of an apparently Malvaceous fruit from the West Indies.
Spines of Honey Locust, (Gleditschia triacanthos,) from near Plainfield, Ind.
Fruit of Tulip Tree, (Liriodendron tulipifera,) Plainfield.
N. M. WELLS.
Boll of Sea-Island cotton grown at Erie, Monroe county, Mich.
M. W. HARRINGTON, Assistant.
Pods and seeds of Kentucky Coffee Bean, (Gymnocladus canadensis,)
from Ann Arbor.
PROF. C. D. LAWTON.
Fruit of an exotic plant called " Devil's Claws," strongly resembling
the skull of a bird, Lawton, Mich.




148
J. C. JONES, '72.
Collection of about 200 species (500 specimens) of unnamed plants
fiom Farquhar's Point, Minn., on the north shore of Lake Superior,
about ten miles from the mouth of Pigeon river. On investigation, only
about six were found new to the University collection, though the remote northern locality renders all of these plants interesting. Among
the species we find Rannenculus Lapponica, never before discovered in
the United States. Among the rarer forms are Luzula parvifiora, Avena
Smnithii, Eriophorum vaginatumt, and others.
THE MISSES WILLARD.
"Texas Dish-cloth," apparently a part of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant, used, when dampened, as a towel. From Texas, presented
through Mrs. Collins, of Ann Arbor.
J. B. STEERE.
Sixty-three species (263 specimens) of dried plants from the valley
of the Amazons.
Additions to the Museum in the Department of Archoeology and Relics.
T. H. ELLIOT, Alumnus.
Rebel shell from Vicksburg, Miss.
J. H. WARNER, M. D., St. Clair, Mich.
Bone-bead from an Indian grave in Moore, Ont.
J. C. JONES, student.
Two Indian Sap-troughs made of birch bark.
SECRETARY OF STATE, LANSING.
Five drawings on wood, discovered by A. Winchell among the
archives of the State department at Lansing, and identified as a portion of the drawings executed by S. W. Higgins, topographer and
draughtsman to the State Geological Survey of 1838-45. According to
Assistant Secretary Rowe, these five pieces of box-wood were contributed to the department among samples of Michigan woods, and were supposed to be the product of Michigan. It is possible they were found
washed upon the beach soon after the wreck of Dr. Houghton's
canoe, October 13, 1845, and thus naturally supposed to be specimens
of Michigan timber.
J. B. STEERE, Alumnus.
Various articles of pottery from ancient mounds in the valley of
the Amazon.




149


Sundry articles of food-both crude and partially prepared-used
by the Indians and mixed-breeds of Brazil.
Various domestic utensils and articles of ornament in use in
Brazil.
SUMMARY OF ADDITIONS FOR THE YEAR.
Geological.............................  579  entries.  678  specimens.
Zodlogical........................  421    "   1670     "
Botanical..............................  270  '   777 "
Archeological.......................  26    "     43 
Totals.........................  1296    3168
ALEXANDER WINCHELL,
Professor of Geology, Zodlogy, and Botany.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1
September 23, 1871.
Prof. Wood presented and read a report in reference to the Department of Engineering, which was referred to the Commrittee on the
Scientific and Engineering Course.
PROF. WOOD'S REPORT
To the Hnorable Board of Regents:
I desire to make the following statements in regard to the Department of Engineering:
In the Annual Catalogue, only those students who are regular
members of the senior class, and who are pursuing the study of Civil
Engineering, are classed as students in Engineerihg. Besides these,
there are always several in the lower classes who have that course in
view, but who are classed as scientific students; and some others who
are classed as resident graduates; and still others in the select course.
This classification is convenient for preparing the Catalogue, but it does
not show the full strength of the Department. In order to give a better idea of the numbers that have been taught in this Department, I
have prepared the following table, beginning the dates with the year
that I entered upon my duties in the University. The numbers in Descriptive Geometry and Elementary Drawing were about the same as
in Land Surveying.




150


~ YEARt.          XmgI.'s    s
Y'Rl            ~|."  ~ cea
Q a)
1857-8...            7........ 7.....................  33
185 -9...................9   8........  8  1................  21
1859-60..............  10........  10........  2........  13
1861-62..................  5.......... 5........  13
1862-63.................         5      3     5........  22
1863-64................. 9      9     2     1........  27
1864-65.................. 7........  7  2   6........  26
1865-66..................   8    8           7...............  35
1866-67..................2       12     2     7     2     37
1867-68..................  9 5  20...  11     5     50
1868-69.................  1  5 21     1    13     5     46
1869-70...............  15  4   19.....   12     3     52
1870-71..................  19  2  21   3    15     1     61
Of these there are, at the present time, as nearly as I can ascertain: 62 civil engineers, 11 professors or teachers, 2 in business, 2 farmers, 1 editor, 1 assistant in an observatory, 1 director of an observatory
at Cincinnati, and 1, business unknown. I may add that one other was
killed at the battle of Shiloh.
From these numbers we see that the growth has been slow but
gradual. There have always been as many students as could be thoroughly taught with the force in the Department. During the first few
years of my connection with the University, nearly my whole time was
devoted to teaching classes in Physics and Mathematics, and only a very
small amount of time.was given to developing the course in Civil Engineering. But as the number of students in it increased, and as it became more largely professional, a greater demand was made upon my
time in attending to it, until, at present, my whole time is given to it,
besides the entire services of an assistant and a part of the services of
another. But we have never sought to do more than to take care of
what has come to us. We have not expended large sums of money in
erecting buildings or in procuring expensive apparatus for this Department, or in especially advertising it. The apparatus which we have is
constantly used by the students, especially the field instruments and




151
qridge models. The Transit Theodolite, which was made by Wim. Wiirdemann, of Washington, at a cost of $450, is a first-class instrument.
Besides this, we have five other instruments, all of which the students
are required to learn the use of. More apparatus of all kinds is needed.
We ought to look to a larger development of our technical courses.
When the University was organized, there was no special provision for
developing courses in Engineering and Technical Chemistry, and yet
the University, out of its original funds, has developed these to a considerable extent. But it cannot do this as fully as it ought with its
present resources. Some institutions have received an amount of
money for sustaining scientific schools, and in some cases for developing
a specialty, exceeding that of the original endowment of the University. For instance, the Lehigh University, of Pa., has received from a
single individual $500,000, with a conditional promise of $250,000 more.
Mr. Stevens, of N. J., made a bequest of $650,000, the income from
which is to be used for sustaining a school of Mechanical Engineering.
The Museum of Natural History, at Cambridge, Mass., has cost over
$500,000, more than half of which has come from private donations. A
Mr. Whitworth, one of the best mechanical engineers of England, gave
$500,000 for establishing a school for mechanical engineers in England.
Belgium, in 1863, established thirteen technical schools, for teaching
arts and trades, and crowned the whole with an Industrial University.
It is interesting to note the effect of these schools upon the prosperity
of that country, The State of Illinois has just expended over $60,000
in erecting and supplying a machine shop at her Industrial University,
at Champaign. Practical Mechanics is to be taught in this shop. The
gift of Ezra Cornell is too fresh in the minds of all to need repetition.
The scientific schools at Yale (Sheffield) and Harvard (Lawrence) have
been developed and sustained through private munificence. These, and
other equally important facts, should be brought before the people of
the State, and the wants of the University in this direction should be
made known.
I think we ought to seek for the establishment of a fourth department of the University, to be called, SCHOOL OF TECHNOLOGY, or, INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL, or, SCHOOL OF ARTS AND TRADES, or some other
suitable name, within which we should organize advanced courses in
General Science, courses in Technical Chemistry, courses in Engineering and Architecture. To accomplish this requires more means than
the University has at its command, and hence an appeal should be made
to citizens of the State to endow such a school, or endow professorships, or to erect a building, or to furnish apparatus; and if this does
not succeed, an appeal should be made to the State for the same object,
trusting that from one or both sources the necessary means might be




152
secured to enable the University to develop such a department as to do
credit to itself and meet the demands of the times.
Respectfully submitted,
DE VOLSON WOOD,
Prof. Civ. Eng.
Regent Gilbert presented the Annual Report of the Finance
Committee, which, on motion of Regent Walker, was accepted and
adopted, and ordered printed in the Minutes.
REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE.
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan 
The Finance Committee herewith submit a statement of the financial condition of the University, June 30th, 1871, the close of the fiscal
year.
The receipts into the Treasury have been as follows:
Balance on hand July 1, 1870............................ $14,798 27
(Of this amount, $11,062 50 was due that day for salaries.)
Received from State Treasurer during the year, on account
of University  Int. Fund............................  46,657  95
Received on account of Annual State Aid Appropriation... 18,750 00
For students' fees and diplomas........................ 22,010 00
For Int. of Treasurer on University account................  1,225 47
From   all  other  sources..................................  654  75
$104,096 44
The disbursements have been:
For Salaries, wages of Janitors, &c., the last quarter of the
previous year, and the first three quarters of the year
ending  June  30, 1871............................ $60,776  67
Appropriated for account of General Library.............. 1,843 20... Medical          "...............   500 00.."    "      "     Law         '...............   400 00
(.      "     Contingent Expenses................. 15,927 49
Balance on hand to credit of General Fund................ 24,649 08
$104,096 44
Of this balance of $24,649 08, in the Treasury June 30th, 1871
there was due for salaries, on that day, the sum of $9,687 50, leaving
an actual balance belonging to the University of $14,961 58, which




153


amount is $12,259 06 in excess of the estimates of the Finance Committee made at the commencement of the fiscal year.
This excess of resources is derived mainly from payments by the
State Treasurer on account of University interest, that have not heretofore been made so promptly, showing receipts from that source for
the fiscal year about $9,000 in excess of the interest that accrued in
that time.
The further sum of $3,750 was received on account of the Annual
State Aid that belonged in the previous year, and the receipts for students' fees, diplomas, &c., have been $4,000 more than the estimates.
The appropriations for Contingent Expenses for the year
amounted to...................................... $15,927 49
Of which there remains unexpended in the hands of the
Stew ard............................................  1,191  32
Total  expended........................... $14,736  17
For details see Statement hereto annexed, marked A.
The Board will remember that that part of the State Aid that accumulated in 1868 and 1869 was set apart for special and extraordinary
expenses.
The amount in the Treasury June 30, 1870, belonging to that
fund, was....................................... $7,988 29
From which has been expended:
For Hospital furniture and arrearage of income.... $600 00
Reseating recitation rooms........................ 443 80
For account of Steam Heating Apparatus.......... 750 00
"     "   New Fence...................... 1,200 00.. "      Repairs President's House.......... 1.200 00
' M  useum...........................  150  00
"  Medical Department................ 123 00  4,446 80
Balance, June 30, 1871............................ $3,521  49
The Reserve Fund consists of:
iich. 7 per cent. Bonds............................... $7,000 00
East Saginaw   10s........................................  6,500  00
Ann  Arbor  7s............................................  3,200  00
M anchester  10s...........................................  1,500  00
Cash....................................................  1,047  88
$19,247 88
This fund represents in part the avails of a sale of property in
Detroit.




154
We estimate the receipts of the University for the year ending
June 30, 1871, as follows:
Balance on hand June 30, 1871.......................... $24,649 08
Int. from State on University Fund................... 37,500 00
Annual  State  Aid......................................  15,000  00
Students' Fees, Diplomas, &c...........................  20,000 00
R ents..................................................  250  00
Int. on  University  account..............................  800  00
$98,199 08
Disbursements estimated:


Salaries due June 30, 1871......................
Salaries first three qrs. of the current year.......
Annual Catalogue..............................
Regents' and Visitors' Expenses................
Insurance..................................
Fuel and Lights...............................
Libraries.......................................
Improvement of Grounds......................
Other expenses................................
Salaries that will be due June 30, 1872...........
Alterations and Repairs........................


$9,687 50
53,976 66
1,200 00
800 00
1,500 00
3,000 ()0
2,500 00
400 00
4,000 00
1,500 00
15,037 50 93,601 66


Surplus.................................... $4,597 42
While there will be this surplus if the receipts meet the estimates,
and the appropriations do not exceed the amounts recommended, it is
apparent there will be a serious deficit if we take into the account only
the receipts of the current year.
It will be possible to go through this year without incurring debt,
but the next will show a deficit of more than $10,000. Some measures
must be taken to provide against this contingency, and your Committee can suggest nothing but an appeal to the people. It is the duty o0
this Board to present this subject to the consideration of the Legislature at an early day, in order that the needed assistance may be rendered before the treasury becomes embarrassed.
The aid granted the University by the State should be based upon
a percentage of the taxable property, and not a fixed sum as at present.
This point is so well understood by the Board that it is unnecessary to
say more upon it.
The report of the Treasurer of the University, and his vouchers,
are herewith presented. They have been examined and found correct.




155


The accounts and vouchers of the Steward have also been examined and found correct.
The accounts of the Laboratory have been presented and examined
by the Steward, and reported right.
The expenses of the Hospital for the year, including considerable furniture, amount  to.......................... $2,068  65
Received  from   patients....................................  925  38
Paid by the University..................... $1,143 27
Such arrangements have been made for the present year as will
probably make the Hospital self-supporting.
The act appropriating $75,000 for the erection of a new building
for the University provided that the money should be paid when collected through the ordinary channels of taxation. Arrangements have
been made with the Second National Bank, of Detroit, whereby we
have been able to anticipate the appropriation, and thus to secure the
much needed building a year sooner than we otherwise could.
THOS. D. GILBERT,
Chairman.
Regent Gilbert read a letter from Gov. Baldwin, introducing Dr.
Ellis and Dr. Younghusband, to the Board, in which he expressed the
hope that HIomoeopathy might be settled by some appropriation on
the part of the Board.
On motion of Regent Estabrook, these gentlemen were permitted
to address the Board.
Regent Walker offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That J. Burkitt Webb be appointed Instructor in Civil
Engineering at a salary of $1,000 per annum.
Adopted by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook,
and McGowan.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That Edward L. Mark be appointed Instructor in Mathematics for such a portion of the year as his services may be needed
by Prof. Olney, at a salary not to exceed $600.
Adopted by vote as follows. Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell,
Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution which was
unanimously adopted:




156


Resolved, That we approve the efforts that are being made to
establish a Homceopathic Medical School at Detroit, to be eventually
connected with the University, and when we are authorized to make
it a part of the University by law, with proper provisions for its support, we will administer its affairs to the best of our ability.
The following resolutions were presented by Regent Walker:
Resolved, That Robert Harbison, A. M., be appointed Instructor in
Modern Languages and Literature, in place of R. S. Rosenthal, who declined his appointment, at the usual salary.
Resolved, That leave of absence for one year be granted to Prof.
H. S. Frieze, to visit Europe, upon the condition of his furnishing a
satisfactory Instructor in his Department.
Resolved, That Frank A. Blackburn, A. M., be accepted as such Instructor.
Adopted by vote as follows: Ayes —Regents Sweezey, Stockwell,
Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
Regent Stockwell presented the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the annual salary of Prof. H. S. Douglass be fixed
at $2,500, from Oct. 1st, 1871, and that he be relieved from the duty of
repeating his lectures to the ladies of the Medical Class, provided he
can so arrange his lectures as to avoid introducing the students of
both sexes into a common lecture room.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook,
and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, Section 1, Chapter X. of the ByLaws of the Department of Science, Literature and the Arts, was
amended   by inserting after the word professors, " and assistant
professors."  As amended the section reads as follows:
"The professors and assistant professors of this department shall
be styled the Academic Faculty."
Regent Estabrook presented the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That an advisory committee of three be appointed by the
President, to confer with any or all persons who desire to do so, on
the subject of the proposed Homceopathic School to be located at some
point other than Ann Arbor.
The committee appointed by the President is as follows: Regents
Estabrook, Walker, and Willard.
The following appropriations were recommended by Regent
Gilbert, Chairman of the Finance Committee.




157


FROM GENERAL FUND.
For  Contingent expenses................................  $1000  00
"  Repairs  and  alterations..............................  500  00
"  Fuel and  lights.....................................  200  00
" Insurance.......................................  300 00
"  Postage........................................   200  00
" Advertising Medical Department.....................    32 00
FROM STATE AID FUND.
For unpaid balance for Steam Heating apparatus..........  $555 93
For Gas Supply Pipes on grounds........................   121 93
Ordered by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Walker the Board went into Executive
Session, after which the following resolution was offered by Regent
Gilbert:
Resolved, That the sum of $1000 be appropriated for Assistants in
the General Library, for the current year.
Adopted by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell. Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the sum of $84 60 was appropriated for Regents' expenses.
Ayes-Regents Sweezey, Stockwell, Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook,
and McGowan.
Board adjourned to 8- o'clock A.    I., Tuesday morning.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Tuesday, Sept. 26, 1871.
Board re-assembled at 8   o'clock A. M., at the office of the
President.
Present-the President, Regents Sweezey, Walker, and Gilbert.
No quorum being present, the Board adjourned to Wednesday
Jan. 3d, 1872, at 7 o'clock, P. M,
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




ERRATA.
On page 154, second line, read June 30, 1872.
Same page, 19th and 20th lines, read: Salaries that will be due
June 30, 1872, $15,037 50. Alterations and Repairs, $1,500 00.
On page 155, twenty-first line, read appropriate action for approIpriation.




JANUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN,
January 3d. 1872.
The Board of Regents assembled in regular session, at the office
of the President, at 7 o'clock P. Mi.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, and McGowan.
The meeting was opened with religious exercises, by the President.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved, and the reading
of them was dispensed with.
Regents elect, Grant and Rynd, being present, the oath of office
was administered to them by Regent Walker, and they took their
seats.
Ex-Regent Stockwell being present, was, on motion of Regent
Walker, invited to remain in session with the Board during the
meeting, and was also requested to read the Annual Report of the
Board to the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, which had
been prepared by him.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Report was accepted and referred to the Executive Committee, with instructions to prepare it for
publication.
Regent Gilbert presented and read the Quarterly Report of the
Treasurer, which, on motion of Regent Willard, was accepted and ordered placed on file.
Regent Rynd read a communication from Oscar J. Rice, stating
that he had lost, by the Chicago fire, the diplomas received by him
from the University, and requesting that the Board consent that duplicates be furnished him.
On motion, the request was granted.




160


The following resolution was presented by Regent Rynd, and referred to the'Committee on the Medical Department:
Resolved, That the Committee on the Medical Department be and
are hereby instructed to report at the next meeting of this Board,
whether in the judgment of said Committee, Professors holding positions in the Medical Department of the University may hold similar
positions in the Detroit Medical College compatibly with the interests
of the University.
Regent McGowan presented a revised list of the Standing Committees of the Board of Regents, as follows, which was adopted:
Executive Committee. —The President, Regents Walker, McGowan,
and Willard.
Finance Committee. —Regents Gilbert, Burt, and Grant.
Committee on Classical Course. —Regents Willard, Estabrook, and
Walker.
Committee on Scientific and Engineering Courses and the Clemical
Laboratory. —Regents McGowan, Gilbert, and Rynd.
Committee on Law Departtment.-Regents Grant, McGowan, and
Rynd.
Committee on Medical Department. —Regents Rynd, Gilbert, and
Burt.
Library Committee.-The President, Regents Estabrook, Willard,
and Walker. Professors Frieze, Sager, Cooley, Watson, and the Librarian, are also members of the Library Committee.
Colm.mittee on MVuseum and Astronomical Observatory.-Regents Burt,
Grant, and Estabrook.
Regent Gilbert submitted the following resolution, which was
unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That in the event of the calling of an extra session of the
Legislature, the Governor be requested to call its attention to the necessity of such a change in the law appropriating $75,000 for a new
building for the University, as will enable the Regents to draw the
amount which will, under the law, be put into the tax of 1872, out of
any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated; and that he
be also requested to recommend a further appropriation of $15,000 for
the building, if so much be needed.
The following resolutions were presented by Regent Walker:
Resolved, That the examinations for admission to the University
shall begin on the Thursday next following the 16th of September, and




161


the regular work of the semester shall begin on the morning of the
Wednesday following the examinations.
Resolved, That the following be substituted for sec. 17, chapter 10,
of the by-laws of the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts:
" Delinquencies, such as tardiness, absences, deficiencies, offenses
against good order in the several departments of instruction, shall be
dealt with by the Professor in charge of the department in which' they
occur.
"Flagrant and incorrigible oases shall be reported to the Faculty
for adjudication."
Adopted.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the Board give its approval to the special notice to
Preparatory Schools, as prepared and approved by the Faculty, in the
forthcoming announcement of the requirements for admission to the
University.
The following resolution was also submitted by Regent Willard:
Resolved, That Chapter III, Sec. 15, of the By-Laws of the University be amended by inserting after the word Faculties, in the seventh
line, the words "at the annual meeting for the election of their respective officers," so as to read as follows:
" All standing committees, except the Executive Committee and
the Library Committee, shall consist of three members each.
" The Executive Committee shall consist of the President of the
University and three Regents to be appointed by the Board; the Library Committee shall consist of the President of the University, three
Regents, and one member of each Faculty, to be chosen by the respective Faculties, at the annual meeting for the election of their respective
officers, and the Librarian. All standing committees shall exist during
the pleasure of the Board of Regents, and may at any time be modified
or changed by the Board."
Regent Walker presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of $40 be appropriated to pay the expense
of transportation of the skeleton of a mastodon presented by Dr. E.
House, of Adrian, to the University.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.




162
Regent Gilbert submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the following appropriations be made fiom the General Fund, to be drawn as needed:
For Contingent  Expenses.................................... $1000
" Repairs...............................5.............. 500
Fuel  and  Lights.........................................  400
"  Annual  Catalogue.....................................  1200
"  Insurance................................................  600
"Galvano-Caustic Apparatus for Illustration in Surgical Operations...............................           100
Adopted by vote, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Board went into executive session, after which the following resolution was submitted by Regent
Walker:
Resolved, That Professor H. S. Frieze be granted an additional
year's absence in Europe, on the same conditions as originally specified.
Adopted. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
and Grant.
Nay-Regent Rynd.
Regent Gilbert presented the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the President be authorized to employ the Secretary
of the Faculty for three months, to keep the records of examinations,
and of the unexcused absences of students, at a suitable compensation,
and report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the sum of $75 25 was appropriated for Regents' expenses, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.
The President made a statement in reference to the salary of the
Assistant Librarian, after which Regent Gilbert submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the action of the Library Committee in reference to




163
the salary of Mr. R. C. Davis, be approved, and that he be paid for his
services at the rate of $1,000 per year.
Adopted by vote, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.
On mQtion, the Board adjourned to March 25th, 1872, at 7 o'clock
P..,
H. ). BEN BENNETT, SECREFTARY.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERISITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Monday, March 25th, 1872.
The Board of Regents assembled in the President's room  at 7
o'clock, this evening.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert; MeGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The meeting was opened with religious exercises by the President.
On motion of Regent Walker, the reading of the proceedings of
the last meeting was dispensed with.
Regent Rynd, Chairman of the Medical Department, presented
and read the following report:
REPORT.
To The tfonoracble Board of Regetts, University of Miichigan:
The following resolution was referred to the Committee on the
Medical Department, at the last meeting of the Board:
"Resolved, That the Commlittee on the Medical Department be and
are hereby instructed to report at the next meeting of the Board,
whether, in the judgment of said Committee, Professors holding position in the Medical Department of the University may hold similar
positions in the Detroit Medical College compatibly with the best interests of the University."
Pursuant to the requirements of the above resolution your Committee have had correspondence with Professors Palmer and McGraw,
gentlemen who are advertizec  as holding the double relationship to
which reference is made.
These gentlemen claim that the University is laboring under great
disadvantages from lack of proper clinical instruction; that the small
percentage of graduates-students jin many instances going East to




166
finish their medical education-is cue to the absence of such instruction; that they have effected an arrangement by which many of these
students will be retained to finish their course in Ann Arbor, and that
" The Detroit Medical College will also gain in getting a great numlber
of students who otherwise would go to Eastern schools." It is also
claimed that the appointment of Dr. McGraw as Lecturer on Surgery
commits the Regents to the arrangement.
On the other hand we are advised-and we trust that no confidence
is betrayed in bringing such advice to the attention of your Honorable
Board-that certain members of the medical Faculty think the "arrangement" hazardous to the University and beneficial, if at all, to the
Detroit School. Eminent members of the profession in the State, outside of both Institutions, assure us that the partnership proposed is not
only injudicious but unwise; that the University cannot afford and
does not need the formation of entangling alliances; that professors
cannot well serve two masters who live in immediate proximity, and
that the best interests of the University demand an immlediate dissolution of any relationship which interested persons may have been laboring to affect.
Your Commlittee, in approaching the consideration of this question,
do not wish to impugn the motives of any gentleman who may have
expressed an opinion on the subject, or who may have been more intimately associated with the arrangement under which the double relationship has been thus far permitted. Our object is to candidly present
such facts as may have a bearing on the case, advise such a course as
will, in our judgment, maintain the integrity of the University, preserve its unity, and best promote those interests which we are bound
to protect, not only by our individual pride in the Institution, but also
by the solemn official obligations which we have assumed.
The Medical Department has certainly labored under serious disadvantages during the last few years by the too frequent changes which
have occurred in the corps of instructors. Persons of marked reputation and long experience who had contributed their full quota to the
success of the Department have severed their connection with the Institution and are now engaged in other fields of labor. An unsettled
and unhappy state of feeling has existed, growing out of the acrimonious discussion of the homceopathic question. Notwithstanding
these draw-backs, however, we find that the number of students since
the session of 1863 and '64, has averaged considerably more than double
the attendance prior to that date; that the per centage of graduates has
not only increased from 6 to 26, but the whole number of graduates
for the last six years nearly equals the total number of students who
graduated during the first sixteen years, and further, that public con



167


fidence has been steadily growing in the men who have been honored
by securing diplomas from an Institution distinguished by the estab
lishing and maintaining of a course of instruction, which, for its
thoroughness, is without parallel in this country.
The objection is now made that we do not afford suitable clinical
advantages. We think that this disadvantage has been unduly magnitied, not only by parties interested in rival schools, but also by some of
our own people. The great majority of our students enjoy before coming here and also between lecture terms the best kind of clinical instruction under the direction of practitioners who are generally persons of eminence in the profession. It is generally conceded that the
advantages which are thus afforded are preferable to those offered in
hospital practice as usually conducted. The student in private practice
monopolizes all the facilities which careful diagnoses. the judicious application of remedies, and a decent regard for the good-will of the
people afford. Every practitioner of experience knows that the
crowded hospital, with the hurried method of observation, and the too
often stereotyped prescription, is not well calculated to beget correct,
careful, pains-taking investigation in the student whose ideas and habits
are formed under such vicious and demoralizing influences.
Hospital practice affords a'striking contrast to that which exists in
the field of the private practitioner. The student who has enjoyed the
thorough course of elementary instruction which the University enforces, and, in addition to this, has been carefully drilled in the application of great fundamental principles at the bed-side of the sick, under
the watchful eye of the experienced practitioner, is admirably adapted
to the work of humanity in which the medical profession is engaged.
Our students are being prepared for private practice. If the saying of the old Spartan King be correct, that "boys ought to learn
those things which they expect to practice when they come to be men,"
then certainly the best field for the acquirement of such practical
knowledge as may be needed is under the direction of the private practitioner. Experience proves this; the most eminent educators admit it.
The unparalleled growth of the Medical Department of itself furnishes
no weak argument in favor of the points which we have briefly made.
If it were desirable to secure enlarged clinical advantages your
Committee entertain grave doubts of the propriety of accepting such
facilities through the questionable source of a rival school, and by an
arrangement which transfers the time and talents of our instructors to
the service of such rival. You would not certainly permit Professors
in the Literary or Scientific Departments to devote their time, talents,
and influence, through a portion of the year, to the Colleges now existing in Albion, Hillsdale, Kalamazoo or Adrian. Why then discrimi.




168
nate in favor of medical gentlemen who, besides the emoluments of
private practice, are certainly quite as well paid as our professors in the
other departments of the University. Self is, to a certain extent, the
spring of most men's actions. Medical men are not wholly exempt
from this necessary ingredient. In the University a certain fixed salary
is paid whether there is a medical class of ten or ten hundred. In a
private school-such as Detroit for instance-the professors' fees depend on the number of students in attendance. Permit this double relationship and you afford unusual facilities for building up the Detroit
School at the expense of the University; opportunity is given for intrigue; the unity of the Institution is endangered; the Faculty is divided while no adequate compensation is afforded even prospectively,
other than that which the Detroit Institution expects by "getting a
great number of students who otherwise would go to Eastern schools."
Futhermore, if two members of the Faculty be permitted to hold
this double relation, why may not every member of the Faculty be permittedc the same privilege, and thus, while receiving a liberal salary
from the University conduct a school in a neighboring city of our own
State for their own private emolument?
Your Committee have no desire to wage a warfare with the Detroit
Medical College. While we would extend the courtesies of the University to this and every other institution of learning in the State, we
are strenuously opposed to effecting a partnership when nothing can be
gained and much may be lost.
The best interests of the University demandl that the various Faculties shall serve in their respective departments with ndivicded loyalty;
that the very best results attainable shall be produced with such advantages as we now possess, or may be enabled hereafter to control,
and that a spirit of enthusiasm for the University may be communicated
from professor to student. In this way, and this only, can the Institution meet the reasonable expectations of a generous people. Your
Committee in view of all the facts involved, respectfully report adverse
to any Professor in the Medical Department of the University holding a
similar position in the Detroit Medical College.
C. RYND.
After some remarks upon the Report by Regent Gilbert it was
laid upon the table for the present.
The President announced that a medallion of Randolph Rogers,
the sculptor, had been received from Hon. C. C. Trowbridge, of Detroit, and then read the following letter:
DETROIT, March 16, 1872.




169


Jatmes B. Angell, LL. D, President of the Univer'sity of Michigan,
iMY DEAR SIR:-During my visit to Rome a year ago, I chanced to
see, under the chisel of Robert Cushing, a young American artist, a
very striking medallion of Randolph Rogers, the sculptor. Having
satisfied myself that as a work of art it was worthy of notice, it occurred
to me that to deposit it in the hall of art of our University, with the
sanction of the Faculty, would be a fitting testimonial of appreciation
to Mr. Rogers, who, at a very early age adopted Michigan as his State;
who has already set the example of contributions to the art works of
the University, and who has so greatly distinguished himself in tle
composition of the Michigan Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, as well
as by his generosity to the people of Michigan, in largely exceeding the
bounds of his contract for that work. With this view I took occasion
to procure the medallion, wllich has recently reached me, and which I
respectfully tender through you to the University.
I am, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,
C. C. TROWBRIDGE.
The following resolution, presented by Regent WVilard, was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the Board, in behalf of the University, gratefully
accept the beautiful medallion portrait of Randolph Rogers by Mr.
Robert Cushing, and presented by the Hon. C. C. Trowbridge, of Detroit,
to the University, to be permanently deposited in its Hall of Art. The
very great honor which the distinguished artist represented by the
medallion has conferred upon the State and nation, and upon the entire
commionwealth of art, as well as the active interest manifested by the
leminent donor in the welfare of the University, both unite in clothing
this gift with especial importance, of which, the Board hereby desire to
give this public recognition.
By Regent GilbertResolved, That the sum of $50 be placed at the disposal of Prof.
D'Ooge, for the purpose of purchasing Greek examination books, while
in Europe, for the use of the University.
Adopted by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard,
Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
Prof. Wood being present, it was announced that he had prepared a report giving some estimates of the cost of establishing a separate school of Engineering and Technology, which, by request was
read by him.




170


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, March 25, 1872.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
At the meeting of the Board in September last, I suggested to you
the expediency of establishing a fourth Department in the University,
in which fuller and more extended courses in Engineering than are
now pursued here, courses in Architecture and in the application of
chemistry to the practical arts, and advanced courses in the various
Physical and Natural Sciences, should be offered to our students. You
have been pleased to express the desire that I should more fully develop the idea then broached, and especially that I should make an
estimate of the probable cost of providing for such enlargement of our
work as was contemplated in my former communication.
In the organization of the University, no provision was made for
establishing such courses as we have named. Yet with no special funds
for this purpose, by the practice of the most rigid economy, and by the
assiduous labors of Professors, large, and. it is believed, creditable work
in those branches has been accomplished. The graduates from our scientific courses, from our Laboratory, and from our school of Engineering,
are holding honorable and conspicuous positions, and with pride we
point to them as the fruits of our work. We think we may fairly claim
that this work has furnished no mean contribution to the reputation
which the University has won. We have at any rate been steadily attracting an increasing number of students, who have come here for the
express purpose of pursuing these scientific branches. Our enlarged
Laboratory is none too spacious. The number of Engineering students
is more than four times as great as it was ten years ago. But, except in
the Laboratory, our facilities for imparting instruction, our means of
illustration, our corps of Instructors, have not increased at all in the
same proportion. It has been possible to care for the enlarging classes
only by the excessive labor of the few teachers, who had them in
charge.
The rapid expansion of our railroad system, the opening of our
mines, the ever multiplying applications of the sciences to the practical
arts, the call for competent teachers of science in our High Schools,
academies and colleges, all demand at our hands the amplest provision
for organizing such a Department as has been suggested. We fail of
our proper duty as a University, if we are lacking in this respect. Our
students, who in rapidly increasing numbers are training themselves
for the work of Civil Engineers, of Mechanical Engineers, of Mining
Engineers, of Metallurgists and Assayers, of Architects, of Naturalists,
of Instructors in science, or who desire for any reason to make the




171


largest and most generous attainments in science, cannot at present
receive at our hands all the help we would gladly furnish them.
If we observe what other prominent institutions are doing to meet
this acknowledged want of our times, we shall see that we are in danger of forfeiting the position we have held among them, unless we
speedily make strenuous efforts to enlarge our work. Not only are the
better colleges and universities expanding and strengthening their scientific departments, but new and richly endowpd institutions are springing up, which devote their whole energies to science and its applications to the practical arts. The Stevens Institute at Hoboken, and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Boston, are examples of this
class of schools. The former is sustained by the munificent bequest of
$650,000 made by the late Edwin A. Stevens. The latter has not only
received endowments from the United States and from Massachusetts,
but is fostered by the generosity of intelligent and wealthy citizens of
Boston, who perceive its great service to the scientific and industrial
interests of their city and their State. Is it too much to hope that private or public benefactions will soon enable us to multiply our power
of doilng that larger scientific work which is called for by the real wants
of a rapidly increasing class of students?
It is unnecessary at this time to draw out a working scheme, for
we must finally be guided in a measure by the means at our command,
and by surrounding circumstances; but we may safely and properly
give sonle general indications of what we desire to accomplish.
And first, our course ill Civil Engineering should be more fully developed so as to be more thorough and more comprehensive. It has
thus far supplied an existing want, and those in the field have often said
to us that the course laid a good foundation for them. But they perceive its defects, and see wherein it can be improved to meet existing
wants. But to learn of our defects without having the ability to improve upon them is discouraging. The course as at present organized
could be made more efficient, if we had more instructors.
That branch of engineering known as " Mechanical Engineering"'
should be developed. Machinery now plays so important a part in our
industries, that every facility should be offered to young men for securing a knowledge of its principles of operation and construction. There
should be special facilities for those who desire to understand practical
mechanics, and particularly for those who aim at superintencing mechanical operations, machine shops, the erection of machines for use,
etc. At least a general knowledge of the principles of machinery
should be taught to students in Civil Engineering, and Mining Engineering. No important constructions are erected at the present day
without the use of a variety of machines. As the great developments




172
in railroads have induced many to study Civil Engineering, and have
given rise to many schools for giving instruction in that department of
study; so, if I am not mistaken, there will be an immediate and increasing demand for instruction in " Mechanical Engineering." The
University of Michigan ought to be ready to meet that demand. But
at present we have no means for developing such a course.
To make the course efficient, we should have numerous models of
different working machines, which should be used in the lecture-room
for explaining the mechanical principles upon which they are constructed, and for helping the pupil to understand their merits and demerits. We might procure from the Patent Office and from inventors
many models which would serve as a AIuseum of Models. We ought
also to have a small shop, furnished with machines and tools, where
expert students, if there are any, (and we have some nearly every year,)
could make such models or machines as they might design or invent.
But such a shop should be used chiefly for instruction. Students would
here learn how machines are made. They would be required to handle
the tools and machines to a limited extent, sufficient at least to learn the
proper mode of using them. As this may be a novel feature to many, and
strike them unpleasantly at first, I will say by way of comparison that
the shop should serve the same place in the study of practical mIechanics that the Laboratory does in the study of chemistry, or Clinics in the
study of medicine. The teacher in both of these explains the principles,
and says, " This or that is the way," after which the student attempts
to do his work, in the laboratory-in clinics-or in the shop, as the case
may be.
The object of the shop would not be to make complete experts in
all the manual processes. Neither would we attempt to make mere
workmen, but we would seek to make intelligent mechanics-men who
would know how to do things on correct principles. In connection
with the shop, instruction would be given in the whole process of constructing a machine. Beginning with the design which might be
shown by a mere sketch, then would follow the working drawings;
then pattern making; then moulding; then turning and planing of the
parts; the properties of various irons and steels; the fitting up of the
parts; and any other principles which may be involved in the successful working of a machine.
To make such a shop and such a course eminently successful, there
should be at least one skilled workman in the shop, so as to serve as a
model workman for the students. By keeping his shop in order, and
everything properly arranged, and by doing all his work in the best
style, he would serve as an instructor. The University now needs a
good workman, independently of any regard for this course of instruc



173
tion. We have several steam boilers, several steam pumps, two steam
engines, and some other machinery, and several thousand feet of steam
pipes. 'These are constantly liable to get out of repair, and often deinand the services of a skilled workman to put them in order. Apparatus also needs'repairing, and new apparatus and models might be
made. The University needs more work every year than a good workman can do, and if the work is not done, we suffer thereby. A good
shop and a skilled workmnan would, if used in this way, be a saving to
the University.
Such a course in connection with an educational institution would
so far from being a novelty, be really in keeping with the spirit of the
times. Both in this and in foreign countries there are several institutions which offer well defined courses of instruction in " Mechanical
Engineering."
It is desirable also to have a higher course in the Natural and the
Physical Sciences, which would afford facilities for a more extended
study of Geology, Zoology, Botany, Optics, Heat, Light, Electricity,
etc., than it is now practicable for us to give.
The work in Technical Chemistry and Pharmacy would fall within
the general range of the contemplated department, and more systematic and prolonged courses than are now furnished could be given in
Metallurgy and Assaying, and i all that pertains to the working of
metals.
The Professors of Physics and Natur;.l History and Chemistry
could readily suggest wise plans for the expansion of the work in their
several fields of labor and instruction.
If the courses which have been named above were fully provided
for, a course in Mining would naturally follow, for it would require but
little additional to what could be selected from other courses.
As desirable as it may be to establish a fourth Department of the
University in which these courses should be organized and developed,
it appears to be impossible to do it with the present resources of the
University. The expediency is more a matter of money than of sentiment.
In determining the amount requisite for establishing this Departmient, we need not consider that a pol tion of the force which is necessary
for carrying it forward is already supplied by the University; for according to the report of the Finance Committee, there is danger of financial embarrassment unless aid is secured fron some quarter, and by
fully endowing this Department it will afford some relief to the present
Department. A new building will be required, which should be especially adapted to the wants of the Department, and which would contain suitable laboratories for making experiments in the physical sci



174


ences, shops for daily manipulations, and recitation and lecture rooms.
The funds for purchasing apparatus and a scientific library should
be on the endowment plan, so that a permanent and annual income
may be realized, thereby enabling the Department to secure promptly
the latest publications, and new and improved apparatus.
To secure these objects I have estimated that the following amounts
are necessary; reckoning the income from the endowments at 8 per
cent. per annum:
A new building...........................................  $0,00
Furnishing and heating.............................. 15,000
Endowment of Apparatus fund............................     6,000
Endowment of Library fund.............................    6,000
Furnishing  shops.......................................  2,000
Apparatus for immediate  use................................  10,000
Endowment of Professorship of Civil Engineering........... 31,250.(...... "            Mechanical Engineering.....  31,250...".         "          Mechanical and Free Hand
Drawing.................   31,25(0.."  "       " Gelodsy, and of Field operations.....................  31,250
"    " Instructorship of Drawing.................... 17,000
Total..................$241,000
1Hence the least sum which should be asked for endowing a School
of Engineering is $241,000.
It will be observed that I have made no provision for instruction
in mathematics, or literature. These I suppose would be taught in the
present courses of study.
If a complete School of Technology is to be established, there
should be added to the above, and in addition to what is already provided in the University, the following estimated alnounts:
Endowment of a Professorship of Metallurgy and Assaying... $31,25.)
4" "...' Ai'chitecture............... 31,250
" Instructorship of Chemistry................  17.000
Part "       " Professorship of Experimental Physics.....   16,000.t "t      "       ". of Geology and Zology.......  16,000.. " Instructorship in Taxidermy, Modelling in
Plaster, Clay, Wax, &c................. 17,000




175


Purchase of Models in Architecture, Drawings, and Architectural  D esigns..........................................  3,000
Total......................$132,500
To which add as above.................... $241,000
Grand  Total.................$373,500
The "part endowment" refers to those Professors who would also
teach in the present Department.
The above are the minimum amounts with which it would be safe to
establish the Department. If there were a large number of students,
requiring more Instructors, it would demand a larger sun; or if preparations were made for costly and brilliant experiments, they would
swell the grand total by many thousand dollars. The estimate here
made is on the most economical plan.
I do not present this statement with the expectation that it alone
will bring the aid which is needed. Constant efforts must be made
But I trust that it will not be without its influence in bringing relief to
us. While other institutions of learning are being endowed with the
express purpose of promoting Technical Education, some of them,
with an amount nearly double that of the grand total above named, we
cannot expect to maintain our standing by the side of them in this
regard, and enjoy an equally good reputation, unless we have the
means at our command which will enable us to compete with them.
DE VOLSON WOOD,
Prof. Civil Eng.
On motion of Regent Walker, the report was refe:-ed to the President and Professor Wood, with the request that it be prepared for
publication; that it be printed in the minutes, and 500 extra copies be
printed for the future use of the University.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McGowan, Gi ant and
Rynd.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That a sum not exceeding. $150 be appropriated for the
purpose of paying the freight and other expenses attending the transmission of models from the Patent Office at Washington, under the regulation providing for the distribution of the same among the various
institutions applying for them.
Lost by vote as follows:  Aye-Regent Willard; Nays-Regents
Walker, Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.




176


On motion, the Board went into executive session, and after
spending sonie time therein, resumed the regular business of the
meeting in open session.
A communication was read by the'President from President A.
K. Spence, of Fisk University, requesting that the degree of M3. S.
be confered upon Mr. H. W. Hubbard, who graduated in the University of Michigan in 1866 as B. S.
The following resolution presented by Regent Willard was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the degree of Master of Science be conferred upon
IMr.. W. Hubbard, a graduate of the University, in the class of '66 as
Bachelor of Science, and now connected with Fisk University, Tenn.
By Regent WalkerResolved, That Prof. George W. Merriman have leave of absence
for the remainder of the Semester to acquaint himself with the new
methods of instruction employed in Physical Laboratories.
Adopted.
The Dean of the Medical Facultyliread the following report, which
was adopted, and ordered to be printed in the minutes:
ANN ARBOR, March 25th, 1872.
To the Iaonorable Board of Regents of the University of Mlichigan:
GENTLEMEN: —In conformity to the established usage the Medical
Faculty beg leave to submit their annual report.
The number of students in attendance during the session is 350.
Compared with the catalogue of the last year this shows a difference of
thirty-five in favor of the present term. The number of ladies in attendance during the session was thirty-five, being more than twice the
number of the previous class. This steady increase in numbers indicates a probable final and complete success. The number of candidates
for graduation is eighty-two. Their names will be submitted in an appended report.
The Faculty feel a peculiar gratification in presenting the names of
so large a number whose qualifications to enter upon the duties of a
responsible profession have been so thoroughly tested. In view of the
very general satisfaction expressed by the class, with the instruction in
Optlalmology given by Dr. Frothingham  as Lecturer on that branch
of surgery, the Faculty beg to urge his appointment as Professor of
Opthalmic Surgery, and adding to the duties of the Chair, those of
Aural Surgery. This would seem but simple justice for the faithful




177
and satisfactory manner in which his duties have been discharged. Tlhe
course of lectures being, however, a limited one, not exceeding about
one-fifth of an entire course, the incumbent of that chair does not propose to ask for an increase of his remuneration. The hospital. so far as
the limited means of accommiodation would permit, may be truly said to
have met our expectations, and we feel warranted in saying that when
more ample accommodations can be provided, it will still further contribute to facilitate and extend our means of instruction. The Faculty
beg leave therefore to express the hope that this subject will early receive the earnest attention of your honorable body. For a statement of
the financial condition of the hospital we would refer to the Steward of
the University.
In furtherance of the same general object, the Faculty beg to submit that in their view the course of didactic instruction would be greatly
improved, and a more complete medical education be ensured by such a
modification as would enable the students to elect one of two courses
offered by the Institution, one of which would make the present requirement of two years of private study in the office of some reputable
practitioner, and two six-months terms of lectures; and by the other
they would be required to attend two nine-months terms of lectures,
leaving the period of private study optional with them.
The advantages secured by this change would be, first, to enable the
Faculty to treat of many importanl subjects which they are now compelled either wholly to omit, or to discuss only ih alternate terms.
Second, it would enable the student by the more diligent and profitable
employment of his time to attain the object of his ambition in a shorter
period, and probably at less expense. It is believed that a part of the
two years now ostensibly spent in private study, in offices under the instruction of practitioners, too busily engaged to give them mluch atten
tion, is nearly lost to a portion of medical students, and that even this
very imperfect study is merely nominal in some cases. By the adoption
of the second plan this period of imperfect study would be replaced by
at least two years ot thorough, responsible and disciplinary study, during which examinations would be made daily, or at such short and
stated intervals as the Faculty would deem most conducive to their advancement. The details of this plan, it is believed, could be so arranged
as to secure the objects sought without any considerable increase of the
expenses of the department, which might be balanced by a small additional fee required from the students. Other collateral and incidental
advantages, which time does not permit me to mention, woulld accrue
from this, among which we may say that it would be a stepping-stone
to still further improvement.
Harvard has in this respect set an example that Michigan Uni



178
versity should not b)e slow to fllow, eei      as  e    i   to be a
peunier in the improvement of medical education.
As the la:st appropriation proved to be deficient by nearly fifty dollars, an appropriation for advertisemnents of $200 is respectfully  requested.         By order of the Faculty,
A. SAGER, Dean.
The following coininunicatioon was received from   the Medical
Faculty:
ANN ARBOR, March 23, 1872.
To the Honorable Board of Reyents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN —At a meeting of the Faculty of Medicine on the 22nd
inst., the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the persons whose names are subjoined be and are
hereby recommended to the Honorable Board of Regents for the degree
of Doctor of Medicine.
Respectfully submitted,
A. SAGER, Dean.
Name.                                        Residence.
Albert W. Adamns..................h..    a... Charlotte.
Joseph H. Bacheler..........................bbardston.
Elfred R. Barney............................West Green, Pa.
W alter A. Boor...............................  ew  Castle, Ind.
Maadison E. Boynton, B. A................... Clinton, N. Y.
John F. Burdick, Jr......................   Ithaca, NV. Y.
Samuel W. Chandler...........................Clinton.
Samuel Chapin, Jr....................... Grass Lake.
Henry H. Cook................................ ason.
William R. Ditmars...................   I.....   lillsdale.
Chas. P. Donelson...........................Flint.
Ethelbert E. Duncanson.......................Chicago, 111,
Francis  P. Esterly............................Helena  Stat'n, T is.
M. Francis Fasquelle, MA. A....................Ann Arbor.
Edward C. Fisher............................ iiddleport, Ohio.
Henry  Fitzbutler............................. A herstburg, Ont.
Otis C. Flick..................................  est Libertdy, Iowa,.
Isidore Freund................... Port Huron.
Jam es H.  Fuller.............................. a    ar,  d.
John  J. Galentine.............................Clvela d, Ohio.
Alexander A. Gibson..........................  illicothe,  Ohio.
Conrad  George..............................  aterloo, Ont.
Joseph Green.............................. Caledonia.




179
Philander A. Harris..........................Johnsonsburg, N. J.
Samuel D. HartmanCi...C...............'iecanoe City, 0
Henry S. Haskin............................. Oswego, N. IY
Alvin  C. Henderson.........................   Cadiz, Ohio.
Simon Herres..........................St. Agatha, Ont.
John  E. Hewitt.............................Geneva,  Ohio.
W illiam   E. Hill...............Bo................Brown's  Mills,  T. V a.
Patrick  F. Hogan............................. Net w  )lk  City.
Loren  A. Houghton..........................     harlotte.
Benjamin R. Hoyt................... WTatled Lakce.
Henry Hull..............................   Battle Cr eek.
Win. C. Huntington...................o.......lowell:
Isaiah  Johnston................................Ottawa  Cit/,  (.'it.
Franklin  B. Jones...........................Ida.
John R. Jones, P. C....................A nn Arbor.
David W. Jump...................     Cen terton, Ohio.
Josiah R. Kelly........................ 3everly, llt.
Charles A. Kersey...i...................ichmond, Ind.
James T. Lawless...........................Adrian.
Charles J. Lundy.............................Detroit.
Dennis Maanna.............................. Redood, V. Y.
Colm McCormick............................ lorpeth, Ont.
John C. McIvain............................Lasin.
George A. Meredith...........................Ontario, Iowa.
Charles N. Metcalf...........................Fairfield, N. Y.
Joshua  M iller................................Ann  Arbor.
Archibald Mitchell............................ullerton, Ont.
Frederick L. Morse..................... Rochester, Vt.
Jasper P. Newton...................    i..........ig,ate, Vt.
Anthony Oldfield, Jr..................Port Sanilac.
Frank  K. Owen............................... Ypsilanti.
Stephen E. Palmer............................&ullivan, Pa.
Edgar  Parker................................. Clayton  IlI.
Ora L. Pelton...................Se......      Sherzan, N. Y.
Oscar S. Phelps................................ ol mbi.
T. George Ranney...........................Albion.
Watson E. Rice..............................Shresbry, Mass.
Samuel V. Romig.............................Ann Arbor.
Bowles C. Smith............................Ann Arbor.
Sparrow A. Snow...........................Dearbornz.
John  S. Sprowl............................... Waren, I    d.
George W. Stevens......................... Clinton.
Milton D. Stiles..............................East Troy, Pa.




180


Charles  H. Stowell......................... Perry, NV. Y.
Williaml J. Taylor............................   Ayler, O.
Joshua  Tennant............................. Blythe, Ont.
Alexander S. Truman.......................St(trthroy, Ont.
Samuel C. Van Antwerp...............C........ andaicgua.
Thomas Mc M. Weacock.  o................... elose, Ont.
William H. Wilcox............O...........   Oxford, Ohio.
Julius Wise.......................... College HIill, Ohio.
Joel F. W riglit................................ Coventry,  Vt.
Nathan D. Yale, B. A........................Dundee.
Ann Ayres...................    O..............Frt Plain, iV. Y.
Ruth E. Hull...........................air Haven, Gom.
Annie  NTews................................. ez   York  City.
Anna H. Searing..........................Poplar R.-idge, N. Y.
Helen  M. Upjohn............................. Kalamazoo.
Helen F. Warner......................... etroit.
T otal................................................... 82.
On motion of Regent Rynd, it was ordered that the degree of'
Doctor of Medicine be confered upon the eighty-two persons named in
the commnunication from the Medical Faculty.
The Board cow adjourned to 9 o'clock, to-morrow      (Tuesday)
morning.
Tuesday morning, March 26th, 1872.
The Board re-assembled in the room of the President, at 9 o'clock
A. M.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, WAillard, Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
On motion of Regent Walker the unfinished business of the meeting, was resumed.
The following communication from the Dean of the Law Faculty
was presented by Regent Grant:
To the Honorable Board of Iegents of the University of Michigan:
The Faculty of Law respectfully recommend that the degree of
Bachelor of Laws be conferred upon the following persons, who ha ve
severally completed the prescribed course and passed the requisite examination:
Name.                                       Residence.
Castillo Ball................................. Soan' Station, Ohio.
Milton  Carlton  Barnar d........................ Westille, Ind.




181
George Henry Barrett, B..................... Clevelanld, Ohio.
William Henry Barrows....................... Ontario, lzd.
Hugh Wilson Beatty, B s........................ilan, Mo.
Martin Luther Becker,o.................   sto,?, Ohio.
Charles Julius Beerstecker....................Cerelle.
Alvah Alanson Benjamin, B. A.................leveland, Ohio.
Charles Merkley Bice, B. A.....................Lexington.
Weller Dean Bishop, B. A..............s.......   1illtale.
Hiram  P. Blackburn........................... Cha paigns, 111.
James IH. Blanchard, B. A.......................Ann Arbor.
Jerrus J. Brumbach.............................Marseilles, Ill.
James Henry Buchanan...................... Moberly, Mo.
Curtis  Buck................................... Cedar  Sprig/s.
Charles Henry Budd............................ Lockport, 2V. Y.
Charles Francis Burton, B. A...................  asting~s.
Charles Tatem Burton.........................colt, l.
J. Wilson Caldwell, M. A.......................Pittsb'urg, Pa.
Clarence Louis Campbell......................   basha, llIino.
Zachary Taylor Cason......................... Cinsville, Tenn.
J. Jerome Caulkins.......p..................... aples, 1V. Y.
Worth Chamberlain............................Muskegon.
William Lawrence Conley............... Penn Yan, N. Y.
Gerrett Smith Conger........................ Gozuverneur', N. Y.
Arthur Corse..P                                    ot...................  Plymnouth, Ind.
George Whipple Corwin, B A.'.................loalk, Ohio.
Hale Odin Benedic Cowley..............    Farminzgton.
Samuel Benjamin Davis......................... Yreka, Cal.
Amos Denison, B. A............................Pa-rma, Ohio.
Benjamin Henry Derby.........................Charlotte.
Charles Worman Derr..................    Federick City, M1}d.
Crines Hardenbergh Du Bois...................Iigh Falls, NA  Y.
Benjamin F. Eason.............................. Vooster, Ohio.
John Alison Edget............................ East Sagiinaw.
John Babb Elam,, B. A...................... Spring Valley, Ohio.
George Seeley Engle.........................Ann Arbor.
Milo  Erwin................................... Crab  Orchard, III.
Lemuel Albert Esteb.......................ingston, Mo.
Silas Stone Fallas, Jr.................... Lowell.
Charles William Farrand.................... Onalaska, Wis.
John Hiram Fedewa........................... Vestphalia.
Elam Fisher....................................Etoz, Ohio.
Warren Washington Fisher...............  Eaton, Ohio.
John Fitch, Jr........................         oledo, Ohio.




18 2


Jacob Lancdis Flickengcr, I,.....................    ilton, Ohio.
Thomas Hood Frazer..... f.t........,.............rroll, 111.
Edward French............................... Battle Creek.
George Gartner.................................Detroit.
William Ball Gilbert, B. A......................Zanesville, Ohio.
Robert Mitchell Gray.......................... Charleston, 111.
Charles Franklin Grow......................... eest Point, Wis.
Samuel H-iram Gruber....a................ r....?        ridge, Ill.
Edward Chatmplin lHagarl, 1. x...................Plaifield, II.
Robert Johnson Haire..........................ackson.
James Edward Hazell..........................ipton, Mo.
Henry Marcus Hill, B. s., Att'y.............       rcade,. Y
Samuel Whaley Hopkins........................Coventry, Ct.
John Adam Hostette..............Shanzesville, Ohio.
Edward Hoverson..................... Troy, Kan.
William Hoyne..........................    St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Hryde, ePH. B.......................    armington, Ohio.
Newton Jasper Hubbard...................... illsdale, Ill.
Amos Grove Huber.............................. Chambersb'rg, Pa.
William Taylor Hughes.................... St. Joseph, Mo.
Edwin Marshall Irish............ G.......  Gorham, Me.
Oscar Thomas Jannasch.................n............. a oo.
David A. Jay..................................Jonesboro, Ind.
John Hamilton Johnson........................ Findlay, Ohio.
William Oscar Keffer..................             Cottage Grove, Ind.
Lucius Knight........A.......nn Arbor.
William  Robert Lacey..Oh................ Oskcaloosa, Iow(a.
Charles Kellogg Lathanm.............eed's Corners, N. Y"
Warren Lee Livingston........................ Lyndon, 1ll.
Daniel Carr Lyle.P    a........................Pa PCtP'aw.
Alfred Phineas Lyon............         filford.
Arthur Wellesley Madden, Att'y................ larveysburg., Ohio.
Harvey W. Magee...........................        Charleston, I.
Milo Elijah Marsh, B. s........................Brighton.
Robert Donald McDonald...................Danville, ill.
Donald McIntyre, Jr.........................Ann Arlbor.
Charles Eugene Miller......................... East Saginaw.
Luke Salisbury Montague....................... Unadilla.
George William   Moore........................  silanti.
Stephen Wilson Morris..i.........................Iront, Ohio.
Robert Edward Murrell.........................  con, Tenn.
Francis D. Neale.....................G.... Grand Haven.
Alfred Henry Nelson..........................Oroville, Cal.




8 3


Burt Newport.................................. Princeton, Ill.
Ralzemond Allen Parker........................ Birmingham.
Harriet Ada Patton..........................Ann Arbor.
John Colvert Pearson..............A........Attica, Ind.
Henry Southern Pettingill, Att'y.............Venice, Ill.
John Alfied Pickler, PH. B...................... Kiriksville, Io.
Otha Preston, Jr...............................South  Danville,  T.  Y
Samuel Britton Price, B. A.................... Branchville,. J.
George Washington Prichard, Att'y............._Hot Springs, Ark.
William Ramlsey...........................Jew London lowa.
Arnot Chaney Rickets, B. A....................Findlay, Ohio.
James Edward Riddick, M. A....................Macon, Tenn.
John R. Rowlen............................... Champaign ill.
Byron Randolph Russell...................... Crawfordsville, Ind.
John Lawrence Ryan, Att'y.................... Martinssville, 111.
William LaPayette Ryan..................
Alfred Bates Sager......................... Ann Abor.
Byron Henry Sawyer....................... HCudson.
John Herschel Serrels......................... Bryan, Ohio.
John Calhoun Shields.......................Hoell.
Aaron William Sindlinger.......................Plaifield 111.
William Redwood Smith, Att'y..................Atchison, Kan.
Leon  Steffler................................  Guelph, Ont.
George Marsden Stevens....................   ingfield, 111.
Mallory Napoleon Stickney....................Lapeer.
Samuel Carey Stimson, Att'y....................Terre laGdte, 1.id.
David  A. Stout................................ Dayton, Ohio.
William James Stuart, B. A...................... Istings.
Hiram   Buel Swartz.............................Seille, Ohio.
Marcus George Barker Swift....................Northville.
Timothy  Tarsney.............................   u dson.
Alexander Thomson, B. s.......................Morris, Ill.
Merritt Alonzo Thompson, B. s..................Vandalia.
John  Gilbert Tucker............................Chelsea.
William Shelp Tucker.........................Chelsea.
William Harrison Turner....................   Springfield, Ill.
Marshall Henry Underwood............         Mar'engo, Il1.
Jared Antony Van Auken, B. A................Adrian.
Henry Clay Waldron......................... Salem.
Lewis  W alker.................................. Capac.
Festus Walters, PHI. B........................Lancaster, Ohio.
Darius Clark Warner...........................Reading.
Augustus Gordon Weissert, Att'y................Racine, Wis.




184


John  Ford  W elch.............................. Palmyra.
Hamilton Kinkaid Wheeler...................   Yellow ilead, IlI.
John Daugherty White.........................i. lanchester, Iy.
Henry  Clay  W ills..............................Pittsboro Ind.
Lewis Taylor Williams........................ Brownsville, Tenn.
John Quincy Wing.............................Aurora, III.
James Hawey Winters........................ Ironton, Ohio.
Willis Wilcox Woodruff.......................... ienna, Ohio.
Wayland Worth Woodworth, Att'y.............Java, N. Y
Charles Dibble Wright......................oldwater.
Jplius William Youchc, B. A., Att'y..............New Bavaria, Ohio.
Total..................................................42.
Dated Ann Arbor, March 25, 1872.
On behalf of the Faculty,
T. M. COOLEY.
On motion of Regent Grant, the degree of Bachelor of Laws
was ordered to be confered on the 142 persons named in the communication received fiom the Law Faculty, and as recommended by them.
Regent Grant presented two communications in reference to the
appointment of Treasurer of the University, which were read by the
Secretary, and on motion by Regent Gilbert, were ordered placed on
file.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the Board went into executive session, at the close of which, it adjourned to 2 o'clock p. M.
TUESDAY, I March 26, 1872.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the President, at
2 o'clock P. IM.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and Rynd. Regent Burt, also appeared and took his
seat.
Regent Rynd, after a few remarks upon the report, upon which
the Board had spent considerable time in executive session, moved
that the report lie on the table, as it could be called up at the June
Meeting, or any future meeting.
Agreed to unanimously.
Regent Gilbert, from the Finance Committee, reported a conference with Hon. D. McIntyre, Treasurer of the University, who has
consented to retain his office and discharge its duties until the end of
the present fiscal year, and then presented the following resolution:




s 8)


Resolved, That Hon. John M. Wheeler be elected Treasurer of tile
University upon the terms and conditions stated in his communication
to the Board, dated March 25, 1872, his duties to commence at the close
of the present fiscal year.
The following is the communication referred to:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan 
GENTLEM, EN-Being informed that the office of Treasurer to your
Honorable BoiRrd is soon to be vacant, you will please consider my
name before you as an applicant for the position.
In the event of my appointment, satisfactory security will be given
for the proper discharge of the duties and conditions required by the
Board, and seven per cent. interest upon the daily balances in my hands
to be credited up quarterly, will be allowed.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN M. WHEELER.
Ann Arbor, March 25, 1872.
The resolution was adopted by vote as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, McGowan, Grant
and Rynd.
Regent Gilbert stated that the following appropriations were
called for, and recommended that they be made flolm the general fund
and drawn as needed.
For Mathematical apparatus........................... $  50
" Contingent expenses................................. 1000
" Fuel and lights.......................................... 300
"  Insurance..............................................  300
Grounds............................................  200
(  Rezents  expenses........................................  108.60
Ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, McGowan, Grant
and Rynd.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Gilbert:
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Literary Faculty be paid for
his official services at the rate of $100 per annum.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, McGowan and
Grant; nay-Regent Rynd.
On motion of Regent Willard, the Board adjourned to Monday,
June 24th, 1872, at 7 o'clock P. MI.
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,       f
Ann Arbor, Mich., June 24, 1872.
The Board of Regents assembled at the room of the President at
8 o'clock, P. M.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, and Rynd.
The meeting was opened by the usual devotional exercises by the
President.
The reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with, and on motion, they were approved as printed.
Regent Gilbert, chairman of the Building Committeemade a statement that Messrs. Pike & Hornby, of Chicago, contractors for plastering the new building had failed to fulfill their contract by reason of
losses incurred by the Chicago fire, and of advanced prices in material
and labor. The contractors had not absolutely refused to fulfill their
contract, but had failed to do their work after proper notice.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to do whatever they deem necessary to secure the plastering of the new building.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.
By Regent WalkerResolved, That the unexpended balance of the sum appropriated
for assistance in the museum last year amounting to $100, be placed in
the hands of Prof. Winchell to be expended for additional specimens
for the museum from California.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.
Regent Rynd offered the following resolution, which was adopted:




188
Resolved, That the funds of the University be placed in the hands
of the chairman of the Finance Committee until such time as he can
legitimately transfer said funds into the hands of the Treasurer elect.
Regent Gilbert read the following communication from Donald
McIntyre, which on motion of Regent "- illard was ordered printed in
the minutes.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:- Having changed my residence from the State of
Michigan to the State of New York, I hereby resign the office of
Treasurer of the University of Michigan, this resignation to take effect
on the first day of July next, as requested by the chairman of your
Finance Committee. Having accepted this office by request of the Finance Committee, without solicitation on, my part or of any of my
friends, and performed its duties since the first day of January, 1864,
it seems fitting that in surrendering the trust thus conferred upon me
I should, as I now do, express my thanks to the board for the honor
thus bestowed upon me, and especially to the Finance Committee and
its Chairman for the confidence, kindness and courtesy always manifested in their official intercourse with me. Wishing each member of
the Board a long, useful and happy life, and that the University may
long be blessed by your united counsel and wisdom, I bid you all an
affectionate farewell. Very respectfully,
DONALD McINTYRE.
Dated February 10, 1872.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Walker, and
unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That in accepting the resignation of Hon. Donald McIntyre, as Treasurer of the University, the warm and earnest thanks
of this Board be communicated to him for his most faithful services
for the past eight years, and for his admirable and judicious management of the finances of the University during that period.
Regent Gilbert called the attention of the Board to the
contemplated change in the windows of the north and south college
buildings, and after a free discussion the matter was referred, on motion of Regent Willard, to the Building Committee, with full power
to do as they might deem best.
The following communication in reference to the establishment of
a State Hospital in connection with the University, was read by Regent Rynd, chairman of Committee on Medical Department, and on
motion of Regent Gilbert it was ordered printed in the minutes:




189


REPORT ON STATE HOSPITAL.
The Committee on the Medical Department desire to call your
attention to the early establishment of a suitable State Hospital in connection with the Medical Department of the University.
The best interests of the University demand that active, energetic
mieasures be taken in this direction. The establishment of such an Institution as is contemplated will not only afford suitable facilities for
clinical study to medical students in general, but will also furnish facilities not found elsewhere in the West for pursuing the higher clinical field of thought, and thus enable the Department to elevate the
standard of professional acquirements with the best practical results.
The cause of humanity within our borders calls urgently for such
an Institution. Not only are our alms-houses the repositories of many
persons who are thus incarcerated to languish, suffer on and die without that aid to which the suffering poor are justly entitled, but many
persons of wealth and refinement labor from diseases which if treated
at all by the private practitioner, are treated but poorly, and with indifferent and unsatisfactory results.
Cases are frequently occurring in the practice of every physician
which cannot be properly cared for by home agencies. He cannot
give the necessary time; has not always had sufficient experience in
the management of such cases; is not possessed of suitable appliances.
Many delicate and difficult cases peculiar to females, the proper treatment of which often involve serious surgical operations, either go to
New York or Philadelphia, at great expense and risk, or stay at home
to die, without any suitable effort having been made to remove disease
or mitigate human suffering.
Scores, we might safely say, hundreds of cases may be found
where deformities exist which render life a burden and existence almost intolerable. Skillful attention and proper appliances would in
many of those cases convert hideousness into comeliness,and make that
life which is now a burden, useful and happy. As a rule, no such appliances are to be found in the office of the private practitioner. Our
surgical clinic, useful as it has been, is nevertheless hampered through
lack of suitable hospital facilities.
A large number of cases not alluded to above would here find refuge
and help, and would thus be protected from the ravages of the soulless charlatan from whom our laws at present afford no protection
whatever.
Diseases of the eye and ear are usually so delicate in their nature
that they demand special care and management. We design that such
diseases shall receive the best treatment which the advanced and advancing state of medical science can furnish.




190


It is unnecessary to call your attention to the f act that no such
Hospital as is contemplated exists within the borders of our State.
There is no probability that such an Institution will soon be founded
by private munificence. We are yet in our infancy and can hardly
expect so much. The sick, however, we have with us, and to such the
State has a solemn duty to perform which cannot longer be ignored;
a duty as binding and obligatory as is that of providing for our insane.
The University, possessed of a corps of eminent medical and surgical
practitioners, and situated in a clean, healthy, inviting locality, is the
proper place for the location of such an Institution. Every, physician
knows that the pure atmosphere and quiet surroundings of Ann Arbor
are vastly preferable to those found in the bustling, crowded city.
In this connection we may state that the establishment of such an
Institution as is contemplated, will give a position, character and usefulness to the Medical Department which we cannot otherwise hope to
attain.
It may be proper to say, in this connection, that in future it is designed to secure resident professors for every chair in the Medical Department.
Your Committee are gratified to find that a healthy and favorable
state of public sentiment exists on this subject in various parts of the
State; and equally gratified to find that the citizens of Ann Arbor,
always true to the University, are contemplating the inaugurating of
measures by which material aid will be furnished.
We would respectfully recommend that the aid of the State,
through its Legislature, be invoked at the earliest possible moment.
A large, well arranged building, with all the modern appliances which
an advanced science affords, is contemplated. The funds of the University are utterly inadequate. We cannot spare a dollar for such purposes, urgent as is the demand. Unless we secure the aid of the State,
hundreds of our afflicted and suffering ones-the children of a common
Father-must groan, and suffer, and die, who might otherwise live
lives of usefulness and comfort.
Your Committee feel deeply on this question, and ask your earnest
co-operation, and that of the Medical Faculty; in fact, the co-operation of every friend, not only of the University, but also of the
afflicted.
It is not our intention to map out a plan of operations.  This we
leave to the legitimate action of the Board of Regents, and the Medical
Faculty.
We have faith in the Christian men who meet in Lansing; faith
in the humanitarianism of our people; faith that we shall be guided
and prospered in all our efforts to care for God's suffering and afflicted




191


children, by the Great Physician, who, when on earth, went about
"healing the sick."
In conclusion, we recommend that the Faculty of the Medical Department be requested to present, at the next meeting of the Board,
such general facts in regard to building, arrangements, appliances,
and probable expense as may in their judgment be necessary for our
further guidance and information.
C. RYND,
THOS. D. GILBERT,
HIRAM A. BURT.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the matter of seating the recitation
rooms, the chapel and the lecture room in the new building,was referred to the Special Committee on New Building, with powers.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McGowan, Estabrook,
Grant, and Rynd.
The President presented and read his Annual Report, Regent
Willard in the chair.
The following is the
PRESIDENT'S ANNUAL REPORT.
To the Ionorable, the Board of Regents:
I have the honor to present to you my report for the academic
year, which is now drawing to itsclose. Ourwork during the last twelve
months has been marked by no such important events as several which
signalized the administration of my predecessor in office, acting President Frieze. The admission of women to our classes, the gift of the Parsons (Rau) Library, the establishment of our new relation with the Hfigh
Schools of the State, and the generous appropriation of the legislature
for the erection of our new building, render the two years during which
Dr. Frieze discharged the duties of the Presidency ever memorable in the
history of the University. The influence of the scholarly enthusiasm, the
ripe academic experience, and the happy mixture of caution with enterprise which he brought to his work,still abides with us as a helpful force.
The year has been one of quiet, earnest and successful labor.
The teachers have performed their duties with the greatest harmony
and fidelity, and the students have, as a body, been exemplary and assiduous. The pervading spirit of the University has been that of
cheerful, spirited devotion to the work in hand.




192


THE FACULTIES.
The following gentlemen were appointed, at the close of last year,
or at the beginning of this year, and have performed the duties of
their respective posts:
Theodore McGraw, M. A., M. D., Lecturer on Surgery.
P. R. B. De Pont, B. A., B. S., Instructor in French and Drawing.
W. W. Beman, B. A., Instructor in Mathematics.
Robert Harbison, M. A., Instructor in Modern Languages and
Literature.
F. A. Blackburn, M. A., Instructor in Latin.
Marcus Baker, B. A., Instructor in Mathematics.
Edward L. Mark, B. A., Instructor in Mathematics.
Three of the Faculty have been absent through the year by permission of the Regents; professors Frieze and D'Ooge, in Europe,
and Mr. Harrington, on an expedition to Alaska. Prof. Frieze will
remain abroad another year, engaged in higher philosophical studies.
Prof. D'Ooge expects to resume his work in September. Acting Professor Elisha Johes, who has been occupying the chair of Greek during
Prof. D'Ooge's absence, will be released from service here. It gives
me pleasure to bear witness to the ability, scholarship and industry
which he has brought to his work. Mr. Harringtan expects to be at
home early in the next academic year. Dr. McGraw has resigned his
lectureship on Surgery. Mr. J. Burkitt Webb, who was appointed
assistant Professor of Civil Engineering in September, resigned his
place in November. Since April 8th, Mr. Charles S. Denison, C. E.,
has been employed as an assistant to the Professor of Civil Engineering.
Death has recently struck an honored name from our Faculty roll,
that of Zina Pitcher, M. D., Emeritus Professor of tle Institutes of
Medicine and Obstetrics. Though he never gave instruction in the
University, his fifteen years of valuable service in the Regency and his
specially important work in giving form to our Medical school secure him
a conspicuous place in our annals. Our Faculties of instruction have
this year consisted of thirty-eight men, twenty-eight of whom were
employed in the Academic Department, four in the Law Department,
and six in the Medical Department  Four gave instruction both in the
Academic and in the Medical Department. As three members of the
Academic Faculty were absent, the number of teachers actually on




193
duty was thirty-five, two more than were employed in the previous
year.
NUMBER OF STUDENTS.
The total number of students in attendance during the year is
1,224, which probably exceeds by about one hundred the number who
were present during the previous year. Our calendar this year gives
the names of 1,207 actually in attendance prior to its publication.
Seventeen students came afterwards. The catalogue of the year before shows an attendance of 1,110 before its publication.  It may be
interesting to compare the figures of each Department for the two
years, as shown by the catalogues.
1870-71  1871-72
Academic Department,.                       488       509
Medical,......     315       350
Law,.......  307       348
Total,.....1110        1207
The complete table of attendance for the whole year 1871-2 is as
follows:
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND THE ARTS.
Resident Graduates,...      9
Seniors,.....       84
Juniors,......     73
Sophomores,.....       97
Freshmen,.....    168
In Selected Studies,...       46
In Pharmacy,.....           40
Total,.....      517
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE.
Students,.                                       354
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Seniors, 142-Juniors, 211; total,..       353
Total in University,...         1224
It will be seen that there is a handsome gain in every department.
The attendance upon the Law school is much larger than that upon any
other similar school in the country and the total attendance in the
University is, I think, greater than at any other American College or




194
University. The gain in the Academic Department is the more noticeable since the examinations for admission were more rigid than ever
before. Nearly fifty applicants for admission, about twenty per cent.
of all, were refused. Yet the Freshman class was the largest which
has ever entered the University. Their average age on entering was
about 19i years.
Of the entire number in attendance, 1224, Michigan furnishes 577,
or about 47 per cent. Last year her part was 46 per cent. Her proportion in the Academic Department is nearly twice as great as in the
professional schools, thus, in the former about 64 per cent of the
whole, in the Medical Department 35 per cent, in the Law Department
34 per cent. Stated otherwise, the fact is, that nearly twice as large a
proportion of professional as of collegiate students come 'from other
States. This would be expected in considering how great is the number of American colleges in comparison with the number of professional schools. Our students come from 28 States and Territories, from
Ontario (Canada), New Brunswick and the Sandwich Islands. Ohio
sends us 134; Illinois, 124; New York, 87; Indiana, 56; Pennsylvania, 39.  The New England States furnish us 37, as follows: Maine,
5; New   Hampshire, 2; Vermont, 12; Massachusetts, 12; Rhode
Island, 1; Connecticut, 5. Ontario sends us 29. These simple figures
give us impressive suggestions of the wide reach of the work of the
University.
NUMBER OF GRADUATES.
The graduates in the several courses this year are as follows:
Pharmaceutical Chemists,.                          5
Mining Engineer,...         1
Civil Engineers,.....    10
Bachelors of Science,....        12
Bachelors of Philosophy,....     7
Bachelors of Arts,...        57
Doctors of Medicine,..                  89
Bachelors of Laws,....       142
Masters of Science (in course),...     7
Masters of Arts (in course),..        10
Master of Arts (on examination),...     1
Total,.....            341
In one case two degrees, and in another three degrees, were conferred on the same person. The number of persons actually receiving
degrees were, therefore, 338.




195


In addition three honorary degrees were conferred: one of M.D.,
one of A.M., and one of LL.D.
THE CHOICE OF COURSES.
It is gratifying to see that there is an almost universal desire on
the part of the undergraduates to pursue some complete course. It
should be understood that of the forty-six students, who are described
in our Calendar as pursuing selected studies, probably there are not
more than ten, who do not intend to earn a place in some one of our
regular courses. Lacking for a time the proficiency in some study,
which is requisite for standing in the class with which they hope to
graduate, they are placed in this category. For we mean that our
Calendar shall be rigorously honest and truthful. And we aim to
place no man on the roll of a class, until he is fully up with the work
of that class. There is a very encouraging tendency among those, who
come to pursue selected studies, to become inspired by their life
here with an aspiration to remain and complete some thorough cour e,
It should furthermore be remarked that of those who are registered as
pursuing selected studies there are always a few experienced teachers
who have come to study some branch as a speciality.
As our students are permitted to elect their courses, it is instructive to observe the nature of their choices. We may group our several
courses (excluding the Pharmaceutical, which properly considered
forms a special department by itself) under three general heads, one,
in which Latin and Greek are both pursued; another, in which only
one of the ancient tongues, (and that is almost without exception, the
Latin) is studied, and the modern languages, mathematics and the
sciences receive more attention than in the first; and a third,
in which the ancient languages are not taken up at all, but modern
languages, mathematics, and the sciences receive chief attention. The
Engineering courses, and the course in Analytical Chemistry, are included in this. These various courses are of equal length, four years,
and as the studies are now arranged, the scientific studies are certainly
not less laborious than the others. Calling them, the first, the Classical,
the second, the Latin and Scientific, and the third, the Scientific, the
students in the four classes this year are divided as lollows: Classica
194 (46 per cent.); Latin and Scientific, 81 (19 per cent.); Scientific,
147 (35 per cent.); total, 422.


* The select students are excluded from this classification.




196
On comparing these figures with those in the catalogue of 1867-s
I find that the percentage of the scientific students is almost exactly
the same to-day as it was then. At that time it was 36 per cent. In
1861-2 it was 28 per cent. In ten years there has been agradual, but
not a very rapid, relative increase of scientific students. I may remark
in this connection that there is a constant tendency for a certain proportion of the students, who enter upon the Scientific course, to make
special preparation and pass over to the Classical or the Latin and
Scientific course, and for a certain proportion of those, who enter upon
the Latin and Scientific course, to transfer themselves to the Classical.
Those timid friends of classical learning who have feared that it would
be abandoned in our colleges, if scientific studies were admitted to
equal honor with the classical, and those scientists who suppose that
there is no real and intelligent demand for classical training, especially
in the West, may with equal profit scrutinize these figures.
THE WORK DONE.
For details of the work done in the various department-, I refer
you to the accompanying reports of the Deans of the Medical and Law
Faculties, and of the professors in the Department of Literature,
Science and the Arts. You will find there the record of a year's faithful and successful labor. The Faculties have given themselves with
earnestness to their duties. The students have been very punctual in
attendance, and as a whole have met the demands upon them with
fidelity. A good number of the examinations in the Academic Department have been made, I think, somewhat more rigorous than
heretofore, and it would be well if still others were made more
searching. As a result of the examinations at the close of the first
semester twenty students failed so badly in so.,.e one study that they
are required to take, it again with the next class behind them. Eightytwo were so deficient that they were " c nditioned," that is, required
to sustain a re-examination on one or more studies on a specified day
in the next semester, and nine showed so little knowledge of their
studies that their parents were requested to withdraw them. Six of
these were Freshmen, and three were pursuing selected studies. The
failure of most of' the Freshmen was due in sonne degree to inadequate
preparation, and they may be permitted on due preparation to enter
the next class. Three other Freshmen had, by advice of the Faculty,
been previously withdrawn to extend their preparatory studies.
As a result of the examinations held in the second semester seventy-six were "conditioned," and eight "failed to pass" on some
study.




197
No student has subjected himself to the gravest censure of the
University. The connection of one student with the Institution was
indefinitely suspended for neglect to attend his classes, and that of two
others was suspended for a year on account cf their prolonged absence
without permission.
As I have not before been accustomed to see college classes working
without a " marking system," I may properly say that I am fully convinced by what I have seen here, at least of the uselessness of uch a
system for students like ours.  I have never seen a better average of
class work than I find here in the classes of the teachers, who insist on
having good work done by their pupils,and who possess in a fair degree
the power of inspiring them with enthusiasm.
Some of our professors, in addition to their class-room labors, have
this year reflected honor upon the University by making valuable contributions to the literature of their respective departments. Professor
Wood has published a treatise on The Strength of Materials, and Professor Olney a School Algebra and a treatise on Geometry and Trigonometry, to be followed by other mathematical works. Both the work
of Professor Wood and those of Professor Olney have met with a
hearty reception in a very large number of the better colleges and
schools of the land. Dr. Cocker has delivered to the students a course
of his lectures on the Evidences of Christianity, which were listened
to by large audiences and have been published by the senior class. He
has also in press an elaborate work on Christianity and Modern
Thought. Acting Professor Jones, in connection with Professor Boise
of Chicago, has prepared a text-book to guide pupils in writing Greek
prose.
THE OBSERVATORY.
Professor Watson's report explains the nature of the work which
has been done at the Observatory. It will be observed that the Professor has discovered three planets this year, making fourteen in all,
which are credited to our Observatory since he took charge of it.
It is greatly to be desired that the Observatory should be furnished from some source with the moderate endowment required for its
wants.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
It has already been intimated that the examinations for admission
were more rigid and exacting last year than they had been before. We
are also gradually demanding a larger range, as well as a better quality




198


of preparatory work. At the coming examination for admiss:on into
the Latin and Scientific course we are to ask a year's previous study of
French.  Next year we shall require the same acquaintance with
French, and a knowledge of the elements of Natural Philosophy, Botany, Geology and Zoology, as the condition of entering the Scientific
course. In the following year more Latin than is now required is to
be asked of those who take the Classical course. This is in accordance
with the general plan to raise the grade of our work as rapidly as the
preparatory schools can raise theirs. We keep up constant communion with the superintendents and teachers to determine how far they
can readily carry their students before they transfer them to us. They
show a most praiseworthy desire to push up the scale of their work.
I cannot use too strong language in expressing the indebtedness of the
University to these faithful instructors in the High Schools of the
State, who are striving with zeal and wisdom to lift the grade of work
in their schools, and so to enable us to begin our University work on
a higher plane. Of course we must take care not to raise our requirements more rapidly than the schools can raise their work with the
hearty approbation of the people whose taxes support them.
THE UNIVERSITY AND THE HIGH SCHOOLS.
It is with great pleasure that I refer to the first year's experience
in forming a quasi organic connection between the University and the
High Schools. It will be remembered that if the Faculty on the report of a Committee of Inspection, approve the work of a school, then
the University receives without examination the graduates of that
school, provided their certificates from their school board or superintendent declare that they have successfully pursued all the studies required for admission to our Freshman class. This promise to receive
the graduates of the schools binds the University only for the year in
which the inspection is made. Last year we received 50 Freshmen on
certificates, viz., 3 from the Detroit High school, 8 from Flint, 7 from
Jackson, 3 from Kalamazoo, 1 from Adrian, and 28 from Ann Arbor.
We see nothing in the result of the experiment to deter us from repeating it.
Those who predicted the filling up of the Freshman class with
poor material, or the lowering of the standard of scholarship in consequence of this step, have proved false prophets. Of the Freshmen,
who were "conditioned" or who "failed to pas " at the examinations of the past year, a decidedly larger percentage is found in that




199


portion of the class which entered on examination than in that portion
which was received on certificate. This is only one test, it is true.
But the indication which it furnishes that the students, who entered
by certificate, were on the whole better prepared than those who entered after examination, is in accordance with the general impression,
which the daily class-room work has made on the instructors of the
class. There is the very strongest evidence that the effect upon the
schools which stand in this new relation to the University, has been
most helpful. It has lent a new stimulus to the scholars, teachers and
friends of the school. The visits of the Committee of Inspection have
been received as gratifying proof of the interest of the University in
the schools. The conferences with the teachers and superintendents,
have been instructive both to them and to us. We have frankly and
kindly suggested methods of improving their work, where suggestions were needed, and they have enabled us to see exactly what is
possible for them to do. We are thus able to co-operate wisely and
intelligently for the same end, the most thorough preparation of students for our classes. The schools become thoroughly identified with
us in our work. When the High Schools generally in the State shall
have so far advanced that the University can establish this relation
with them, we shall have a completely graded system of substantially
free public education stretching from the primary school through the
University to the completion of a professional course.
Committees of the Faculty have this year, in compliance with invitations, visited the schools at Ann Arbor, Adrian, Jackson, Flint, Kalamazoo and Pontiac. The Faculty have voted to receive graduates this
year from all the above named schools save that at Pontiac, which has no
class ready for us this year. If the quality of the teachers in that
school next year is as good as at present, it will doubtless earn a place
by the side of the best schools. Other schools announce that they
will be prepared to invite inspection next year. Though our plan is
still subjected to some criticism, I am convinced that if it is executed
with discretion and prudence, it can be made productive of great good
to the schools, the University and the State. There is hardly any
feature of our work which seems to me more interesting than this.
THE ADMISSION OF WOMEN.
The number of women who are availing themselves of the opportunity to study at the University is nearly twice as great as it was in
year 1870-71. The number registered then was 34, viz.: 2 in the Law




200


Department, 18 in the Medical Department, and 14 in the Academic
Department. This year the number has been 64, viz.: 3 in the Law
Department, 33 in the Medical, and 28 in the Academic. These last
are distributed in the classes as follows: Seniors, 2; Sophomores, 7;
Freshmen, 13; in select courses, 6. Of those in the regular courses,
eight are Classical students, nine Latin and Scientific, and five Scientific. Five of those in the select courses are giving their attention
chiefly to scientific studies and modern languages and literature; the
sixth to classical work. Six women graduated in April with the medical
class, one with the law class, and two now graduate in the Academic
Department. In the Medical Department the women have received
instruction by themselves, except in chemistry. In the other Departments all instruction is given to) both sexes in common.
It is manifestly not wise to leap to hasty generalizations from our
brief experience in furnishing education to both sexesin our University.
But I think all who have been familiar with the inner life of the Uni
versity for the past two years, will admit that, thus far, no reason for
doubting the wisdom of the Regents' action in opening the University
to women has appeared. Hardly one of the many embarrassments
which some feared, has confronted us. The young women have addressed themselves to their work with great zeal, and have shown
themselves quite capable of meeting the demands of severe studies as
successfully as their classmates of the other sex. Their work so far
does not evince less variety of aptitude or less power of grappling
even with higher mathematics than we find in the young men.  They
receive no favors and desire none  They are subjected to precisely the
same tests as the meer.  Some of them, like the men, have stumbled
at examinations, but nearly all of them have maintained a most creditabie reputation for scholarship in every branch of study which has
awaited them in their course.  Nor does their work seem  to put a
dangerous strain upon their physical powers. They assure me that
they never enjoyed better health, and their absences by reason of sickness does not proportionately exceed those of the men. Their presence
has not called for the enactment of a single new law, or for the slightest change in our methods of government or grade of work. If we
are asked still to regard the reception of women into our classes as an
experiment, it must certainly be deemed a most hopeful experiment.
The numerous inquiries which are sent to me from various parts of
this country and even from England, concerning the results of their
admission to the University, show that a profound and wide-spread interest in the subject has been awakened. Cornell University has re



201


cently decided to open its doors to women,and it can hardly be doubted
that other conspicuous Eastern colleges will soon follow the example.
The Alumni and Trustees of at least four prominent New England
colleges are formally considering the subject.
THE MUSEUM.
Professor Winchell's report will describe in detail the additions to
our scientific collections. We have received some valuable accessions.
Especially noteworthy are the objects collected by Mr. J. B. Steere on
his expedition across the South American continent. We have already
receivtd from hin 1205 entries, 4538 specimens, and several boxes are
now on the way here. Mr. Steere, having traversed South America,
now goes to New Zealand.
A few contributions of value have been made to the Art Gallery,
the most valuable being the marble medallion portrait of the di-tinguished sculptor, Randolph Rogers, who so long resided here, and who
is represented in our gallery by two of his works, the " Nydia" and
the "Ruth Gleaning."  This medallion, friom the chisel of the sculptor
Cushing, is the gift of Hon. C. C. Trowbridge, of Detroit, who has so
often testified his deep interest in the welfare of the University.
I cannot think it untimely to direct the attention of the friends of
the University, who take a just pride in our collection of works of art,
to the importance of having a more commodious gallery constructed
with special reference to the preservation and exhibition of such works.
I am confident that if we had such a structure, fire-proof, and properly
lighted, we could easily procure every year numerous additions to our
collection. It need not at present be large or expensive. If we should
erect a new hall for our library, it might be added as a wing. It is
evident that the rooms now occupied for the purpose will soon be
needed for scientific collections. The erection of such a gallery would
do much to stimulate that study of the Fine Arts, to which we should
speedily give attention in the University.
THE LIBRARY.
It appears by the Librarian's report that the library has been
increased during the year by the addition of 883 volumes, and 181
pamphlets. Of these 249 volumes and 171 pamphlets were presented.
A hundred and seventy-four reviews, magazines and newspapers are
on the tables. Sixty-five of them are furnished by the Students'
Reading Room Association. Considerable progress has been made in
the cataloguing and binding of the Parsons Library. It is with




202


peculiar pleasure that I inform you of the thoughtful generosity of the
graduating class in making a subscription of more than $1,100 for a
library fund, the interest of which is to be appropriated to the purchase of books. There is reason to hope that this may become the
nucleus of a large fund to be given by the Alumni and other friends of
the University.
THE PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS.
Great prosperity attends both of these schools. Still greater results could be achieved by them if we could secure higher preparatory
training in the students. How to secure this is not easy to say. It is
evident, however, that the gradual and iapid elevation of the work in
our public schools is doing much to relieve the difficulty. I think the
proportion of college graduates in the law school this year was greater
than ever before, there being 61 in the class of 350. In the medical
school, however, there were only 14 in a class of equal size. This is a
subject which deserves most serious consideration. I am not prepared
at present to make any recommendations about it.
I beg, however, to express my hearty 'approval a plan proposed
by the Medical Faculty, through their Dean, for extending the course
of lectures from the present term of six months over one of nine
months, thus securing more thoroughness of instruction. The execution of the plan will, however, probably ultimately entail an additional
expense of $3,000 annually, though I am informed that the professors
would be willing to give these longer courses without additional recompense for the present, or until the treasury of the University may be
in a condition to increase their remuneration. I hope we may ere long
see our way clear to add a Dental department to our Medical school.
The increased expense would be so slight, and the patronage would
probably be so large, that it is not improbable that it could be conducted without much, if any, cost to the University.
It is of great importance that we enlarge our hospital accommodations at the earliest practicable day. The present hospital has been
of essential service to us. But the time has come for a vigorous
effort to secure through private or public benefactions a large hospital
for the treatment of special diseases, or a State hospital for the treatment of the -ick, who are now in the various alms-houses of the State.
I cannot but think that the enterprise will commend itself to the medical profession of Michigan, and to the favorable consideration of the
public.
I venture to commend the needs of the Law Library to the




203


consideration of all who are interested in the highest success of
our flourishing Law Department. This Library is the only apparatus
which this department asks to be supplied with for its large and important work. As no other department brings so large pecuniary return to the University in proportion to the expense it entails, it is but
j ust that the library be supplied with liberality. The deficiencies upon
its shelves are serious.
UNIVERSITY HALL.
University Hall, the corner stone of which was laid on last Commencement Day, has been pushed on toward completion as rapidly as
the means at our disposal would allow. Had the whole appropriation
instead of half of it been available last February, the new hall might
have been occupied for Commencement exercises this year, ard the remainder of the interior would have been now nearly completed. It is
our expectation that the lecture rooms, and perhaps the chapel, will
be ready for use at the beginning of the academic year in the coming
September. And that will not be too soon. We were much embarrassed last autumn in accommodating our large classes. It would be
impossible to find room for our students in our old recitation rooms
next year, if the coming Fre.shman class should be as large as the last.
But our new building will furnish us the needed relief. It will provide
us with eleven new lecture rooms, offices for the Regents, the President, the Faculty, and the Steward, a waiting room for the ladies, and
a spacious and elegant hall, which will contain sittings for twenty-five
hundred or more hearers. As there was no hall or church in town,
which would accommodate the audience often in attendance upon our
publicexercises, an auditorium of this kind, was almost as urgently
needed as our new lecture rooms. The most rigid economy has been
practiced in erecting the new building, but the legislative appropriation
will probably not quite suffice for its completion. May we not hope
that our generous patron, the State of Michigan, to which we are indebted for the means of carrying the structure so near to its completion, will furnish us the little that is now r quired to finish the work?
University Hall with its front of 347 feet, and its dome rising to a
height of 140 feet from the ground, is one of the most imposing college edifices in the land.
It would add greatly to the interest of the services in the new
chapel, and of many of the exercises to be held in the large hall, if
these rooms were furnished with organs of suitable size. They are so
obviously needed that we cannot but hope that some friend of the
2




204


University may -urnish them to us. I have ascertained on inquiry
that in Germany two organs suitable for these halls respectively, can
be prLocured for about $3,000.
OUR NEEDS.
A prosperous institution of education always desires and generally
needs some things which it has not. We are fulfilling that condition
of prosperity. Our very successes compel us to ask for the means of
achieving higher success.  Our enlarged  numbers, the constant
elevation of our scale of study, the widening range of instruction
in all the better colleges and universities of the country, are calling for
larger facilities and larger work in this institution.
Our rapidly increasing classes imperatively demand an increase in
the number of our instructors, even if we do not expand the range of
our work at all. I think we greatly need another instructor at once in
the rhetorical department, who should teach elocution and do some
rhetorical work with the Freshmen and Sophomore classes, both of which
should have more practice in writing under critical direction.
The Professor of History also requires help in conducting his numerous classes. One instructor might perhaps for the present be employed to divide his labors between these two departments.
We should also have, at an early day, a Professor to give instruction in Political Economy, Political Philosophy, and International JLaw.
The very brief course in Political Economy has been conducted by the
Professor of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy, who would prefer to
confine himself to his own special work, and it has not been offered at
all to the classical students. I have this year given twenty familiar lectures on International Law to about two-thirds of the Senior class. But
provision should be made by which every student should be able to
take a generous course in the Political Sciences.
I have already spoken of the importance of a gallery for works of
Art.
A large and well appointed gymnasium would in my opinion be of
great service, especially during that large part of the year in which outdoor games cannot be resorted to for exercise. I believe that the
moral, as well as the physical effect, would be salutary and marked.
But there is another and greater need which cannot long remain
disregarded without serious detriment to our good name. We must
have the means of enlarging the facilities for certain kinds of scientific
work, or peril our honorable position among the better institutions of
the land, and come short of our duty and opportunity as a University




205


Our deficiencies are most marked in our rrovisions for instruction in
Mechanical and Mining Engineering, Physics, Metallurgy, and Assaying, though our means of illustration in Civil Engineering and in Zoology are not adequate to our needs.
The Professors, by their assiduity and ability, have done excellent
work with the means at their command. But the kind and amount of
work in these branches, which were satisfactory a few years ago, are no
longer so. Larger attainments pre desired by an increasing number of
students who are training themselves for the actual technical application of some of the sciences, or for chairs of instruction in science.
Nearly all the stronger colleges have been vigorously striving for the
last few years to meet this acknowledged demand for more extended
training in science, and several schools have been founded, with large
endowments, for the sole purpose of imparting that sort of instruction.
I desire to commend to the careful attention of the friends of the
University, the report which Prof. Wood, Professor of Civil Engineering made on this subject tothe Regents at their March meeting. He
estimates that the cost of such a building as we need for enlarged scientific work, and the requisite apparatus, and of the endowment of the
new Professorships required, will be $373,500. Whether that plan or
some other is adopted to secure the end, at least that sum of mon:.y
will be needed, and half a million of dollars could be used without extravagance. Is there n-ot so'Iec citizen of Micihiga':n who will leave on
our grounds an enduring monument to his memory: and a fountain of
perpetual blessing to the State and the nation, by founding such a departuent and erecting such a building?
But the execution of' such a, plan is the work of tinie. Some of
the minor wants, however, in these branches of work,_ought to be supplied at once.
The department of Physics is in pressing need of apparatus. The
Adjunct Professor asks for a modlerate appropriation, which I hope
can be furnished at this session.
Proafssor Winchell's department (Geology, Zoology and Botany,)
needs thorough reorganization and expansion, at an early day, in accordance with suggestions in a report fiom him, which I herewith submit.. But lie should,ave at once an Assistant to aid in giving instruction. I recommend that Mr. M.W. Harrington, who has been proved
to be a capable scholar and instructor in that department, be named
Instructor in of Geology, Zo)lo-y and Botany. I think that the
employment of a taxidermist, who can be procured for a small sum,
would be economical for the University.




206
But after all, our first and greatest need is such an increase in our
revenue as will enable us to meet the deficit with which we are threatened at the close of the next fiscal year. While we seem to be absolutely under the necessity of increasing our expenses, we find ourselves
confronted with the stern fact that our income must be less after next
June than it has been for the last two years. I believe that it will be
difficult to find a college in the land in which more work is returned
for every dollar of outlay. The most careful economy is employed in
every department. The most searching scrutiny upon this point may
be challenged. May we not then look with confident expectation of
relief from our impending embarrassment to the generosity of the State,
which has never failed to appreciate and supply our most pressing
wants?
A P P       N D I X.
REPORTS
From the Deans of the Professional Schools, and from the Professors
of the Academic Faculty.
I.
REPORT FROM PROF. SAGER, DEAN OF THE MEDICAL FACULTY.
To the President of the University:
SIR,-At your suggestion I herewith submit a brief report of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery, for the academic year 1871-2.
The session comprises a period of six months, from October 1st
to March 28th, during which period, with the exception of a recess of
a week during the holidays, four lectures per week are given to each
of the medical classes, male and female, in separate lecture rooms,
and as nearly as practicable, with the following distribution of subjects, viz.:
Anatomy and Physiology, eight lectures per week. Chemistry,
Organic and Inorganic, eight lectures per week. Materia Medica and
Therapeutics, eight lectures Ditto.  Surgery, Civil and Military,
eight lectures Ditto. Obstetrics, Gyncecology, and Pecdiotrics, eight
lectures. Theory and Practice of Medicine, eight lectures. Opthalmology, two lectures per week, half the term.




207
Beside these courses of didactic instruction, clinical lectures were
delivered for three hours on every Saturday, upon Surgery and Practice, with numerous operations, and practical demonstrations.
Students were also permitted to witness operations at the Hospital, upon patients that could not be brought before the class, and to
examine patients, and witness the treatment, in both the male and
female wards of the Hospital.
In addition to the didactic and clinical teaching, frequent oral
examinations were held by different members of the Faculty during
the evenings, and an occasional examination upon medical topics, of
the senior class, in writing, to test their literary as well as medical
scholarship.
The afternoon was chiefly occupied in the Anatomical and Chemical Laboratories, a very large proportion of the students taking the
courses in both Practical Anatomy and Chemistry.
The entire number of students attending the School was three
hundred and fifty, and 92 classes in Practical Anatomy were formed.
In the Chemical Laboratory, 195, or about three-fifths of the class,
engaged in the study of Practical Chemistry.
A separate course of about fifteen exercises was given, chiefly to
the senior class, in Physical Diagnosis.
II.
REPORT FROM PROF. COOLEY, IN BEHALF OF THE LAW
FACULTY.
To the President of the University:
SIR,-On behalf of the Department of Law, I respectfully submit:
That its work for the last year presents no new or noticeable features. The attendance of students has been fully equal to the average of recent years; the steady increase of new schools not appearing
as yet to affect this Department in any appreciable degree. The number upon whom the degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred was
in advance of that of any former year, and we notice some improvement in the average preparation of those who seek instruction here.
Of the wants of the Department I believe you are fully sensible, the
chief being a considerable increase to the Library, and some provision for a permanent librarian. These wants we trust the Regents
will supply as speedily and as completely as the means at their command will allow. With a larger attendance of students than at any
other Law School in the country, we yet have an exceedingly meager




20~


and insufficient libraly, and in consequence feel our inability to do
full justice to those who place themselves under our instruction.
III.
REPORT OF S. H. DOUGLASS, PR9FESSOR           OF CHEMISTRY,
AND DIRECTOR OF CHEMICAL LABORATORY.
To the President of the University:
SIR,-It gives me great pleasure to report that the Chemical Department has. in the past year, had the usual degree of prosperity.
The number of students, particularly in the higher branches of applied chemistry, has materially increased. It is true;he, number of
candidates recommended in Pharmacy is small. This arises from the
more exactingo terms of graduation instituted. The course in Pharmacy is accomplishing all its most sanguine friends could have anticipated, and I hope will prove a credit to the University: and a great
benefit to the country at large.
I submit the following exhibit of the number of students in the
various courses in the Laboratory of Applied Chemistry:
Whole number of students, (1871-2,)....     267
Number of weeks of total attendance,.... 3081
Number of students from Medical Department,..     195
" "      "  Pharmacy    "...    43
r'        "          "  Actdemical  '...      29
~     ';  "Seniors,   ("       '..      15
"         '" Ladies,.....      27
Number of artanu'ed courses of Ltboratory work,..     9
"l     students in Abridged Analysis,...     142
"b        "      Qualitative  "...   60
""      "      Quantitative  '..           31
i"        "      Toxicology,....   18
"         "      Urology,....     143
4"   "           Phar. Manip.,....   22
"         l'     Determinative Mineralogy,..       5
i"        '      Assaying,....    2.<..      Organic Analysis,.       7
The following is an exhibit of the Lectures and Class Drills in
the various courses:
Lectures on Chemical Physics and Inorganic Chemistry, to the
Medical Class, four times per week, from Oct. 1st to Feb. 1st, by Prof.
Douglass.
Lectures on Toxicology, to the Medical Class, once a week from
Feb. 1st to March 28th, by Prof. Douglass.
Lectures on Organic Chemistry, to Medical Class, three times per
week from Feb. 1st to March 25th, by Prof. Prescott.
Lectures on Chemical Physics and Inorganic Chemistry, to Junior




209


(Academical) Class, daily from Feb. 12th to Mlay 1st, by Prof. Douglass.
Lectures on vletallurgy, to Senior Mining Enginleers, from Feb.
12th to May 1st, by Prof. Prescott.
Lectures on Pharmacy, to the Class in Pharmacy, daily from Jan.
1st to June 15th, by Prof. Prescott.
Lectures on Analytical Chemistry, to the Laboratory Class, twice
a week during most of the year, the subject being repeated three
times, for students commencing in Laboratory, by Prof. Prescott.
Class )rills, half hour daily, in Chemical Reactions, from  Oct.
1st to March 20th, by Dr. Rose.
Class Drills in Toxicology and Urology, twice a week, from Oct.
1st to June 15th, by Dr. Rose.
IV.
RE ORT OF MR. A. WINCHELL, PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY,
ZOOLOGY, AND BOTANY.
To the President of the University:
The instruction in the elements of Botany has been given i.o a
class of about two hundred, consisting of the whole body of freshmen
and the senior students of the Department of Pharmacy, besides a
considerable number from the Sophomore, Junior and Senior classes
who had entered the University after the Freshman year, rlnd other
students purisuing select courses. In so large a class, very little attention could be paid to individuals. The method pursued has been, to
procure each day a supply of living specimens of two (sometimes
three) species of plants, placing one specimen of each in the hands of
each student. With specimens before them, I have then proceeded to
point out such characters as the plant presents, and thus to introduce,
and at the same time to illustrate, such technical terms as the plant
suggested-cdwellingt particularly on the more fundamental characters
of the natural orders. The class has then been conducted systematically through the analytical tables, to the specific determination. By
this means, an expertne:s has been acquired in a branch of the study
very generally omitted in colleges, but which, according to my observation, must be attained before a student can feel such an impulse as
is at all likely to carry him forward to ulterior attainments. On frequent occasions, remarks have been made, connecting together and
generalizing observations, with the special view of developing the
laws of vegetable growth, the methods of the science, and the practical applications of its principles. The class has also been required to




210


read a text-book. Under my advice and direction, 24 herbaria have
been prepared by students, averaging about 50 species each. The care
and intelligence shown by the collectors has been unusually gratifying.
The instruction in Zoology has been given to the Scientific Juniors and ten Seniors electing the study, select students, members of
the medical, pharmaceutical and law departments, and resident graduates. It has consisted of: 1. A series of familiar lectures and commentaries on topics suggested by the text-books; 2. Formal lectures
on classification, structure and biology, illustrated by diagrams; 3.
Microscope demonstrations; 4. Work and instruction in the laboratory. The laboratory-work has been carried through the year, and
has been participated in chiefly by Seniors and resident graduates. It
has consisted largely in the detailed study of specific forms. The outlines of Ornithology, Mammalogy, Ophidology, Ichthyology, Conchology and Entomology have thus been pursued, besides Comparative Osteology and Palieontology. Several students, also, have made
special study of the manipulation of microscopes. The material used
in the laboratory has consisted of series of specimens in the several
classes of animals, selected for the use of students, and, after these,
the entire contents of the zoological museum, with due restrictions
demanded by the safety of the specimens. Most of the work done in
the laboratory should properly be ranked as belonging to higher
zol5ogy.
The instruction in Geology has consisted chiefly of two courses to
the Seniors. 1. A course of eight weeks in Lithological Geology, in
which most of the time has been devoted to the actual study and discussion of specimens. Our locality is peculiarly rich in lithological
varieties, obtained, of course, from northern boulders. After the
study of labeled specimens, which are passed around the class for
each one's critical inspection, sets of specimens collected by students,,are similarly passed, each with its proper label, prepared on the occacasion. About two sets, aggregating about 100 specimens, are passed
eacli day. These labeled seth go afterwards into the possession of the
collectors, to serve as standards for future use. Fifty of our 86 seniors have thus been provided with small cabinets of labeled specimens.
Actual records show that the class of 1872 collected 2,177 lithological
specimens, which were thus labeled and left in their hands. Some
hundreds were also labeled in the laboratory. In Historical Geology,
the instruction has consisted of two courses of lectures-the first, of
21, somewhat familiar and technical; the second, of 14, presenting
rather the grand generalizations of the science. These have been
illustrated by charts, blackboard diagrams, and specimens. A text



211


book has also been read. Written exercises of one to four foolscap
pages, have been required of the class, on topics assigned; and several
elaborate theses have been presented.
It would be an unjustifiable omission should I fail to call your
attention, as I have several times called that of your predecessors, to
the fact that all this instruction to more than 300 students, (300, the
past semester,) in three grand departments of science, has been given
by one professor, in addition to his labors upon the Museum; and
that anything in the nature of " drill," upon which so much depends
in other branches of science and literature, has been quite inmpracticable, aind all its advantlages have therefore been lost to this departme:lt. There is no need of amplifying upon this suggestion; and I
conclude with the expression of renewed hope that the Board of Regents may discover the means of reinforcing my chair in a measure
somewhat commensurate with the marvelous growth of our classes,
and the generous and appreciative examples set by the best colleges
and universities of the country.
V.
REPORT FROMI De VJLSON WOOD, PROFESSOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
June 30th, 1872. 
To the President of the University:
SIR, —I respectfully submit the following report of the labors in
the Department of Engineering during the past year:
I had no exercises with the Freshman Class. The Scientific Section of the Sophomore Class took up Land Surveying at the beginning
of the year, and continued the study for nine consecutive weeks. The
class consisted of forty-five students, and was divided into two sections
for class-room exercises, and each of these into two more sections for
field exercises. I conducted the class-room exercises, which consisted
of recitations from Gillespie's Land Surveying and of familiar Lectures
upon the subject. The class went over all the subjects of the textbook, with the exception of a few unimportant problems in parting off
and dividing up land.
The field exercises were conducted by Prof. J. Burkett Webb, my
assistant at that time, who was assisted by Prof: P. R. B. De Pont. The
object of these exercises is not to make expert surveyors, but to lay a
proper foundation for those who desire to become such, and to teach
to all, in a practical way, the principles which are involved. Each stu



212


dent is required to do every part of the work for himself. He uses the
axe, chains, carries the flag, uses the compass, the transit, and the theodolite computes his work fromn his field notes, and makes a plat of it,
and reports the result to the Professor in charge. Neatness and accuracy are insisted upon in these reports. The Instructor accompanies the
parties in the field, and directs and criticises their work, and teaches
them how to perform  the several operations which are required of
them. There was one lady in the class, who performed all the operations in the field and class-room the sa:ine as the gentlemen. Her deportment and scholarship were such as secured for her the respect of
all her classmates on all occasions. She was relieved from what might
otherwise have been an embarrassment in the field work, by the attendance of her brother, who was in the same class.
Imniediately after finishing the subject of Land Surveying, the
class took up the subject of Geometrical Drawing, Tinting and Shading, usil g Warren's Drafting Instruments and Warren's Plane Projection Drawing as text-books. The students are required to work two
hours each day in this subject, in the drawing room, under the supervision of the Instructor. As I had no assistant at this time, I was
obliged to conduct the exercises. Besides the drawing, they were required to learn the theory, and attend occasional recitations and reviews. This course extended over the second half of the first semester.
During tile last half of the second semester, the Scientific and
Latin Scientific Sections of the Sophomore Class pursued the subject
of Descriptive Geometry (Davies'). The former section was taught
during the advance by Prof. Du Pont, and the latter by Instructor
Charles H. Denison, who had been secured temporarily as my assistant.
I conducted the review and examinations, besides attending the daily
recitations frequently. I am pleased to state that both Instructors did
their work well. These classes took nearly all the problems to Warped
Su r hces.
The Scientific and Latin Scientific Sections of the Junior Class
pursued the subjects of Shades and Shadows (Warren's), and of Linear
Perspective (Warren's), during the whole of the first semester, excepting the first six weeks, under my immediate supervision. The recitations occupied one hour once a week, and the drawing exercises two
hours each day for four days of the week. Nearly all the drawing was
done in the drawing room, although some students were permitted to
draw in their own rooms during a portion of the time. In addition to
the figures in the text-book, they were required to construct the Perspective of objects from measurement, and no one was allowed to pass
who could not construct his Thesis correctly and tint and shade it
neatly.




213


During tle last half of the second semester, the Latin Scientific
Juniors, and such members of the Classicl Section as chose it, pursued
the subject of Lan I Surveying, which was pursued to the same extent
and in the same way as described above for the Scientific Section
of the Sophomore Class. The class was divided into two sections
of 17 each. I conducted the exercises in the class room, and Mr. Denison the exercises in the field.
During a portion of the second semester, I gave a Course of Lectures to tile Senior and Junior classes in Civil Engineering, on the subject of Mechanical Engineering. My plan has been to combine these
classes, and give to them a course of lectures which extends over a portion of two years, alternating the lectures on the successive years.
During the past year the lectures were chiefly upon the principles of
steam engines of various kinds, but there were a few lectures upon the
p'iuciples of Designing Machinery, Pattern Making, Moulding, and
Shop Work. A part of the course consists in exercises in Machine
Drawing, and the class made working drawings of an invention of lmy
own, from which a working machine has since been constructed.
In the course of tlhese lectures I introduced a novel mode of instruction, in. order to exercise their inventive faculties  I assigned to them
a problem, the character of which I was certain they were not familiar
with, and asked them to solve it, make a drawing to represent their
idea, accompany it with a specification, and report it to me. As soon
as all had solved it who were able to, I reviewed their solutions and
criticised them before the class, indicating the valuable points as well as
the objection,: ble features. The following may serve as an example:After describing the construction and operation of the ordinary D
valve, and showing particularly tlat in order to open a port so as to
reverse the stroke of the piston, the valve, up to the point of opening
the port, is moving in the opposite direction from the piston, I asked
the class to invent such can arcrangement of parts as that the valve would
open the port correctly if it moved the same oay as the piston. In this
way nearly all the working parts of the steam engine were considered,
and problems assigned which involved modifications. The problems
were simple, and were intended as a means of instruction, ai.d not as
puzzles. In their solution they not only became familiar with what
exists, but also learned other possible ways of accomplishing the same
end, and in connection with the criticisms, learned why a particular
combination was used. In a class of thirty there would often be fifteen
or twenty different solutions; but sometimes there would not be more
than five or six different ones. The Class also read all that part of
Warren's "Machine Construction Drawing" which pertained especially to the steam engine.




214


After Class Day the Junior's took up Railroad Surveying.
At the beginning of the year the Senior class in Civil Engineering
began the theory and practice of the construction of Roads and Railroads, using Henck's Field-Book for Engineers and Gillespie's Roads
and Railroads. I also gave a course of Lectures upon the construction of engineering instruments, and the modes of adjusting them, and
upon numerous subjects connected with the construction of roads and
railroads.  The students are not only required to use the instruments
in the field, but also to adjust them. They are required to do all the
preliminary work of laying out a railroad.  They begin with a reconnoissance, then they survey the line, locating it, re-survey it, take the
levels and establish a grade, set the side stakes, compute cuts and fills,
and make a finished map of the line including the profile. Following
these was a course of instruction upon the Resistance of Materials (using
my own work as a text-book) and a course of lectures upon the Theory
of Bridge Construction; the Theory of Hydraulic Motors; the
Theory of the Distribution of Water in cities and other Mechanical
problems. I have sought to be as thorough and critical in my Lectures
upon Bridges as time would permit, not only on account of the vast
importance of the subject at the present day, but also on account of the
discipline which the students will derive from such a treatment of the
subject, enabling them to manage more successfully the numerous mechanical problems which they will inevitably meet in their practice,
but which it is impossible to anticipate.
The lecture system, however, is a comparatively slow one, and I would
not resort to it exclusively in the treatment of any topic if I could
find satisfactory text books upon it. The most satisfactory way is to use
a good text-book for the greater part of the work, and then criticise,
approve and expand upon its contents by familiar lectures. But at the
present day the information sought is often scattered throughout many
books which would cost a large sum to purchase. I have, therefore, in
this particular part of the course preferred to lecture, endeavoring thereby to develop a systematic course, and interest the student in reading
references. In this way the students become familiar with many authors.
By consulting with the librarian, I find that there had been a large
amount of reading in the library in connection with these references.
But partly   with a view  to facilitate instruction  in this
line, and partly to add something to this class of literature that will be
profitable to others, I am preparing my lectures upon Bridges and Roofs
for publication, and I trust that they will be ready for use early next
year.
I have also given a course of about thirty lectures to one student on
Mining Engineering. This course pertained to those engineering opera



215


tions which are necessary in the process of mining, and was intended, in
addition to the course in civil engineering, to cover all the ground that
is necessary in order to enable the engineer to conduct such operations
in a scientific manner.
The instruction in Metallurgy and Assaying is given in another
department.
My labors the past year have been unusually onerous, not only on
account of the great variety of the subjects of which I have had charge,
but also on account of the manv hours which I had to spend in the class
room in order that the classes should not suffer for want of proper attention. During five months of the year I had no assistance excepting
three weeks during which time Mr. J. B. Davis, of the class of 1868,
taught a few classes.
It was a source of regret to me and to several others, that the active
opposition by one who had no personal interest in the matter
on technical grounds only, resulted in defeating the appointment as Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering of so competent
and mature a man as Prof. Webb. He left early in the year to take
the Professorship of Civil Engineering in the Industrial University of
Illinois. The result of this action, the manner in which it was secured,
and the consequences which followed, determined my future course.
I have thus closed fifteen years of continuous labor in the University, and have seen my own department grow gradually in numbers
and strength from year to year; but it falls far below what it ought to
be in every respect. I have stated some of its wants in a special report
upon this subject.   The large and commodious rooms which
will be provided in the new building, and the ample assistance
which is now provided for the coming year furnish some advantages
which have not been heretofore possessed. According to present indications the next graduating class in Civil Engineering will be larger
than any that we have ever had.
VI.
REPORT OF MR. J. C. WATSON, PRQFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY
AND DIRECTOR OF THE OBSERVATORY.
To the President of the University:
In reply to your request for information in regard to the work
done in my department during the past year, I have the honor to submit the following statement:
I have given instruction daily during the entire year, to a class,
composed of Seniors and resident graduates, in Theoretical Astrono



216
my. During the second semester I have given the usual instruction
to the entire Junior Class in Descriptive and Physical Astronomy,
and to the Engineering Class in Practical Astronomy, and in addition
to this, daily instruction in Mathematical Astronomy to a class coimposed of Juniors who have elected this study.
My work at the Observatory has consisted, in addition to the usual
routine observations, in the continuation of the observations of small
stars near the ecliptic, upon which I have been engaged for many
years. These observations have resulted, during the past year, in the
discovery of three new planets, situated between Mars and Jupiter,
as follows:
The first wais discovered on the Gth of August, 1871, and I have
selected for it the nanme Thyra, from the Scandinavian mythology,
and in honor of the Kiing of Denmark, a member of whose family
bears the same name.
The second was discovered on the 3d of April, 1872, and the third
on the 12th of Mlay, 1872. 1 have not yet selected names for these
planets, and in doing so I shall endeavor, if possible, to make a selection from the mythology of the North American Indians.
These discoveries have been confirmed at other observatories, both
in this country and in Europe.
My work upon the Lunar Theory has progressed well during the
year. Messrs. Kintner, Edgerton, Burton, Ritter, Baker, and Chute,
all graduates of the University, have been engaged in computations,
under my direction, the expense of which has been defrayed by the
United States Coast Survey.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
VII.
REPORT OF MR. EDWARD OLNEY, PROFESSOR OF MATIHE
MATICSo
To the President of the Universty:
SIR,-At your request, I hereby submit a brief statement concerning the department of Ptare Mathematics in the University, during the past year.
The instructors in this department have been, in addition to the
Professor in charge, two instructors the entire year, and one for 25
weeks.
About 230 students (including those received on diplomas from
accepted schools, and those for advanced classes,) have been examined




217


for admission. I do not know the exact number rejected, but it is
somewhat less than the difference between this number and the number of Freshmen reported in the Calendar (168), as 15 or 20 have been
passed into higher classes.
Instruction has been givent t he entire Freshman Class (168 students), in Algebra and Geometry, and to the Scientific section in
Trigonometry; to the entire Sophomore Class (97 students), in Trigonometry, the Scientific section taking only Spherical; to all of this
class in General (Analytical) Geometry, and to 16 Scientific students
and 40 Latin and Scientific, in the Calculus. Twenty-five Junior
Civil Engineers have received instruction in the higher General Geomet:y and Calculus, and several resident graduates have also pnrsued these topics. There have therefore been 290 students in all who
have received instruction in this department during the year.
The Freshmen were divided into 8 sections, for daily cl.:s drill
under two instructors. These sections were met by myself about
once each week, for review and careful examination upon the work of
the week. At these reviews, two sections were combined into one.
The work in the Classical and Latin and Scientific sections of the
Sophomore Clpss, was done for the first senmester much as in the
Freshman Class. There were three sections for daily class drill, under an instructor, the work being reviewed by myself weekly.
The Scientific section of the Sophomore Class, and 40 students
from the Classical and Latin and Scientific sections electing Calculus,
as well as the Junior Civil Engineers, have been under my own instruction.
This plan of work was new. It devolved much more labor and
responsibility upon the head of the department, but it also secured
more uniformity of method, better personal acquainltance, on my own
part, with all the members of these classes, and far more class exercise of each pupil. It has worked to my entire satisfaction thus far.
I am confident that though we have always been exceedingly fortunate in the chl.racter of the instructors secured for the Freshman
Class in Mathematics, the work has never been better done than this
year. True, there were more than the ordinary proportion of "conditionecd students at the semi-annual examinations. But this by no
means signified a lower grade of attainment in the class. This has
never been higher.
I trust the plan will be continued, and ask the continuance of lhe
same insiructors for the Freshman Class, at the same rates. For the
Sophomore work, I would recommend that Prof. I. N. Demmon be
secured for the entire year. The increased number of students in the
Sophomore Class will demand this, and will also demand that some




218


change in the order of studies be effected, so as to distribute the labor
in my department more uniformly through the year. As it nowV is,
all the instructors are overworked for the first two-thirds of the year,
and have not full work the last part. I think this can be easily remedied, and that with three instructors, as above, the work can be done
with increasing satisfaction to all concerned.
VIII.
REPORT OF MR. C. K. ADAMS, PROFESSOR OF HISTORY.
To the President of the University:
SIR,-On the study of History as pursued in the University during
the past year, I beo leave to present the following report:
I. AMOUNT OF TIME DEVOTED TO THE STUDY.
To students of the Freshman Class in the Classical Department,
instruction has been given in Ancient History by the Professors of
Greek and Latin. This instruction has amounted to one lesson per
week during the whole of the freshman year. The text-books used
have been Smith's History of Greece, and Liddell's History of Rome,
and the periods to which the study has been devoted embrace Grecian
History from the First Olympiad to the end of the Peloponesian War,
and Roman History from the foundation of the city the First Punic
War. Students of the Latin and Scientific Course have pursued Roman History only. The historical studies of the Scientific Section of
the Freshman Class were pursued under the direction of the Professor of History. To this work the Class devoted one daily lIsson
during the first semester. The period studied embraced the history of
the Asiatic nations and of Greece and Rome to the Fall of the Western Empire, Rawlinson's Manual of Ancient History being the textbook used.
In the second semester of the Sophomore year, Classical students
and Latin and Scientific students have the option of studying Calculus or Modern History. About one-half of the Class of the current
year elected the latter, and pursued the history of Europe from the
beginning of the Reformation to the death of Queen Anne. To this
work twelve weeks were devoted, the Class having five lessons per
week. The Scientific section of the same Class also had Modern History during half of the second semester.
In the course of the Junior year an attempt is made to acquaint
the student with the more difficult period of Medieval History, and




219


with the Philosophy of History. The books relied upon for this purpose are chiefly Hallam's Middle Ages, and Guizot's History of Civilization. All the members of the present Junior Class, with the exception of students of Civil Engineering, have devoted to this work
five lessons per week during six weeks of the first semester, and during nine weeks of the second semester.
In the Senior year the historical studies are for the most part
elective. The only work required is of students of the Scientific and
of the Latin and Scientific courses, during two-fifths of the second
semester. This time is devoted to a study of the Constitutional History of the United States. In addition to this, there is an opportunity
to continue the study by electing it for the remainder of the semester.
During the whole of the first semester, history is also offered as an
elective study to students of all the courses. Members of the present
Senior Class who elected history, devoted the first semester to the
study of English Constitutional History, and the second to the Constitution of the United States in comparison with the most important
political Constitutions of ancient and modern nations.
The following table will show, in the way of summation, tile
amount of history which is required, as well as the amount which may
be elected. The figures indicate the number of lectures and recitations:


CL..   L. & Sc. Civ. ENG.
Co   E.COURSE. COURSE COURSE.
06 _4,.: 7 '  'a  r.0;
Freshman Year,..   36 36 90 90 18 18 90    90
Sophomore "..    00     45 45 00 06 45   45
Junior    "..  775 30 30 30 7     00  00
Senior..     00 180 35 180 35 18  00  90
Total in Courses,..  ll 351 200 345 83 333 135 225
=~~~~~~o _4.3. 22




220
II. AMOUNT OF TIME GIVEN TO THE WORK OF INSTRUCTION.
The size of the classes now in the University, and the present arrangement of historical studies, demand that the work of instruction
shall be divided as follows:
First Semester. Seniors in four divisions, each division having
two exercises of one hour each per week. Juniors in two divisions,
each division having one exercise per day during six weeks. Freshmen in two divisions, each division having one daily exercise during
the whole of the semester.
Second Semester. Seniors, (Scientific, and Latin and Scientific
sections,) one daily exercise two-fifths of the semester. Other members of the same Class arranged in four divisions, each division having
two hours per week. Junior Class in two divisions, during one-half
of the semester, each division having a daily exercise. Sophomore
Class, (Scientific section,) one daily exercise during half the semester.
Members of the same Class (Classical and Latin and Scientific Courses) electing history, one daily exercise during twelve weeks.
Thus the amount of instruction demanded by the present arrangement of historical studies, and by the present size of our classes, is
somewhat more than four hours per day during the entire year. I
need hardly call your attention to the fact that it is impossible for a
single officer to fulfil these demands. The impossibility becomes more
apparent when it is observed that the courses of instruction embrace
ancient history as well as modern, constitutional history as well as
political, and that a very considerable portion of the instruction,
especially to the higher classes, must be given in the form of lectures.
The services of an assistant, therefore, who can give to the work of
instruction in history at least two hours per day, I deem indispensable
to the future interests of students pursuing historical studies.
III. CHANGES INTRODUCED DURING THE YEAR.
Ever since my observation of the methods pursued in Europe, I
have desired to introduce into the historical courses of the University
of Michigan something akin to the Historische Gesellschoft of the German universities. At the beginning of the past year a favorable opportunity seemed to present itself. After consultation with the President of the University, and with the Faculty of our Department, I
met the members of.the Senior Class and explained the purpose of
the experiment. It was found that twenty-seven members of the




221


Class desired to take an extended course of historical study, even in
addition to the regular work of the senior year. After this expression the Faculty decided to place history among the elective studies.
It was determined that the work of the semester should be devoted to the study of the Growth of the British Constitution. Twelve
questions, embracing topics of most importance from the period of
the Saxons to the Reform of 1832, were given to the Class, together
with numerous references to the best authorittes in the University
Library. The Class was divided into sections of from  six to ten
members each, in order that the work of each member might, as far
as possible, be under the direction of the Professor. Each section
came together once a week for a session of two hours, when one of
the members was required to read a carefully prepared essay on the
question before them, and each of the other members was called
upon to give the results of his own study of the same subject. In
this manner the Class gained a good knowledge of the leading events
in the growth of the English Constitution, and, what was perhaps of
scarcely less importance, acquired a more or less intimate acquaintance with the best works that have been written on the civil and political history of the Anglo-Saxon race.
In the second semester the same course was pursued in studying
the constitutional history of our own country. The topics assigned
embraced not only the Constitution of the United States, but also a
comparison of its chief characteristics with those of other leadling
political constitutions. both ancient and modern. These discussions,
of course, took the Class into a somewhat general study of the fundamental principles of political philosophy.
The success of the experiment was greater than could have been
anticipated. The enthusiasm of the students, in investigating the
various subjects assigned was worthy of all commendation. I have
no hesitation in saying that of the historical wolrk done in the University under my direction, that of the graduating class, pursued in
the method described, has been the most satisfactory. Though the
organization of the Class has added very largely to the amount of instruction demanded, I cannot but think that the enthusiasm and the success with which the historical studies of the year have been pursued,
fully demonstrate the practicability and the wisdom of this method
of instruction.




222


IX.
REPORT OF MR. M. C. TYLER, PROFESSOR OF THE ENGLISH
LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE.
To the President of the University:
SIR:-I have the honor to present to you the following report for
the Department of the English Language and Literature during the
year 1871-2:
I. THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
This study was pursued during the first twelve weeks of the second semester by the scientific section of the Freshman Class, with
whom, also, were several Sophomores, select students, and members
of the Law Department. The great object in view in the instruction
given was to develop in the students a loyalty to our own language,
and an ambition to be accurate in the use of it; and then to show
them exactly what they were to do in order to acquire this accuracy. It
may, indeed, seem a humble task for the University to be engaged in,
when I report that the study referred to grapples with those lowly
topics which properly belong to the common school, namely, spelling,
pronunciation, etymology, syntax and punctuation.  Certainly, it
would be agreeable to me were I able to take for granted a universal
acquaintance with tl ese elementary subjects, and to direct my classes
into the higher fields of English philology. I have thought it best to
be guided by actual facts rather than by ambitious wishes, and to selecte he topics in this study according to the real needs of the students
themselves. The lectures were conversational in style. The students
took in the lecture room copious notes, which they afterwards copied
carefully into books; and these books were submitted for my inspection at the final examination. There was, also, each day an examination on the preceding lecture. Moreover, the members of the class
aided me in bringing forward examples for criticism under the several topics discussed; and great interest was manifested by the students in these criticisms, in which they were encouraged to take part
freely.
The lectures and lessons in this course were 45 in number.
II. ENGLISH LITERATURE.
The lectures upon this subject were attended by the entire Sophomore Class, by seven members of the Junior Class, by several students
pursuing selected studies, and by a few members of the Law Department; and the lecture room was always so crowded as to be rather
uncomfortable.




223
Ten lectures were given upon the fourteenth century, nine upon the
fifteenth century, and four upon the sixteenth century; and upon these
lectures twelve separate recitations were held. The time occupied was
the last half of the Second Semester.
I am far from satisfied with any method yet hit upon for teaching
English Literature to students like ours. Perhaps the most serious
difficulty grows out of the vastness of English Literature, the multiplicity of the facts-historical, biographical and bibliographicalwhich are involved in it, and the difficulty of interesting young people in critical estimates of books which they have never before seen
or even heard of. When it is considered that English Literature
means the literature of the English-speaking race, and includes (a)
the literature of England for six centuries, (b) the literature of Scotland for six centuries, (c) the literature of Ireland for at least two
centuries, (d) the literature of America for three centuries, and (e)
the literature of Canada, Australia and other British dependencies for
periods varying from half a century to a century and a half, it be
comes evident that a scholarly inspection of the whole territory of
English Literature is impossible in the time allotted to this study in
the University; and that the only course to be taken lies in the choice
of some section of this vast domain, and in concentrating attention
upon that. The section chosen by me this year was the fourteenth,
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries of the literature of England.
It is my intention next year to take up, in a similar manner, the
literature of America, and perhaps to shift the field of view with each
succeeding class.
As to the method of instruction in English Literature, I have.
anxiously considered the question as between teaching by formal lectures and teaching by a text-book, and have hitherto inclined to the
former plan. If I were able to receive the students in this work at a
later period of their course, when they had attained more intellectual
discipline, more literary culture, and more knowledge of history and
of books, I should have no doubt about the wisdom of this preference.
I have at times this year been disturbed by the presence at my lectures of a few persons apparently without any appreciation of the
literary qualities of any author who could be brought under notice,
and as yet quite unqualified for instruction in any other form than
that of the primary school. Yet I must also acknowledge that in the
course just given I have been cheered by manifestations of great interest on the part of the majority of my large class, by their polite
and steady attention, by their zeal and accuracy in taking notes and
in transcribing them afterwards with greater fulness, and in the ex



224


cellence of their preparation for the recitations upon the lectures, and
for the final examination.
All that can be hoped for in this study is to give our students a
good start; and that signifies not only some knowledge of the subject,
but the awakening of a real love for it. I trust that something worth
the while has been done in this direction this year.
I append a copy of the examination paper just used in English
Literature:
1. Reasons for beginning the history of English Literature with
Chaucer.
2. The Vision of Piers Ploughman: its author and his life: its
poetic form: its plan.
3. John Gower: the facts of his life: his learning: the names of
his three large works.
4   Chaucer: the two principal biographies of him: sketch of his
life: his several prose works: classification of his poetical works: plan
of the Canterbury Tales: on what historical event the pilgrimage to
Canterbury was founded.
5. The three languages in use in Chaucer's time: names of his
literary contemporaries.
6. The fifteenth century as a literary period: how the prevalent
disparagement of it is accounted for: facts significant of its intellectual tendencies.
7. John Lydgate: facts of his life: his personal character and
mental traits: his three principal poems.
8. The old English Ballads: how they have been collected, and
by whom: how they may be classified: their value as historical material.
9. Reasons for the neglect into which the poetry of the fifteenth
century has fallen.
10. Wherein its prose is superior to that of the fourteenth century.
11. Bishop Reginald Pecock: the facts of his life: his principal
work: characteristics of his style.
12. Names of the principal poets and prose writers of the 15th
century.
13. The Elizabethan era: what literary forms it originated: the
discreditable characteristics of this era.
14. Edmund Spenser: his life: the name and plan of his principal poem.
III. RHETORIC.


This study, in which the instruction was given by lectures, and




225
with nearly the same students as have been just referred to, occupied
the first half of the Second Semester. The number of lectures given
was 31.
IV. ELOCUTION.
Lectures upon this subject. accompanied by exercises with the
class, were given to the classical section of the Freshman Class during
three weeks of the First Semester. Three lectures were given each
week. As many lectures were given in the Second Semester to the scientific section of the Freshman Class.
Besides these lectures on Elocution, elocutionary training, in the
form of lessons, was given to the gentlemen appointed to speak at
Junior Exhibition. Eight lessons were given. For a similar object,
six lessons were given to the speakers for Commencement. In the
case of the latter, many laborious hours have also been spent in the
private rehearsal of their speeches.
V. EXERCISES IN SPEAKING AND WRITING.
The care of these exercises is the most delicate and fatiguing task
that is entrusted to me. The following items may give some idea of
the work actually performed:
The Sophomore Class presented, First Semester,... 93 essays.
"  "<  "(      "    Second    '..     89   "
Total,....... 182 essays.
The Junior Class presented, First Semester,...    75 speeches.
"(         "      "    Second    "...  76    "
Total,.........                            11 speeches.
Total number of essays and speeches for the year,  333
The essays are read, and the speeches delivered from memory;
and copies of each, carefully prepared, are left with me for inspection. During the First Semester, I was able to deal thoroughly with
this work of revision and criticism, and far more time was spent with
the students in criticising privately their productions than was occupied in their public delivery.
In the Second Semester, my work in other directions was so great
that I was not able to give any time to this very important office of
private criticism.
In the Senior Class a very successful experiment was made during the year, for the cultivation of extemporaneous speaking. In
place of the melancholy and futile exercise of speaking in the chapel,
in which the Seniors have hitherto engaged under compulsion, there
was presented to them the plan of a voluntary association, to meet
once a week, to be presided over by the Professor of English, and to




226
engage in the extemporaneous discussion of questions, each of which
should be selected one week in advance of its treatment. About forty
members of the Senior Class have engaged in this association with a
heartiness, a vigor, and a success increasing to the end of the year.
In conclusion, I have the happiness to state that the work done in
my department during the past year has been, upon the whole, far
more satisfactory to me in its progress, and far mlore fruitful in
wholesome results, than ever before since my connection with it.
To yourself, sir, I beg leave to express my gratitude for the counsels and the appreciative sympathy with which you have aided me in
the difficulties which I have encountered.
X
REPORT OF B. F. COCKER, PROFESSOR            OF MORAL     AND
MENTAL PHILOSOPHY.
To the President of the Un iversity:
The Professor of Moral and Mental Philosophy has had in charge
tie following studies:
I. SOCIAL SCIENCE, with the Scientific Juniors for % the Semester.
In this class he has had 13 students belonging to the regular Scientific course; 5 Seniors, with whom it was optionl, and some
Law Students, who had permission from the Faculty to attend.
II. METAPHYSICS. History of Philosophy; Applied Logic, and Evidences of Christianity, with the Senior Class.
In this class lie has had present 85 Seniors, besides a number of
Law Students who had permission from the Faculty to attend.
The professor has felt himself embarrassed by the number of
studies crowded into the senior year, some of which really demanded
the whole tine for a thorough and adequate grounding therein.
Under these circumstances he has pursued a course which in his judgment seemed for the best interests of the class. Regarding Psychology
as the fundamental study, inasmuch as it deals with the mental principles and laws which underlie Logic and Ethics: he has devoted
the whole of the first semester to this study alone, and endeavored to
do the work thoroughly. The second semester has then been devoted
to History of Philosophy, Applied Logic, and Ethics, together with
the bearing of these studies on the Evidences of Christianity. The
Evidences of Christianity have been the subject of discussion in the




227
Sunday afternoon lectures, and he hopes this may be accepted as an
excuse for the small attention devoted to the subject in the class.
The professor regrets that he has not found a text-book on Metaphysics which he can use in his class with full satisfaction, and has
found it necessary to do much of the work by Lectures. Should his
life be spared he hopes to prepare a text-book which in his judgment
will be better suited to his purpose. Meantime he would be gratified
if it could be arrancged so that, for the first semester, he might have
TWO hours per day with the class. One hour, say at 3 or 4 P. M. for
lecture, and another hour, say at 9}~ A. Mi. for examination and
thorough drill.
The growing importance of Social Science, the vastness of the
literature of the subject, and the fact that we have in our possession
the library of Prof. Rau, in which most that has been written on this
great theory, in the languages of Europe, is happily found, render it
desirable that the subject should now receive more attention in the
University courses, (and especially in the senior year), and he feels it
best that lie should be excused from this department of work.
XI
REPORT OF GEORGE S. MORRIS, PROFESSOR OF M0ODERN
L.ANGUAGES AND LITERATURE.
To the President of the Utiierszty:
In accordance with your request, I beg leave to offer the following statement of the work done in the department of Modern Languages:
Instruction has been furnished in French, German, and Italian.
In this work three instructors, beside the undersigned, have been, with
one exception, wholly employed. The whole number of hours of instruction given has been (about) 1855.
I. French. All of the Scientific and Latin-Scientific students
have been instructed in French during the whole year, in four sections, by Messieurs J. F. Billard (three sections) and P. R. B. De Pont
(one section, Scientific students). One of the sections, made up of
Scielntific and Latin-Scientific students who had previously studied
French, formed an advanced class. These sections beginning French
have used Fasquelle's French Course and Pylodet's Litterature Fran-:lise Contemporaine. The main work done with them has, of course,
been largely elementary-the learning of French pronunciation and




228
the substance of French Gramlrlar, as also the translation of easy
French, and exercises in French composition. The advanced section
have also translated thirteen pages of Sadler's English into French.
The Latin-Scientific sophomores read during the first semester
Voltaire's Mdrope and Molires L'Avare, besides studying Poitevin's
Grammaire Complete and translating from Borel's Cours de Thames
(English into French). The Scientific Sophomores used also the two
latter works and read Acharc's Le Clos-prommier, in the first semester, and Corneille's Le Menteur in the first half of the second semester. Both sections wrote compositions in French at stated periods,
and French was made largely the lanouage of question and answer
in the recitation room. Each section recited three times in each week
to the undersigned, and twice to Monsieur Billard.
The Classical section of the Junior class began French in two sections at the beginning of the year, under Monsieur De Pont, who continued to instruct them until the middle of the second semester, using
IKnapp's French Grammar, in the first semester, and Knapp's ReadingBook. The class went throngh most of the grammar and the corresponding exercises, and were in the second semester, studying MuricePoiterin's Grammaire Franqaise and translating Sadler's English into
French when they passed under the instruction of the undersigned.
They have since continued the same work, beside reading Voltaire's
Zaire and writing three compositions in French-French being also
almost exclusively the language of the recitation-room. During the
first part of the second semester, Corneille's Le Menteur was read with
a voluntary and irregular class of Seniors and Juniors. They had
some twenty-five or thirty recitations, heard partly by M. De Pont,
but mostly by the undersigned.
II. German. The number of classes has heen five: the LatinScientific and some scientific Juniors (commencing) during the whole
year, an advanced class of Seniors in the same courses (elective), a class
of Classical Seniors (also elective; in two sections) and, since May 1, a
class of Classical Juniors (elective). Whitney's German Grammar, exercises, and Reader have been used with students beginning German.
Much, and almost exclusive, use has been made of German, especially
with advanced classes. Especial attention has been directed from the
outset to the learning of German idioms, as well as the laws of gramnmatical change and construction. The advanced class of Seniors read
Schiller's Wilhelm Tell and the first book of Schiller's Thirty Years
War, had two lessons each week in translating from  English into
German, and wrote three compositions and one historical essay, each,
in German. The Classical Seniors read during the last seven weeks of
their course five cantos of Gethe's Hermann and Dorothea, had fre



229


quent lessons in translating English into German, and wrote compositions in German, All classes in Germain have been instructed by
Mr. Robert Harbison, except the advanced Seniors during threefourths of the year, and the Classical Seniors during one-Tourth.
With all of the more advanced classes, both in French and in German, it may be added that the attempt has been made, whenever
masterpieces of foreign literature were being read, to call attention to
the peculiarities of the style andc of artistic construction, and to supply or elicit such historical information as was necessary to a fair appreciation of the works in hand. Constant practice in original French
or German expression has been required, on the basis of words
or phrases occurring in the readcing-lessons.  During the second
semester five hours were occupied by the undersigned in presenting to
the Junior and Sophomore sections an outline of the history of French
literature, and six hours in giving a similar outline relative to German
literature to the Senior sections studying German. In all cases the
students are required to take notes of the lectures and to present the
same written out in proper form at examination.
French-speaking societies were voluntarily formed among the
Freshman students, and for a short time a German conversation club
was maintained among the Seniors. Each of the instructors assisted
at the meetings' of those societies which were formed from  among his
own classes.
III. Italian. Two lessons per week during the second semester
were offered by the undersigned, with the permission of the Faculty,
to such members of the Senior and Junior classes as desired to elect
Italian. An excellent class (of sixteen persons) was formed, and the
greater part of Cuore's Italian Grammar was learned, and about fifteen pages of Italian were read.
In general, all the classes in the department have worked well,
with honest interest. Owing, in large measure, to the painstaking and
intelligent labors of the three gentlemen named as instructors in this
report, it is believed the department has made a decided advance during the past year in point of thoroughness and extent of the work
done. The requirement of a certain knowlege of French on the part
of Latin-Scientific and (in 1873) of Scientific students entering the
University, will doubtless render it possible to secure still more satisfactory results with those students in French.




230


XII.
REPORT OF ELISHA JONES, ACTING PROFESSOR OF THE
GREEK LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE.
To the President of the University
The following report of the Greek Department for the Academic
year 1871-2 is respectfully submitted.
The whole number of students belonging to the department at
the beginning of the year was 201, divided as follows: Seniors, 59,
Juniors 37, Sophomores 44, Freshman 61. In the first semester eleven
Freshmen and one Sophomore were found unable to remain in their
classes, and two additional Sophomores and one Senior were admitted,
making the whole number belonging at close of year 192.
The following work was done by the different classes:
The Freshman Class had five recitations a week during the whole
year. This class was divided according to scholarship. In the first
semester the first division read all of the Panegyric Oration of Isocrates, and the second division the first forty-four pages (Felton's edition).
Both divisions had two lessons each week in Boise's Prose Composition, and reviewed Parts I. and II. of Hadley's Grammar.
During the second semester the class read of Thucydides Book I.
from Chapter 22 through, omitting the speeches. and Book II. first 46
chapters including the speeches.  Part IV of Grammar, and Grecian history from first Olympiad to end of Peloponnesian War were
also learned. A most careful criticism of the text accompanied the
reading of both Isocrates and Thucydides.
The plan of dividing according to scholarship has, in the opinion
of the instructor, worked well. Those in the second division were
stimulated by the hope of gaining admission to the first, and those in
first were ambitious to maintain their position; while no jealousy or
unfriendly feeling was provoked among the different members of the
class.
The Sophomore Class was also divided during the first semester
according to scholarship. The class had one recitation a week in
Smith's History of Greece, and four in Homer's Iliad. In the history
all chapters on the Heroic Age, and.con Literature and Art to the
close of the 5th century B. C., were learned. Of the Iliad, the first
division read the first six books and the second the first five. In addition to the translation, special attention was given to the dialect of
Homer, to its peculiarities in contrast with the Attic; the beauties and
characteristics of the Iliad and its value in history were made prominent; the "Homeric Question" was discussed, and essays on subjects
connected with the age of Homer were written and read by each member of the class.




231


In the second semester the class had 45 recitations and read most
of the Electra of Sophocles. Each student also prepared and read a
critical essay on some great tragedy or comedy. The History of the
Greek Drama, its origin, rise, and characteristic features; description
of the Grecian theatre; the lives and labors of' the three great Attic
tragedians, were prominent topics in the oral instruction.
The Junior Class in 50 recitations read Demosthenes' Oration on
the Crown. Essays were required from each student on subjects connected with the time of Demosthenes. In addition to textual criticism
the oral instruction sought to make the class acquainted with the political institutions of the Athenian Republic, and with the chain of
events in the 4th century B. C., that led to the Macedonian supremacy.and final overthrow of the Grecian independence.
The Senior Class had seven weeks of five recitations each and
read Plato's Apology and Crito. Lectures were given the class on
Education at Athens in the time of Socrates and Plato.
XIII.
REPORT OF THE INSTRUCTION IN PHYSICS.
Adjunct Professor Merriman being absent at the time these reports are presented to the' President, the following brief statement
alone of the work in Physics is presented:
All the Junior class study Physics during the entire first semester,
taking the following topics: Physics of Solids, Liquids, Gases, Acoustics, Light and Meteorology.
The students of the Junior year take during the entire second
semester Analytical Mechanics, embracing the application of the calculus.
XIV.
REPORT    OF EDWARD L. WALTER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
OF LATIN.
To the President of the University:
In accordance with your request, I beg leave to submit the following report of the work done in the department of Latin during the
year just closing.
For the last ten weeks of the first semester, the Classical and Latin
and Scientific Seniors recited to me five lessons a week. The size
of the class, (something over sixty), made it necessary to divide it




232
into two sections. They read and reviewed the Germania and Agricola of Tacitus, and accomplished the work in a manner generally very
'satisfactory.
During the first twelve weeks of the second semester, the Juniors,
Classical. and Latin and Scientific, recited to me in two sections five
times a week. They read the tenth Book of Quintilian's Institutions,
I think thoroughly and well.
In the first semester, the Sophomores recited in daily exercises in
Horace. They read about two books of the Odes. six or eight of the
Satires, and the Ars Poetica. They were drilled in Prosody, and became familiar with the more frequently-recurring metres.
In the second semester they recited to me in daily exercises for the
first half of the semester in Terence. The first section read the IHeautontimorumenos, the second the Phormio. Considerable attention was
given to the derivation of words and to the history of the language,
both in form and construction, so far as illustrated by the text of the
author they were reading. Each student also read an essay on a subject assigned, connected with the study of the year in Latin.
The Freshman Class recited in three divisions to Instructor F. A.
Blackburn, one Latin and Scientific, and two Classical. They have
had daily exercises throughout the year. During the first semester
they read Cicero De Amicitia, and completed the third part of Harkness' Latin Prose Composition. In connection with the reading, they
reviewed the Etymology. They were required to write the exercises
in Latin Prose, and to hand in a corrected copy for examination.
During the second semester, they read the twenty-first Book of
Livy and studied the History of Rome down to the third Samnite
War, reciting in History once a week. They reviewed the Syntax,
and were thoroughly drilled in its application.
For the first time with me the experiment was tried of determining the division of classes on the basis of scholarship instead of the
letters of the alphabet, and the experiment seems to me, so far, an undoubted success. The Sophomore Class, the only class reciting to myself in which the experiment was tried, has done as good work with
me this year as ever was done by any sophomore class. The division
was continued only during the first semester, owing chiefly to the increasing difficulty of making a satisfactory division, arising from the
rapid improvement of most of the members of the second division.
Instructor Blackburn presents a similar report from the Freshman Class.   The satisfactory character of the work, especially
noticeable in the two lower classes, is in my judgment to be attributed largely to the new method of division.
In conclusion, I would like to express ny personal obligations for




233
the kindness and consideration uniformly received by me from yourself and from my older and more experienced colleagues in the Faculty, No one is more keenly conscious than I of the wide differencebetween myself and the accomplished scholar and gentleman
whose chair I temporarily fill; but this difference has not been increased by lack of diligence on my own part, nor by lack of consideration on the part of others.
On motion of Regent Walker, the report with the accompanying documents were ordered to be printed in the minutes.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That 1,000 extra copies of the President's report, with
the accompanying documents, be printed for the use of the Board and
other purposes, and that 250 copies be bound in paper covers-balance
folded and stitched.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
On motion the Board adjourned until to-morrow morning at 9
o'clock.
UNIVEaKSI-Y OF MICHIGAN,
Tuesday morning, 9 o'clock. 
Board assembled at the room of the President.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert; Burt,
Estabrook, Grant and Rynd.
After spending some time in signing Diplomas, the Board resumed the regular business of the meeting.
Professor S. H. Douglass presented his annual report of Laboratory receipts and disbursements for the year ending June 3d, 1872,
which on motion was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The report of the Demonstrator of Anatomy was received and referred to the Committee on Medical Department.
The annual report of the Librarian, and accompanying documents,
were received, and on motion referred to the Committee on Library.
The following communication was received from the Dean of the
Mledical Faculty, and on motion referred to the Committee on Medical
Department:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,       I
June, 25th, 1872. S
To the Hon., the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-At the earnest request of Professor Ford, and in
order to secure a more extended course of instruction in Physiology,




234
the Medical Faculty at a late meeting adopted the following lesolution, viz:
Resolved, That the Faculty recommend the transfer of the course
in Physiology from Professor Ford to Professor Cheever, provided
that such transfer shall not affect the number of lectures delivered by
Professor Ford, or reduce the time of his service below the full lecture
term; this change in duties involving a corresponding change in
titles.
The Faculty also beg leave to recommend that the honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon Dr. William Upjohn, of
Hastings, Michigan.
They beg leave also to renew their recommendation of the appointment of Dr. Frothingham to the Professorship of Opthalmology
and Aural Surgery, upon the conditions stated in their last report.
The Faculty respectfully ask also, an appropriation of one hundred and fifty dollars for advertising; the usual sum for the publication of an annual announcement; as large a sum as practical for the
medical library; and fifty dollars for the purchase of glass ware for
the preservation of specimens for the medical museum.
Respectfully submitted,
A. SAGER, Dean.
A communication fro:n Professor Merrinan was received and read
by the President, which, on motion of Regent Walker, was refered to
the Committee on Scientific Course.
The President stated that H. C. Noyes and E. S. Jenison, of Chicago, graduates of the University, had lost their original diplomas by
the Chicago fire, in October last, and that dup icates were desired
On motion, the Board granted duplicates to be furnished the applicants upon payment of the usual fee.
By Regent Willard:
Resolved, That the honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon Dr. William Upjohn, of Hastings, Michigan, a former Regent of the University.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The following resolution presented by Regent Willard was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the Board regards with especial satisfaction the
movement inaugurated among the Alumni by the graduating class of
the present year, for making additions to the Library of the University; and that the thanks of the Board are hereby tendered for the
generous donation made for that purpose by the class.




235
Regent Rynd introduced the following resolution, which passed
unanimously:
Resolved, That we hereby express our high sense of the valuable
services which have been rendered by the late Zina Pitcher, M. D.,
Emeritus Professor to this University, and our respect for his eminent
attainments and his exalted character; that our sympathy is hereby
extended to his family, and that a copy of this resolution be duly forwarded.
On motion, the Board went into executive session, to consider
the appointment of Lecturer on Surgery, in place of Dr. T. A. McGraw,
resigned, after which, Regent Rynd offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That Donald McLean, M. D., be and hereby is appointed
Lecturer on Surgery for the ensuing year, at a salary of $800 per
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
A communication, signed by several members of the Faculties, and
recommending that the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws be conferred
on Mr. Benson J. Lossing, was presented, whereupon Regent Willard
offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation of
members of the Faculties, the degree of Doctor of Laws be confererd
upon Benson J. Lossing, of Poughkeepsie, New York.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
A communication, signed be several Alumni resident in Adrian,
and recommending that the honorary degree of Master of Arts be conferred on Professor W. H. Payne, was read, whereupon Regent Estabrook offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That in accordance with the request contained in the
communication just read, the degree of Master of Arts be conferred
upon Professor William H. Payne, of Adrian, Michigan.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The following communication was received and read by the President:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN. 
June 24th, 1872.
James B. Angell, LL. D., President, Etc.:
SIR:-The following gentlemen having complied with all the re



f  f 
qulirenents folr the Diplolma of Pharmacutical Chemlist, alre hereby
recommended for the award of the Diploma:
ENOS GILBERT BOUGHTON,
CLINTON BURNETT,
CLAYTON FAUZETTE COLLINS,
FRED PRENTICE,
FERDINAND R:EPPERT.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S. H. DOUGLASS, Director of Laboratory.
On motion, the degree of Pharmacutical Chemist was granted and
ordered to be conferred.
The following communication was also read by the President:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
DEPARTMXENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
ANN ARBOR, June 24th, 1872. 
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Mlichigan:
GENTLEMEN:-The candidates whose names are subjoined, having
complied with all the requirements of the Department, -are hereby recommended for the degree of Doctor of Medicine:
LAFAYETTE JONES,
WAKEMAN RYNO,
OLIVER P. DALY,
R!OBT. E. BOYD,
ALBERT H. REED,
ELSIE F. ANDERSON,
GtEO. H. SHELTON.
RPespectfully submitted,
A. SAGER, Dean.
On motion of Regent Rynd, it was ordered that the degree of
Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon the persons named in the coimmunication received from the Dean of the Medical Faculty.
Board now adjourned to 3 o'clock P. M.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,      (
Tuesday, June 25th, 1872.
The Regents re-assembled at the room of the President, at 9 P. M.,
a full Board being present,
The President announced the presence of Dr. Francis Woodruff,
of Ann Arbor, and Dr. T. S. Pomeroy, of Detroit, and others, and
stated that they appeared in behalf of Homoepathic practitioners, and
desired to present a memorial to the Board.
On motion of Regent Rynd, permission was granted.
Regent Rynd, chairman of the Committee on Medical Department,




237


presented the following reports, which were accepted and adopted, and
ordered printed in the minutes:
The Committee on the Medical Department, to whom was referred
the report of the Demonstrator of Anatomy, have examined said report, find the exhibit satisfactory and approve of the course which has
been pursued by the Demonstrator.
C. RYND,
THOS. D. GILBERT,
H. A. BURT.
The Committee on the Medical Department to whom was referred
the recommendations of the Medical Faculty, would respectfully report: First-That instruction in Physiology be given during the next
medical term by Professor Cheever, thus relieving Professor Ford, as
requested. Second-That Dr. Frothinghalm be appointed to the Professorship of Opthalmology and Aural Surgery, upon the conditions
heretofore existing.
C. RYND,
THOS. D. GILBERT,
H. A. BURT.
Regent Estabrook offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That all candidates for admission to the Law or Medical
Department of the University, shall be required to pass an examination equivalent to that required for admission to the Scientific Department. This resolution to take effect September, 1873.
Referred to Joint Committee on Medical and Law Department, on
motion of Regent Grant.
Regent McGowan offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the vote by which Dr. Woodruff was permitted to
present a memorial to the Board, on the subject of Homoepathy, be
re-considered.
After considerable discussion the resolution was lost by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Gilbert, McGowan and Grant.
Nays-Regents Walker, Willard, Burt, Estabrook and Rynd.
On motion of Regent Walker, Dr. T. S. Porneroy, of Detroit, was
permitted to address the Board on the subject of Homoepathy.
After listening to a brief address from Dr. Pomeroy, Regent Burt
moved that the memorial and other papers presented by Dr. F. Woodruff be referred to the Advisory Committee, consisting of Regents Estabrook, Walker and Willard, which motion prevailed.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent Walker, was
unanimously adopted:




238


Resolved, That the Professors of the Law and Medical Schools make
such inquiries of the applicants for admission into their respective Departments for the coming year, as will enable them to report understandingly upon the actual extent of preliminary education possessed
by such applicants for admission.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be directed to consider
the subject alluded to in the President's report, relating to the need of
making more full provision for instruction in the department of Political Economy and kindred Sciences, and to report upon the same at
an early day.
Adopted unanimously.
Regent Gilbert, chairman of the Finance Committee, presented
the following report, which was ordered printed in the minutes:
REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE.
In accordance with a resolution of the Board conferring the
necessary authority, the undersigned has settled with the IHon. D. McIntyre, retiring Treasurer of the University, executed to him the necessary acquittance, and received the funds and securities in his hands.
This is not the time for making the annual financial report, but
this settlement with the Treasurer enables the Finance Committee to
exhibit to the Board a statement of the finances of the University that
will not be materially changed at the close of the fiscal year.
The Finance Committe have received from the Treasurer a certified check on the Ann Arbor Savings Bank for..  $12,345.80
Warrants on Auditor General for amount assumed to be in
his hands belonging to University and expected to be
paid before July 1st,....   11,000.00
Total,.......     $23, 345.80
From this amount we owe for salaries to be paid
July 1st,.....   $14,828.83
Belongs to the State Aid Fund,...   1,730.25
Belongs to the Building Fund,...    560.28
Belongs to the Reserve Fund,...    2,560.06-$19,679.42
$3,666.38
There is due the Secretary of the Board for disbursements
made by him,.....          257.56
Balance in Treasury belonging to General Fund,.     $3,408.82




239


By reference to the annual report made at the September meeting
in 1871, it will be observed that it was estimated the surplus on the
first of July next would be $4,597.42, about $1,200 more than the actual result.
It was remarked in the last annual report, that it would be possible
to go through tle current year without inculrring debt, but that the
next year would show a deficit of $10,000. This will be the result of
the operations of 1872-3, unless we receive additional aid from the
State or reduce expenses, which latter is simply impossible.
THOS. D. GILBERT, Cl'n Finance Corn.
On recommendation of the Finance Colmmittee, the following appropriations were made, to be drawn as needed:
FROM GENERAL FUND.
For Fuel and Liahts,.....    $3,000.00
1 or Contingent Expenses,....         1,500.00
For Insurance,......       400.00
For Postage,......                100.00
For Grounds,.....                    200.00
For Advertising Medical Department,..            150.00
For Advertising Law Department,...       150.00
For Annual Announcements,...             75.00
FROM THE RESERVE INTEREST FUND.
For General Library,....       700.00
For Medical Library,....           400.00
For Law Library,.....       400.90
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution;
Resolved, 'That the sum of $1,000 be appropriated from the State
Aid Fund for the purchase of apparatus needed in the department of
Physics.
Adopted by vote as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
Regent McGowan introduced the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the committee appointed at the last September
meeting of this Board, as an " Advisory Committee," to confer with
any and all persons who desire to do so, on the subject of the proposed
Homoepathic School, to be located at some point other than Ann Arbor,
be and are hereby made a permanent committee on the whole subject
of Homceopathy.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That so much of the President's report as sets forth the
necessity of providing an Instructor to aid in the departments of Rhetoric and History be referred to tlie (ommittee on the Classical Courlse.




240
The resolution was adopted.
Regent Willard introduced this resolution:
Resolved, That Mr. Mark W. Harrington be appointed Instructor
in the department of Geology, Zoology and Botany, at a salary of one
thousand dollars per annum.
Adopted by vote as follows:
Ayes —Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Establrook, MeGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
Regent McGowan moved the following resolution:
Resolved, That Isaac N. Demmon, M. A., be appointed an Instructor in Mathemaltics, at a salary of $1,000 per annum.
Adopted by vote as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Wiilard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
By Regent Willard:
Resolved, That Mr. Charles S. Denison, C. E., be appointed Instructor in Engineering and Drawing, at a salary of $1,000 per annum.
Also, that Mr. Joseph B. Davis, C. E., be appointed Assistant in Civil
Engineering, at a salary of $1,300 per year.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant and Rlyncl.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 8' o'clo(k to-morrow, Wednesday, morning.
UNIVERSITY OF M[CHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 26th, 1872. 
Board of Regents re-assembled at the room of the President at 84 -o'clock this morning.
Present-a full Board except Regent Burt.
Regent Willard offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That Henry B. Hutchins, Ph. B., of Ann Arbor, be
appointed Instructor in the department of History and Rhetoric, at a
salary of $1,000 per year.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
Regent Rynd, chairman of Committee on Medical Department,
presented the following report:
The Committee on the Medical Department to whom was referred
the bills of E. W. Ellis & Co.




241


For Hospital Supplies,...   $459.36
For Chemical Supplies,.... 137.04
would respectfully refer said bills to Finance Committee, and advise
their payment.
Your Committee also recommend that in future supplies be procured in larger quantities. In this way such supplies can be procured
on more advanttageous terms. It is also recommended that in future
persons (not paupers,) who enjoy the advantages of the Hospital, shall
meet the expense of such medicines as may be required.
C. RYND, Chair'man-.
The report was accepted.
On the recommendation of Regent Gilbert, chairman of Finance
Committee, the following appropriations were made;
FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
For Hospital supplies during the current year,..   $459.36
For Clinic.    "...    137.04
For tiegents' expenses  "  "..       52.70
For Alterations and Repairs  '       "..        500.00
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, IMcGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
Professor Douglas reported that he was prepared to pay $30( on
Laboratory loan, as stated in his account. He also stated that the
apparatus of the Labortory needed to be replenished to that extent,
and requested that he be permitted to use this money for that purpose,
instead of applying it on the loan.
On motion, permission was granted.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
Oi motion of Regent Rynd, President Angeli and Regent Grant
were added to the Committee on State Hospital.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts, the following degrees,
on motion of Regent Walker, were granted and ordered to be conferred:
MINING ENGINEER.
Thomas 0. Perry, B. A.
CIVIL ENGINEER.
J. Lathrop Gillespie, PH. B.,  Thomas O. Perry, B. A.,
Cornelius Donovan,             Edmund M. Spaulding,
John H. Flagg,                 Marvin F. Temple,
Otto J. Klotz,                 Matthew Tschirgi,
John A Mitchell,               Robert S. Woodward.




242


BACHELOR
Solomon H. Bethea,
Horatio N. Chute,
Riley Foster,
Francis A. Gage,
Henry Hiestand,
William H. Hinman,
BACHELOR 01
John M. H. Burgett,
Hamilton Dey,
Will J. Herdman,
Charles "


OF SCIENCE.
Warren A. Hosmer,
Lester McLean,
John B. Rosevelt,
Frank T. Seeley,
Barton Smith,
Charles C. Worthington.
F PHILOSOPHY.
Charles L. Houseman,
Louis M. Iddings,
John W. Phelps,
K. Turner.


BACHELOR OF ARTS.


George W. Allyn,
Frank D. Andrus,
Edwin I. Ayer,
Charles 0. Baker,
Austin Barber,
Charles G. Bennett,
Charles T. Beatty,
Walter A. Brooks,
Archer H. Brown,
Robert E. Bunker,
Henry F. Burtcn,
James Christie,
Charlemagne Clark,
George E. (ochran,
George Colt, jr.,
Edgar A. Cooley,
John F. Dutton,
Frederick L. Geddes,
William S. Haskell,
Eben L. Hill,
Jeremiah Hillegass,
George F. Hurd,
Louis H. Jennings,
Clark Jones,
Joseph C. Jones,
Hiram M. Keeler,


Charles B. Lothrop,
Herbert H. Lyons,
Joseph Mac Magrath,
James H. Maguire,
John L. Mapel,
William H. M'Kee,
Samuel G. Miller,
Addison Moffat,
Jackson Morrow,
John W. Morton,
Hiram Myers,
Hector Neuhoff,
David L. Orr.
Edmund W. Pendleton,
Homer Reed,
Dwight C. Rexford,
Ernest W. Schreeb,
Monroe B. Snyder,
Madelon L. Stockwell,
Hiram B. Swartz,
Frank H. Tabor,
Russell F. Tinkham,
William T. Underwood,
Herbert D. Updike,
Howard H. Van Vranken,
George P. Voorheis.




James H. Kirkpatrick,
William R. Leigh,


243
Theodore B. Wilson,
Roland Woodhams,
James A. Woods.


MASTER OF SCIENCE (IN COURSE).
Colman Bancroft,               Edw ard S. Jenison,
Franklin S. Dewey,             Archibald Johnson,
Henry H. Hubbard,              Joel Moody,
Albert A. Robinson.
MASTEtL OF ARTS (IN COURSE).
Henry A. Chaney,               Francis M. Hamilton.
Samuel F. Cook,                John E. Hinman,
William J. Cocker,             Peter F. Lightner,
William J. Darby.              Benjamin L. (C Lothrop,
Stephen C. Hall,               Thomas O. Perry.
MASTER OF AR'TS (ON EXAMINATION).
John F. Eastwood. A B.
The following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the Library Committee be instructed to make arrangemeuts for conducting the General Library at an expense not exceeding $3,000 per year.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
H. D.  BENNETT, Secretari/.




OCTOBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OvI MIIIICHI(AN  )
Ann Arbbr, Mich., October 7, 1872. 
The Board of' Regents assembled at the room of the President at.
7i o'clock p. Mi.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The meeting was opened by devotional exercises by the President.
The minutes of the last meeting, as printed, were approved.
The following report from the Library Committee was read by the
President:
UNIVERSITY 0OF MICHIGAN, 
October 7, 1872. [
The Library Committee beg leave respectfully to report,
That in compliance with the resolution of the Board of Regents,
asking them to ascertain if the library could not be administered at anl
expense not exceeding $3,000, they held a meeting during the vacation,
and after investigation of the subject, unanimously voted to reconmmend
that the Librarian be employed at his present salary, and that a boy
and two women be employed to assist him at an expense not exceeding $1,000.
For the Committee,
J. 1B. AN(-ELL,
Chairman.
On motion, by.Regent G1ilbert, the veport was accepted and
adopted.
Dr. Palmer, of the Medical Faculty, being present, on invitation
of the Board, presented in an informal manner the views of the Medical Faculty in relation to the establishing of a State Hospital in connection with the Medical Department of the University. On concluding his remarks, he promised to have the plan elaborated and
ready to be presented at the next meeting of the Board.




246
After a brief' discussion o(f the subject by Regents Rynd, Willard
and others, the following resolution, presented by Regent Willard,
was adopted:
Resolved, That a committee of four, consisting of two Regents and
two Medical Professors, be appointed to confer with the Commission
on State Charities, on the subject of establishing a State Hospital.
Regents Rynd and McGowan were appointed a committee on the
part of the Board. The President and Dean of the Medical Faculty
were authorized to appoint the others nalned in the resolution.
Regent Gilbert, chairmlan of the Finance Committee, presented a
report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1872, which, on motion of'
Regent Walker, was accepted and adopted, and ordered printed in the
minutes.
The Finance CoImmittee submit herewith a statement of the financial condition of the University at the close of the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1872.
The receipts into the treasury have been as follows:
Balance on hand July 1, 1871..........................$ 21,649.08
(Of this amount $11,687.50 was due that day for salaries, leaving actual balance belongoing to the University, $9,961.58.)
IReceived from State Treasurer during the year on account
of "University Interest Fund "........................ 38,350.0
Received of State, being annual appropriation............  15,000.00
"    for students' fees and diplomas.................. 22,905.00
"    tfom Treasurer for interest on University funds in
his  hands..................................  447.52
'    lor amount refunded tfrio  Building Fnd........  4,200.00
$102,551.60
DIS:BURSEIMENTS.
For salaries, Janitor's wages, etc., for last quarter of previous year,and first three quarters
of current year..........................$  65,689. 16
For account of General Library...............  1,100.00
MAedical   '...............    400.00
Law "..............             400.00
For contingent expenses...................... 15,562.23
Amt. on hand to credit of General Fuind.....  19,400.21
— $-102,551.60




247
Of the above balLmee of $19,400.21 to the credit of the
General Fund at the close of the fiscal year, there was
due that day for the salaries of the last quarter of the
previous year, the sum   of........................... $14,828.83
Due Secretary of the Board.......................  557.56
$15,386. 39
Leaving as an actual balance in the treasury, $4,013.82, and in the
hands of the Secretary of the Board the sum of $347.44 unexpended
balances of former appropriations.
The aggregate amount appropriated during the year for contingent
expenses was $15,562.23. An itemized statement of this account,
marked A, accompanies this report.
STATE AID FUND.
The amount in the treasury belonging to this fund on June
30, 1871,  was...................................... $3,5 1.49
From which has been expended:
For balance of repairs on President's house.....$754.11
To  complete  new  fence.............................  559.27
To complete steam heating apparatus in Law Building  and  Library..............................  677.86
_-__    1,791.24
Balance..........................................$1,730.25
RESERVE FUND.
This fund is a part of the money received for lands sold in Detroit,
and is invested as follows:
In Michigan 7 per cent. bonds............................$ 7,000.00
In East Saginaw 1Os..................................... 6,500.00
In  Ann  Arbor  7s........................................  3,200.00
In Manchester 10s........................................  1,500.00
In  Midland  City 10s.....................................  1,000.00
Cash...................................................   60.06
Total.......................................... $19,260.00
The Board have adopted the policy of appropriating the most of
the income of this fund to the use of the Libraries, adding a small
amount annually to the principal, until it amounts to $22,000, that being
the sum for which the property in Detroit was sold.
The receipts for the year ending June 30, 1873, we estimate as
follows:




248
Balance on  hand July  1, 187..............................  19,400.21
From the State, for interest on University Fund........... 38,000.00
Annual State aid....................... 15,000.00
Students' fees and diplomas............................ 21,000.00
Rents.............................................   250.00
Interest on Treasurer's account......................   500.00
$ 94,150.21
ESTIMATED) )ISBURSEMENTS.
For salaries due June 30, 1872................. 14,828.83
For salaries of the first three quarters of the current year...............................  60,038.00
For Annual Catalogue.......................   1,500.00
For insurance...............................  1,800.00
For fuel and lights............................  4,000.00
For  libraries................................  2,500.00
For alterations and repairs....................  1,500.00
For Regents' expenses......................  500.00
For improvement of grounds.................     400.00
For other expenses........................  4,000.00
For salaries for the last quarter of the current
year, due and payable June 30, 1873.......  16,000.00
_ ----__-$,107,066.83
D eficit.........................................$   12,916.62
By reference to the report of the Finance Committee made to the
Board one year since, it will be observed that our present financial
condition was predicted, but it has been impossible to reduce our expenses in any way without seriously impairing the efficiency and usefulness of the University. It has been deemed the best policy to keep
pace with the demands of the times in all matters pertaining to the best
interests of the University and the cause of education in the State,
trusting to the Legislature to afford the necessary aid. It will be the
duty of the Board to present the claims of the University for the consideration of the Legislature at an early day of the next session.
It will be necessary to provide for the deficit of $13,000 in the revenues of the current year, and for a gradual increase of the income of
the University.
The annual report of ex-Treasurer McIntyre and his vouchers have
been received, examined, found correct, and are herewith returned to
be placed on file.
The accounts and vouchers of the Steward have been examined
and found correct.
The accounts and( vouchers for receipts and expenditures in the




249


Laboratory have been examined by the Steward and reported correct.
The expenses of the Hospital have been considerably reduced, and
a gratifying improvement in its general management is apparent. It
promises to be a valuable auxiliary to the course of study in the Medical Department.
Tuos. D. GILBERT,
Chairman.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the sum of $7,500 was temporarily
transferred from the General Fund to the Building Fund, for the purpose of paying bills now due.
A valuable collection of photographs of views in Athens and
other parts of Greece and in Rome, collected by Prof. M. L. D'Ooge,
while absent in Europe, were presented by him to the University,
with the request that they be placed in the Museum, if defmed of sufficient value; whereupon Regent McGowan presented the following
resolution:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents in behalf of
the University be tendered to Prof. M. L. D'Ooge for his generous donation of photographs, and that the Secretary of the Board be requested
to have them suitably framed and placed in the Museun.
The resolution was adopted by the following vote: Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Board went into executive session. After spending some time therein, the regular business of the
meeting was resumed in open session.
The following communication was read by the President:
STEVENS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, 
Hoboken, New Jersey, Sept. 17, 1872.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I hereby tender the resignation of my professorship of Civil Engineering in the University.
Having represented my department for fifteen consecutive years,
and having received the cordial support of the officers of the University in my endeavors to build it up, it is not without some regrets that
I now sever my connection with it. But I trust that under the direction of my successor, (whoever he may be,) it will be much more
prosperous in the future than it has been in the past. I shall retain a
warm interest, not only in the prosperity of this department, but also
of the whole University.
Respectfully submitted,
DEVOTIsoN WOOD,




250()
On motion of Regent Walker, the resignation of Prof. DeVolson
Wood was accepted.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That Mr. Charles E. Green, A. M., C. E., be appointed
Professor of Civil Engineering, in place of Prof. Wood, resigned, at
the salary heretofore fixed by the Board.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, jMcGowan, Grant and
Rynd.
Regent Gilbert offered the following resolution, which was also
adopted:
Resolved, That the appointment of a Professor of Geology,
Zoology and Botany, also the provision for assistance in that department, be referred to the Executive Committee, with power to do as
they may deem best.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Rynd:
Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be and are hereby instructed to prepare a report on the history and:present state of our
finances, indicating our needs, and that the same be printed and distributed as the Committee may think proper.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McGowan, Grant and
Rynd.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the matter of erecting out-buildings
on the ground was referred to the Building Committee, with power to
do as they deem proper.
Regent Gilbert, of the Finance Committee, stated that the following appropriations were needed, and moved that they be made from
the General Fund, to be drawn as required:
For  insurance.........................................   $1,000.00
For contingent expenses..................................  1,000.00
For alterations and repairs................................  500.00
For lightning conductors on Law and Medical Buildings.....  187.70
For Regents' expenses....................................  48.60
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, McG-owan, Grant and
Rynd.
On motion of Regent Willard, the Board adjourned to Monday
evening, December 30th, at 7~ o'clock.
H. ). BENNETT,
Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Ann Arbor, December 27, 1872. j
The Board of Regents assembled at the room of the President, at
7- o'clock P. M.
Present-The President, Regents Walker, (Gilbert, Estabrook,
McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The meeting was called to order by the President. and was opened
with devotional exercises.
The minutes of the last meeting wer'e approved as printed.
Regent Gilbert, Chairman of the Committee on Prepa.ration of a
Memorial to the Lezislature, reported that the committee had discharged that duty, and that the memorial had been printed and sent
to the members of the Legislature, and asked that the committee be
discharged from the further consideration of the subject.
On motion, the report was accepted and the committee discharged.
A communication from Dr. White in reference to supplyting the
University buildings with gas, to be manufactured on the grounds,
was presented and read by Regent Rynd, and on motion of Regent
Walker, was referred to the Committee on New Building.
Regent Rynd. Chairman of' the Committee on State Ilospital,
reported informally that a meeting had been held in Detroit by the
committee appointed by the Regents and the " Committee on State
Charities " that a full and free discussion of' the necessity of establishing a State Hospital for the poor of the State had taken place;
also, that a proposition to locate the Hospital at Ann Arbor, in connection with the Medical department of the University, was favorably
considered. Still, at the present time, the committee did not deem it
judicious to ask for an appropriation for that purpose.




252
The following resolution, presented by Regent Walker, was
adopted:
Resoved, That the thanks of this Board be tendered to Messrs. C.
Bliss & Sons, of Ann Arbor, for the gift of an elegant clock for University Hall.
President Angell announced that Mr. Philo Parsons, of Detroit,
had authorized him to subscribe, at his expense, for the continuation
of several valuable periodicals or serials found in the " Rau Library;"
also, that he had authorized him to prepare a select list of works on
political economy, the cost of which would be paid by him.
Dr. Ford, of the Medical Department, being present, requested
permission to exhibit a collection of anatomical plates, which he desired might be enlarged for the purpose of illustration in that department.  Permission wast granted. Dr. Ford stated that he thought the
expense of enlarging the number of plates needed for present use
would be $150, and asked for an appropriation of that amount.
On motion of Regent Gilbert. the matter was referred to the Comnmnittee on. Medical Department.
The President reported that a large number of very interesting
and valuable specimenis fbr the Museum, collected in South America
by Mr. Joseph B. Steere, an alumnus of the University, had been received, and that some of the specimens had been labeled and placed
in the vMuseuml, while a large number remained in the Laboratory to
e labteld and put in their proper places.
The President also reported that Prof. Mark W. Harrington had
returned from Alaskan, and was ready to enter upon his duties in the
UTniversity.
Regent Gilbert, Chairmlan of the Building Committee, to whomi
wNs ref'erred the colmmunication of Dr. White, relative to the erection
of gas works and the manufacture of gas for University purposes,
after due consideration of the subject, reported adversely to the projec. a (nd stated t,;hat in his judgment the proposition merited no further attention froi'  the Board.
Th'e following appropriations were made on recoemmendation of
the Finance Committee:
For contingent expenses.....................................  $1,000
For alterations and repairs.................................  500
For Hospital furniture...................................  500
For Annual Catalogue..........2................... 1,200
For fuel and  lights.........................................  1,000




The vote was as follows: Ayes-Regents Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
On motion of Regent McGowan, the Board went into executive
session, and after having spent some time therein, resumed the regular
business of the meeting in open session.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the sum of $43.50 was appropriated for Regents' expenses, by the following vote: Ayes-Regents
Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook. McGowan, G rant and Rynd.
The following preamble and resolution, presented by Regent
Rynd, were unanimously adopted:
W-HEEAS, The supply of water is inadequate for the use of the
University, and affords no protection against the ravages of fire; and
WHEREAS, Other cities in the State, where State institutions are
located, have made suitable provision in this direction; therefore,
Resolved, That, deeply impressed as we are with the danger to
which we are subjected on this ground, we respectfully but earnestly
ask the authorities of the city of Ann Arbor to afford us such protection
as the best interests of this institution demand-not only as a protectifon against fire, but also for other purposes on the University Ground.
Regent Grant presented the following resolutionl:
Resolved, That the memlbers of   eg   tur of the  egislture of this State be requested to visit the University during the present session of that body,
and examine the new University Hall, and to investigate the expenditure of the money voted by the last Legislature for that purpose, and
also to examine the University in all its departments.
Adopted unanimously.
Regent Gilbert, Chairman of' the Building Committee, miade a
statement in explanation of the claiml of Win. Goldie for extra labor
done and for extra material furnished the New Building, after which
he presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of $536.50 be paid Win. Goldie on his
clain for "extras," as agreed upon by Mr. E. S. Jenison and Prof. De
Volson Wood, from any money not otherwise appropriated in the University IBuilding Fund.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant
cand Rynd.
On motion of Regent McGowan, the Board adjourned to the
usual time of the March meeting.
HI. D. BENNETT, SEC'Y.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICrHIGAN, 
Monday, March 24, 1873. 
The Board of RIegents assembled in the room of the President at
7- o'clock P. i.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt,
Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved as printed.
The Report of Operations in the Museum of the University of
Michigan in the Department of Geology, Zoology, and Botany, and
the Department of Archaeology and Ethnology for the sixteen months
ending January 14th, 1873, by Professor Alexander Winchell, was
presented by the President, and on motion of Regent Gilbert the
reading of the report was dispensed with, and the report was temporarily laid upon the table.
Regent Rynd, to whom was referred the matter of making an
appropriation for enlarging anatomical plates, as requested by Dr.
Ford for the use of the Medical Department, stated that he was not
yet ready to report. Further time was granted.
Professor Greene, of the Engineering Department, was granted permission to make a statement in reference to new instruments neededin
his department; also in reference to the changes and repairs he desired
to have made previous to the next academic year in the several rooms
occupied by his department. He asked that a suitable appropriation
be made for the objects stated.
On motion of Regent Rynd the matter was referred to the Committee on Scientific Course.




256


The following collmunication from the Dean of the Law Faculty,
was read by Regent Grant:
ANN ARBOn, March 24, 1873.
To the Board of Regents:
The undersigned in behalf of the Department of Law respectfully
recommends that the degree of Bachelor of Laws be conferred upol
the following students in that department, who have passed the requisite examinations after pursuing the prescribed course of study.
THOMAS M. COOLEY,
Secretary.
Edwin Fletcher Abbott..........a............    Paw.
Frederick Herman Achauer.................anesville, Ohio.
Hiram Allen...............................New London, iowa.
Albert Anderson.......................... Morrow, Ohio.
Frank Pierce Andrus..............A.......A   ont.
Stephen Andrew Armstron.............. Celina, Ohio.
A. Dwight Baldwin.........................Toledo, Ohio.
Ed. Burton Bauder, B. A.....................Circleville, Ohio.
Oscar Cissna Beechler...............Bryan, Ohio.
Arthur Alexis Birney...................... Cleveland, Ohio.
Milo Alonzo Boynton........................ Grand Haen.
John Calvin Broady.......................Liberty, Ill.
Dennis John Brown........................Jackson.
George Wright Buckley.....................Battle Creek.
Volney Emmet Burke.................... Kalamazoo.
John Harsh Campbell...........A............Aron, Ohio.
Oscar James Campbell, B. A................ Cleveland, Ohio.
George Willis Cass, B. A..................... Coshocton, Ohio.
Will A. Chamberlin..............o.........Jckson.
William Halsey Cook.......................Ann Arbor.
Solon David Coon........................... Waterford.
Thomas Jefferson Corkery..................Ann Arbor.
Charles Augustus Cornwell, M. s..............Monica, Ill.
Edgar Alonzo Crane.......................Paw Paw.
Andrew Dunn Cruickshank..................losco.
James Cruickshank..........................Musquodoboit, N. S.
James Robert Davis.................... South Bend, Ind.
William Newton Davis....................     t. Vernon, Mo.
Chauncey Bainbridge Dean................. Belvidere, Ill.
John Thomas DeLany....................... Waukegan, Ill.
Peleg Sylvester Dodge.......................Elkhart, Ind.




257
Morgan E. Do      wlin.........................Detroit
Samnuel Howard Doyal, Atty................. Frankfort, Ind.
Halftan Adolph Eckholdt................Rochester, Minne,
John Daniel Elvans.................n.......Lincoln, T1l.
Orris Wellington Farrar..................... Dover, X. H.
LetmlSel S     t.        w ett....................Gamnpbellsville, Pa.
Jeremiah Tracy Finnegan..................... Iug7on
John James Fla nery...................... ot. Charles,[ IL
Rufus Fleminlg.............................. West Lebanon, lnd.
Thonas Jefferson Frank...o..............    Urbana, Ohio.
Alexander M. F unkhouser..................Burnt Prairie, I1z,
Thomas Howie Gault, s. A................. Ann Arbor.
Oscar Harris Gilmore..................... Marengo, 111.
Frederick Dennis Grove...............  Des D  1Moinles, Iowa.
William Allen Iall.................... G alion, Ohio.
Samuel Itaibletonl.......................... Flushing, Ohio.
Jo hn Mlartin Harris..................    Point Perinsla, N. Y.
Robert Harmon Hazlett..................      Sprixgfield, Ile.
Henry 11. Herr t.............a............ Altoona, Pa.
Edward Martin Hoffman...................... Ann Arbor.
Lawson Carroll Holden.............   O.t.ramel, N. Y.
Frank Marr Houts. B. S................. Warrensbrg, Mo.
Emma Lucretia Hubbard, B. A...............Springfidd, l fass.
John Barr T-ussey......................... Brazil, Ind.
Louis Clair Johnson.......................    Grand Rapids.
Tegard IH. Jones......  M..............rshall, III.
James Bradford Judson......................Paw Paw.
Malcolm Kelley...........................Ann Arbor.
William Thomas KelseyP.....................  Prairie du Sac, Wis.
Samuel Eden Kemp.........................Dayton, Ohio.
William Russell Kendrick....................Dryden.
Eugene Floyd Lane......................... Rochester, Minn.
John Fred Lauman11...........................Xenia, Ohio.
Gilbert Liddle, Jr..........................Colon.
Ludo Burrill Little..........................Fair Haven, N..
George Washington Mann............ Owosso.
Marcus Augustus Markham..................Ann Arbor.
Amos Wilson Martin, B. A................. Lancaster City, Pa.
John Alpheus Merrick...............     id...l.iddle Fork, Ind.
William Johnston Millar...................Illiopolis, 111.
Thomas Jefferson Mitchell, B. A........   Springfield, ll.
John Edward Moore.........................Kokomo, Ind.
Samuel Smith Moorehouse................  Galena. Ill.




258
Henry Judson MIorris........................An.  A Arbor.
Columbus Nave, B. A........................Attica, Ind.
Henry Augustus Neal...........f............ Tftonboroughl, i. I1.
Joseph Thomas O'Neal...................... Versailles, Ky.
De Forest Paine............................ Saginaw City.
Milford Clement Palmer................... Big Rapids.
Labanna Franklin Portser..................Saltsburg, Pa.
Charles Nelson Potter.                                a.................... Grand Rapid,.
William Harvey Potts...................Clinton.
James Henry Pound........................Detroit.
Perry Anthony Randall, B. A................Avilla, Ind.
Susannah  Raper............................ Adrian.
John Mason Reynolds....................... Grand Rapids.
Ebenezer Manzer Rider................. Fentonville.
William Osweld Robinson.........T......... Tuscola, ll.
Alonzo A. Rowley, B. s...................... Crystal Lake. Il.
John Ryan.................................Mt. Vernon, Mo.
Eugene Frederick Sawyer.................... Grand Rapids.
John Cameron Simonds......................Le Roy, IN. T
William Nicholson Skinner................. Niles.
George Washington Sloan.............  atertown, Wis.
Hiram Smith Jr., B. A................... Ann Arbor.
Stearns Fisher Smith......................Locke.
Wesley Atwill Sperry, Att'y...................Farmington.
Albert Clark Steck........................ Greensburg, Pa.
Alonzo Scott Stephens,. s...................Turneers Junction, I1l.
George Monroe Steece......................Ironton, Ohio.
Edward Lansing Stone.........Saginawm City.
Hiram Arthur Sturgis....................... Vassar.
Edward Blake Sumner, B................... Rockford, Ill.
James Ten Eyckl........................... Fairvie?, Il.
James Finley Thomas......................Belville, Ill.
Charles Edwin Thornton....................Burr Oak.
Charles King Turner, P. B.................. Ann Arbor.
Lucius Don Turner..........................Fresburg, 111.
Eli Bacon Vincent..................... Beverly, Ohio.
John Graves Waples, B..................... Chillicothe, Mo.
James Franklin Ware, B. s..................ortonville, Wi.s.
J. Cicero Watson..........................Memphis, 'enn.
Thomas A. E. Weadock............... St. Mar;y's Ohio.
William Hunter W-ashington, B. A............rufreesborough, Tenn.
Joseph Heck Wendell, Att'y.............Pontiac.
Isaac     l Chambers Wheeler.................. Lexington.




259


Charles Rudolphus Whitma n............... Ypsilanti.
Robert Baxter Windham..................... Plattsmouth, Neb.
Charles Gordon Wing, P11. B.................Jackson.
Jacob  P. W instead, B. s...................... ircleille, Ohio.
Charles Marcus Woodruff.................... Ypsianti.
James Nichols Young...................... P(ara.
On motion of Regent Grant the degree of Bachelor of Laws was
ordered to be conferred upon the persons named in the communication
from the Dean of the Law Faculty.
Hon, A. D. Gilmore, chairman of the Committe, appointed by
the House of Representatives to make investigations concerning the
course of instruction in the Medical Department, being present, was
invited by the Board to state his requests (if he wished to do so) in
regard to any information or desired aid from the Board which he
might deem necessary to accomplish the objects of the Committee's
visit to the University.
Mr. Gilmore briefly addressed the Board, and stated that the
Committee desired a written communication from the Regents in answer to the following questions:
First-Is the instruction in the Medical Department at the present
timee sectarian in character?
Second-What are the reasons, if any. which have influenced the
Board in its past action on the subject of Homeopathy?
Regent Walker presented the folowing resolution:
Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to express to
the Committee of the House of Representatives the views of the Board
on the subject of teaching Homeopathy in connection with the Medical
School as now existing at Ann Arbor.
Adopted, unanimously.
In accordance with the resolution of Regent Walker, the President appointed Regents Walker, Grant, and Willard such committee.
Regent Grant stated, that he being a member of the present State
Legislature, an appointment on the committee would place him in a
somewhat peculiar position, and asked to be excused. His request
was granted and Regent Gilbert was appointed in his place.
Regent Gilbert presented the fllowing resolution, which was referred by his request, to the Executive Committe:
Resolved, That hereafter atll Diplomas granted by authority of the
Bolard of Regents shall be signed only by the President of the University and the Secretary of the Board of Regents.




260


As Chairman of the Building Committee Regent Gilbert stated
that he desired an expression of the opinion of the Board in reference
to the completion of the auditorium in the new building in time for
the Commencement exercises in June.
The Board unanimously expressed the wish thatt the work should
be at once commenced, and the hall bc made ready for the next Commeencement exercises, provided, the Board could avail themselves of
the entire amount of the $25,000 approirirtion made by the present
session of the State Legislature for the completion of the University
Hall Building.
The follwing resolution was presented by Regent McGowan:
Resolved, That here:after, nntil ordered otherwise, all surplus income from the Law Department, be appropriated for the purchase of
books for the Law Library.
After a biief discussion, the resolution was referred to the Coll:mittee on the Department of Law.
Regent Gilbert, Chairman of the Finance Committee, made a
statement in reference to the financial condition of the University.
IHe said that erroneous ideas existed among many persons in regard to
the financial condition and resources of tl;e University. The deficit
for the current year was estimated at $13,000 for which, the present
State Legislature had granted an appropriation, covering the amount.
This sum, by the first of July next, will be absorbed, and the treasury
willbe left empty. In addition t8 this appropriation, the Legislature
had also granted the sum of $25,00( for the completion of the new
building, all of which will be required, and if any extra ornamentation be made, the sum will prove inadequate. The Legislature has
also granted a yearly tax of' To- Df a mill on the taxable property of the
State, according to the last equalization, until the year 1875, which
will add to the general fund the sum of $16,500 annually. If the
annual deficit hereafter remains about -the same as for the current
year, there would be left in the treasury at the end of each fiscal year
a sum not largely exceeding $2,000-which is a small margin indeed
for extra expenses in heating, lighting, and taking care of the new
building. In reality the University is no better off than a year ago, except that it has been furnished means to keep out of debt. This will be
the condition of affairs until 1875. when the new assessment will give
a larger appropriation. For the next three years, therefore. the University will barely keep running and out of debt, and it will be necessary to observe the most rigid economy in the disposition of its funds.




261


The bill pending in the Legislature, known as Senate Bill No. 73, providing for the appointment of two Homeopathic Professors, makes no
provision for the payment of their salaries, and if the bill passes, and
the appointments are made, an additional yearly expense of $3,600
will be incurred.
Communications firm J. W. Hagadorn, M. D., of Ovid, Mich.,
and W. W. Hippolite, M5. D., of DeValls Bluff, Arkansas, were read,
praying that duplicate diplomas be granted them, as the originals were
destroyed by the Chicago fire in October, 1871; whereupon Regent
Rynd presented the following resolution:
Resoloed, That duplicate diplomas be granted )r. Hagadorn and
Dr. Hippolite, graduates of the Medical Department of the University
on condition of their paying the usual (liploma fee-said diplomas to
bear the samne date as the originals and marked '"Dplicate."
Ayes-l-egents Walker, Willard, Gilbert., hutrt, Estabrook, Mc(Gowan, Grant, anl IRynd.
Regent Rynd read the following cotmmunication from the Dean of
the Medical Faculty:
To the President andl Thion. Boatrd of Rzgents of the University of Michican:
GENTLEMEN,-The candidates whose names are subjoined, having
compiplied with the requirements and passed an examination satisfactory to the Faculty, are hereby recommended for the degree of Doctor
of Medicine.
Respectf llly submitted.
By order of the Faculty,
A. SAGER,, DEAN.
Name.                               fesidence.
Willliam Aitchesonl......................... Secforth, Ont.
Oliver 3M. Atwood...........................East Saginzw.
Lafayette Batson......................... Niles.
lenry Bertrand Bessac...................... Manchester.
C(harles Sumner Bigelow.............M........ilan.
John W. Brown...........................Brockett's Bridge, iV. Y.
W illitam N. Burdick....................... oldwater.
Hiomer Bushnell...........................Pownall, Vt.
W  illita   W. Campbell.......................Belmont, Ont.




262


Name.                                    Residence.
William Edward Choate....................ackson.
Charles Fletcher Cochran................. Argentine.
Stephen M. Colladay.................. Vermont, Ill.
William Henry Cotton..............Adrian.
John Wesley Culley, M. A..................?Ann Arbor.
John Anderson Davis.............l...indiana, Pa.
Lambert LeRoy Doty................. Spring, Pa.
Emmet Seward Elmer...................     C.. Chester, NA. Y.
Ephraim Beverage Evans..            Reading.
Thomas Robison Evans.................learville, Pa.
Louis Adelbert Foote................... Battle Creek.
George E. Fullerton.........................Springfield, a.
James Edward Gee......................... Waupun, Wis.
William R. Grannis..........................Flemmigsbrgh,.
Arthur Sherman Hall.................... Syracuse, N. Y.
Edmund Murray Hall..............   Toledo, O.
Nathan Christopher Hall....................Fowlerville.
Wallace E. Hallock......................Pecatonica, Ill.
John Davis Hartley.......................Adrian.
Louis Eugene Hollister......................Danby, N. Y.
George W. Holmes........................Neew York City.
Millard F. Hudson................ Three Springs, Pe.
Charles E. Huxley..........................Vermillion, D. T.
Philo Milton Jewell.................Mt. (arroll, III.
Thomas Augustin Kay..................... Laingsburg.
Charles Kellison..........................ornellsville, 7~. Y.
J. G. Leffingwell.................... Conneautville, N. Y.
Oscar Leseuer......................... Danville, 11.
William H. Maitland...........a...... Lacon, Ill.
John Alva McCorkle............        Lordstown, O.
John Owen McGregor.......................Lowville, Ont.
Robert McIntyre...................... Fingal, O.mt.
Laureston A. Merriamn.................. Crescow, Ia.
John Millington........................... Bennington, Vt.
Albert L. Morgan.......................... arseilles. Ill.
James Decker Munson...................Jersey.
Frank Hall Murdock.................... Titusville, Pa.
A. W. Nicholson........................ Ne Boston, Mcass.
Dennis Nunan...........Gu..............          elph, Ont.
Edward Everett Pease...................... Windham, Pa.
Thomas Abram     Perrin.................   Cheboygan.
Abel M. Phelps.........................      Ellenburg Center, NY. Y.




263...d  0


11. DeW. C. Phelps........................ Waterloo, N. Y.
Bradford Franklin Plevws................... Ann Arbor
De La Motte Potter......................Frederickstown, O.
John James Porte..................... GL.Guelph, Ont.
William H. Porter.....................     West Liberty, la.
Edwin West Raynor........................Frankfort, N. Y.
Noah Schenk......................         aiso7nbui.rg, Pa.
John L. Short............................. La Grange, Ind.
Samuel Finley Smith......................Granbyi, N. Y.
Samuel L. S. Smith......................... ew Albany, Ind.
Jerome Marvin Snook...................... Kalamazoo.
Will Henry Solis...........................Pontiac.
Benjamin Cotton Stevens..................... ogansport, Ind.
Charles  Stuart............................ ile,  Ont.
Abram R. Turne......................... Brasher Falls, J. Y.
Joshua M. Wardell........................ Fingl, Ont.
Edward Watson............................. Ann Arbor.
Charles M. Whiting.........................Plafeld, l.
Charles H. Whitney.........................Strawber'ry Point,;l.
S:amuel J. Wightman........................ Pittsburg, Pt.
Peter Wesley Wright........................   yandotte.
Hal Clement Wyman.....................Blissfield.
S. Gertrude Banks..........................     lled Lake.
Sara Elizabeth Brownl.................... Boston, Mass.
Emma Louise Call.......................... Boston, Mass.
Josephine Marie Copp.................        Plinwell.
Virginia Harley..W......... Vooster, 0.
1Hattie J. Tift Hilton......................Ann'Arbor.
Eusebia N. Huntley................... outh Columbia, NV. Y
Josephine Kingsley..........................Coldwater.
Mary E. Little..................Fair Haven, N. Y.
Annie Julia Lore.........................Auburn, N. Y.
Henrietta iMilsom.......................... Chicago, III.
Cornelia E. Whitbeck............... Pittsforld.
T otal........................................ 85.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the degree of Doctor of MIedicine
was granted, and ordered to be conferred upon the persons named in
the communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty.
On motion of Regent Walker, the Board went into executive scs.




264


sion, at the close of which the following c):ninmunici:-ion from the Secretary of the Faculty of Literature, Science and Arts was real:
To tie Hon., the Boardl of Regents:
GENTLEM.EN,-The following resoluti(on wVats p:assed by the Faculty, on March 3, 1873:
Resolved, That Lewis B. P1 arsos be recommendedll  by this Faculty
for the degree of B. A., to rank with1 the class of 1872.
In accordan:ce with the ab)ve resolution, the degree w.as granted,
and ordered to be conferred.
The resignation of PrJf. Alex:Lner Winchell, LL.D., was received. and read by the Secret-iry. O(  motion of Regent Rynd, the
resignation was accepted; whereupon Regent; Willard presented the
following resolution, which was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That in accep-ting tile resignation of Prof. Alexander
Winchell, the Board desire to express their high appreciation of his
eminent services as 1an instructor, and the singular honor which his
researches il pishysicfal science,:and his n-any contributions to the scielitific literature of tile age, lhave conferred upon the University.
The President stated that the resignation of Prof. Moses Colt
Tyver had been received.
On motion of Regceit Grant, the resig;nation of Professor Tyler
was accepted, and considered to thave taken effect on the 15th day of.1anuary, 1873.
On Imottion of Regent Walker, the President was added to the
conlumittee appointed to p'r pa re the statement to the Legislativ6 Commiittee.
On motion, the Boardl adjourned to 9 o'clock A. M. the next day
(Tuesday), March 25th, 173.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, f
Tuesday Morning. 
The Board reassenmbled in the room of the Piesident, at 9 o'clock
A. M.
Present-a full Board.




265


Tile Special Committee appointed to prepare a statement for the
Legislative Committee, now present, announced that they were ready
to report; whereupon Regent Walker presented and read the following majority report of the Committee:
T7 the Ihon. A. D). Gilmore, ChaiI'rman of the Comnittee /of he Iiouse of.Representatives of Michigan:
The Boa.rd of Regents of tlle Universit, iln allswer to the questions proposed to it by your committee, beg leave to say:
In answer to the first question, as to the sectarian chalracter of
instruction in the Medical Department of the Ulniversity, that this
department was founldedl thirty yeiUars ago, when the questionls now extaiit in medicine were comparatively unknown. The professors who
founded the department nae still with us, having given their life's
work to its upbuilding. They anld all their colleagues, as is well
known, belong to the so-called reIgular school of physicians, and naturally teach accordlilng to their belief. When this Board ten years ago
assumed the imanagement of the UnJiversity. they found the medical
school most prosperous and( efficient, land thley made no radical chalnges
in its manalgement. It lhas labored to afford to all students broad and
liberal culture in medicine, to teachl general principles commlon to all
medical education. How far any speCial doctrines of any parlticulhar
school have been taugtht, instead of general lprincilples, the committee
will have fully lesarned from the testimony of the professors who hal e
appeared before it. No student has been questioned in the least as to
peculiar beliefs, lor hlave any distincti ons beenl made of any character on accouInt of sectlarian sentiment s in medicine lamong sttudents.
There Iare.homeopathic Stu(delnts in every medical class xwl o receeive degrees upon exanminatioll precisely like their fellows, and lnot a few of
our own graduattes are 11no  distllguished practicingll homeopathic phiysicians.
Secondly. As to tie reasons which have influenced tile Board in
its past action on the subject of homeopathy:
That this has been thle vexed question for the ten years of the administration of this Board; tlhat they have for that time given their
earnest attention iand study to the matter. which they have always
consideredl the most troublesome and tllreatening question affecting
the success or iprosperity of this, the noblest and most successful of
the institutions of the State. 'The Board in this matter have had no
sectarian prejudices, and have only sought the best good of the institution placed by tile Constitution and the law under their control..
When in 1867 tlhe Legislature attached to its appropriation of one



266


twentieth of a mill on a dollar upon the valuation of the State, the
"homeopathic proviso," so-called, this Board undertook in good faith
to carry out the will of the Legislature. They passed a resolution in
April of that year accepting the appropriation upon the condition
proposed. The result was, that the resignation of every medical professor was placed in their hands. After the most strenuous and earnest efforts to reconcile the matter and retain the integrity of the
department, the Board came reluctantly to the conclusion that such a
reconciliation wais an impossibility, and that the two systems could not
exist together in the same institution. Rather than destroy a departmlent which had brought such honor and reputation to the University,
(it bei-ng the largest medical school out of a metropolitan city in the
world,) the Board receded from their position, and in March, 1868,
they undertook to comply with the "proviso" by organizing a school
of homeopathy away from Ann Arbor, and appointed Dr. Hempel
one of the professors. The Board then asked for the appropriation
from the State Treasurer, but were refused. Upon an application for
a: mand(am.s the Supreme Court decided that a school out of Ann Arbor \vas not a compliance with the act of 1867, and refused the writ.
The Board then appealed to the Legislature of 1869, stated their reason for non-compliance with tie proviso of 1867, and( that proviso was
repealed and tile accumulated money in the treasury given to the
Board, with provision for the future.
That in the investigation and study of this matter, which has elgaged the attention of the Board for so many years, they have come
to the conclusion that the causes which in this country render the
union of two schools in one instituttion entirelyh impracticable are:
First-The intense and irreconcilable feeling of hostility which
exists between tile different schools of medicine.
Second —rThie thorough system of or ganization existing in the socalled regular school of medicine, extending from city and country
to State and national societies, whicli is so imperious and perverse that:
1. No professor can teach in a school connected with homeopathy
without absolute professional ostracism. 2. No student who believes
in thle regular system, so-called, will attend such a school, because his
studies and lectures in an institution, irregular aln unrecognized by
these societies, will not admit him into the professional ranks of the
school to which lie belongs.
These reasons are entirely apart from any tilng peculiar to this
State or tllis University, but belong to the present position of medical
science and ethics in the United States, and can neither be controlled




267
nor ignored by those who are placed in practical charoe of living' institutions, and for them tie Regents can in no wise be held responsible. The Board will most cordially unite with the Legislature in
anything practicable which shall harmonize this difficult matter.
(Signed) E. C. WALKER,
THOS. D. GILBERT,
HIRNMI A. BURT,
JOSEPH ESTABROOK,
J. H. McGOWAN,
C. B. GRANT,
CHAS. RYND.
Regent Willard, on conclusion of the reading of the repcrt, signed.by all of the members of the Board (he alone excepted), said, that he
agreed with his colleagues as to the facts stated in the report, but dif
fered as to some of its conclusions, and asked permission to present a
supplemental report, setting forth very briefly his views in reference
to the questions discussed in the report just read.
Permission being granted, Regent Willard read the following report, and aske I that it be printed with that of the other members of
the Board. Agreed to.
The following is Regent Willard's report:
The undersigned, while assenting to the above communication as
a statement of the facts which have influenced the past action of the
Board of Regents in the management of the Medical Department,
desires to state that he retains the opinion which he has hitherto in(dlged, that the appointment of a professor to teach the homeopathic
theory and practice of medicine is alike required by the dictates of
equal justice to the large class of citizens in the State who patronize
such practice, and is justified by a deference to those sentiments of
enlightenment and liberty so characteristic of our educational system.
At the same time he deprecates any action on the part of the Legislature looking to interference with the internal regulation of the University or the general management of its affairs, save by way of resolutions of recommendation, since he reoards such action to be fraught
with great peril to its future usefulness. He believes that to the Regents ought to be left the sole responsibility of dictating the kind of
instruction to be given in every department which the Constitution of
the State has confided to their charge and control.
(Signed) GEORGE WILLARD.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Board proceeded to sign the
diplomas granted to students of the professional departments for the




268


term ending March 26, 1873, after which the Board went into executive session. At the close of the executive session, Regent Rynd prerented the following report:
T'he Coimmittee on the Medical Department, to wholni was referred
tlhe communl icaltion of Professor Ford, askirng an appropriation for the
purpose of furnishing Anatonical Plates, have had the subject under
consideration, and woul respectfully report; in favor of making an
appropriation of $100, from the General Funld, to be expended by
Professor Ford for the purpose indicated.
The report was adopted.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Rynd:
Resolced, That I)onald MIaclean, M. D., be and hereby is appointed
Professor of Surgery in the Medical Department of the University, at
a salary of eighteen hundred dollars per annum.
Ayes-Regents W\alker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan. Grant, and Rynd.
Board adjourned to 2 o'clock p. M.
MARnc- 25TH, 1873.
The Board reassembled in the room of the Pre-ident, at 2 o'clock
P. M.
Present-a full Board.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Sccretary was instructed to
provide suitable cases for the use of the General Library, on call of
the President.
Regent Gilbert, chairman of the Finance Commnittee, presented
an itemized statement, from 'Prof. Winchell, of his account with the
University. I; was accompanied by propelr vouchers, and showed a
balance of $125.83, due Prof. Winchell. The payment of this balanrce was recommlended.
On motion of Regent Walker, Prof. Winchell's Report of Operations in tlMe Museumt of the University of Miichigan in the department of Geology, Zoology and Botany, for the sixteen months ending
January 14th, 1873, was taken from the table. The Report was accepted, and such portions of the same as the President should direct
were ordcred printed in the minutes.
The following is Prof. Winchell's report:




269


REPORT
Qf Operationis in t:'ie Museum, of the UniversitC y ojf Michg'an, in. the
Department of Geology, Zoology and, Botany, and the Dep-rttme?.t of Arclheology and Ethnology, for the sixteen months ending
Januaarq 14, 1873.
BY ALEXANDER WINCIELL,
Professor of Geology, ZoOlogy and Botany.
To the Honorable, the Board ef Regents of the University qf Michigan:
The Report which, in accordance with my custom of several years'
standing. should have been submitted at your last September meetilng,
has been deferred to the present occasion, through a desire that the
last Report which I slhall have the honor to make in my present capacity, shllould extend the history of my connection with the Museum,
to the last day of my connection with the University.
The principal Iaccessions to the material of the Museum since my
last Report, have been made through the labors of Alumnus J. 13.
Steere. in South America, and Assistant M. W. Ilarrington, in Alaska.
Mr. Steere sailed from N-ew York, September 17, 1870, for Para, Brazil, bearing the credentials of the University and of the Smithsonian
Institution, with tlhe view of making collections in geoloogy, zoology,
botany, arclamology and ethnology, in the countries which he might,
visit. All the collections were to be sent directly to the University.
Mr. Steere began his work immediately on landing at Para, visiting
the numerous islands of the lower Amazon, especially in search of
birds. By favorable stages, he continued his journey up the Amazon,
collecting in the waters and upon the land, and exhuming from ancient mounds a large quantity of more or less broken pottery. He
also collected articles of food and implements and utensils employed
by the various native tribes, which lie interested himself in visitingc
and studying; and by this means, and through the notes collected,
furnished large facilities for extending our knowledge of the ethnology of the valley of the Amazon. At Pichana, Pebas, Old Pebas
and other localities, lie collected large quantities of the interesting
fossils which, it is supposed, reflect much lighlt on the geological age
of the Amazonian deposits. Other geological specimens were collected at Yquitos and in the Andes. On the:west side of the mountains, he has made very considerable collections of Peruvian antiquities, which have been shipped, but not yet received.




270
The specimens announced as sent, have all been received, except
three boxes, and also three boxes were recently announced from Callao. The boxes overduC e are as follows:
No. 12. Said to contain skinls and skulls, bottles of alcoholic
specimens, a monkey, a bag' of cotton, specimens from shell-heaps.
etc. Collected at Obidos, Brazil, and shipped Aug. 17, 1871, from
Santarem.
No. 19. A tin tlunk, said to contain ferns, lichens, clubmosses.
and skins. Shipped December 10, 1871. from Manaos, Brazil, care of
U S. Consul A. Watrin, Paan. It is possible that this package has
been rel,eived, since we whave what answers to the contents, but without anything properly called a "' till trunk."
No. 27. A small box of fossils ordlered sent from Yquitos, Peru.
Announced in letter of March 18, 1872.
We are under obligations to Mr. J. B. Gager, of 67 South street,
New York, for the pains lie has taken to hunt up these and other
boxes held a lono time in the various governlnent storehouses, in New
York. Mr. Gager is now regular consignee and forwarding agent for
the University; and no similar detentions or losses are to be expected
hereafter. MIr. Steere's shipments, for a year past, have gone to the
care of Mr. Gager.
The specimens received arc generally in excellent condition. Box
No. 13, containing pottery from the mounds, had been opened (probably at the I. S. Custom Iouse, New York,) and very shabbily repacked. The contents were much ldamaged.
The contents of Box 30 were nearly destroyed by water. It contained plants, butterflies and bird-skins. It was shipped May 30,
1872, from Tarapota, Peru, and was received in September. Tile
shells, fossils and gypsum, in the same box. were, of course, uninj red.
The collection of bird-skins sent by Mr. Steere is large and line.
Hiis numerous butterflies have arrived in excellent condition. All the
alcoholic specimens were secure. The mosses and lichens are an interesting feature of his collections, as also the large assortment of
Brazilian and Peruvian woods. I feel that it is but justice to an enthusiastic, indefatigable and intelligent collector, to bear testimony to
the able and satisfactory manner in which he has executed the plans,announced to us when he left with our credentials. I deell it a matter of general interest, and worthy of record, to state, also, thalt Mr.
Steere hlas been a reg'ular correspondent for the Ann Arbor Courier,




271
to which he has contributed about 60 lengthy letters of great interest.
These serve as an invaluable commentary upon the specimens, and it
is to be hoped that their republication, in a permanent and accessible
form, will secure for the "Steere Collections" those detailed histories
and explanations so essential to a full interpretation of the specimens.
It is indeed to be hoped that Mr. Steere, on his return, may find the
University in a position to set him at work in the thorough elaboration of the results of his journeys, in one or more of the departments.
It ought to be stated that the principal part of Mr. Steere's expenses has been defrayed by Mr. R. A. Beal, of this city, and that
means have been forwarded to enable the explorer to extend to New
Zealand, Australia and the East Indies.
All the specimens received have been examined, registered, secured from damages by insects or mould, registered, and either placed
upon the shelves of the Museum or carefully repacked. The following is a classified summary of specimens thus far received:




272
Suzmmary of Steere Collection.
SINCE LAST REPORT.
_         _        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Total number of boxes received.......... 27                18
Total number announced................. 33                22
SINCE LAST REPORT.
_________~ --- —---  1 —,1 —                 ___ --- —1-  - -


Il


Mammalian specimens..        49        65         25           26
Ornithological  "...    450        642        241          273
Reptilian       "...     50         93         42           79
Fishes..................    47       179         46          178
Insects..................  225       978        172          870
Crustaceans.............     5         13         4            5
Shells..................   251       238        185         1582
Total Zoological......  1077      4351        715         3013
Total Botanical.......  229        822        166          559
Total Geological......   157      1283        139         1245
Arch.e. and Ethnol....    203       265        181          231
Grand Totals.....    1666      6721       1201         5048
The original letters and lists of specimens will be found deposited among the papers of this Department; and all the requisite entries and detailed tabular statements have been recorded in the JOURNAL.




273


Assistant M. W. Harrington connected himself, in July, 1871,
with a government expedition to Alaska, under command of Captain
W. 1H. Dall, and has very recently returned to duty in the University.
During his absence, his efforts for the Museum have been unremitting; and though his relations to the public service were such that
comparatively few of his collections remained under his own control,
the University has been made the recipient of many valuable specimens; and it is expected that others, through the favor of Captain
Dall, will be received, after passing through the hands of the Smithsonian Institution. While in California, both on the outward trip and
the return, he secured specimens in geology and botany; and, on the
Aleutian islands, obtained rare ex'amples, now very difficult to procure, of thie products of native industry. Some of these, like the
geological specimens from California, were purchased; while a few
were presented by native Aleutians, on being informed of the nature
of their destination.
A most interesting result of Assistant Harrington's expedition, ig
the introduction of a native and full-blooded Aleut boy, 15 years of
age, into the surroundings of American civilization. This young
man, contrary to prevalent impressions respecting his race, possesses
a marked degree of intelligence, and voluntarily seeks expatriation
for the Tpurpose of securing the advan-tages of an education. This
Aleut is an ethnological specimen of unique interest; and by the similarity of his physiognomy to that of the Japanese, confirms strikingly the opinion, long held by some, that our northwestern shores
were peopled from the orient.
The following is a summary of specimens recently received from
Assistant Harrington.
Entries. Specimens.
Geological.......................  87   92
Botanical, (estimated'...............  150  250
Ethnolo ical.........................  16   16
The ethnological specimens, though not numerous, are unusually
fine and rare, as the detailed statement will show.
Lieutenant F. D, Baldwin has forwarded the Museum a donation
which deserves especial mention. It consists of the skeletons of three
buffaloes from the vicinity of Fort Hays, Kansas-a bull, a cow, and
a calf. Lieutenant Baldwin has also presented a specimen of the
' Jackass Rabbit."
Principal S. N. Sanford, of Cleveland, Ohio, at the instance of
Alumnus T. R. Chase, has presented a living Cashmere Goat; General




274
C. B. Comstock, Superintendent of the U. S. Lake Survey, has presented a set of specimens dredged in Lake Superior; and the Geological Survey has contributed 222 Type specimens from the Marquette
Iron Region, collected by T. B. Brooks, Assistant, and A. Winchell,
Director of the Survey.
Other contributions will be named in their order.
The work in the Laboratory attached to the Museum has been
continued as heretofore. Much attention has, of course, been paid to
the specimens of the Steere Collection, in cleaning, repairing, discriminating, securing, registering, assorting and repacking. Similar attentions have to be bestowed upon all other specimens; while those deposited upon the shelves of the Museum are by no means placed
beyond the need of continued care and watchfulness. A limited
number of students have occupied themselves in the Laboratory, under my direction, in studying certain classes of specimens from the
Museum; but the facilities for study of this kind, it is hoped, will
hereafter be improved. The principal courses of study pursued here
since the last Report, are courses in Lithology, Conchology, Paleontology, Ornithology, Herpetology, and Microscopy. Lithology, hitherto a required study of the Senior Class, has been somewhat a specialty here, in consequence of extraordinary facilities for the collection of specimens. Every student is encouraged to secure a series of
labeled rock-samples; and the last class in this subject has collected
no less than 2,409, which have been authentically labeled, either in
the class-room or the Laboratory.
The partial completion of the new building having vacated the
suite of rooms hitherto occupied by the Steward in the Museum Building, the operations of the Museum will find needed relief by taking
possession of them. This is a relief which I have long anticipated.
I would respectfully propose that the west one of the two larger
rooms be set apart as a working room for special students in this Department; and that the east one of the two smaller rooms be assigned
to the accommodation of the botanical collections., I should hope
that the latter might be furnished with the requisite cases, and the
former with the requisite tables. Of the other two rooms, the larger,
being the room into which the bell-rope descends, could not be advantageously used for a working or study room, but might be supplied
with cases for the reception of a certain class of specimens-the bellrope being boxed and secured by lock and key. The smaller room
will be needed for a botanical store room.
The large room known as the "Old Chapel," being no longer
needed for lectures in my Department, ought to be regarded as the




275
natural extension of the Museum. I have long looked to this consummlation, and the appropriation of this large apartment, on the first
floor, to the accommodation of large specimens, like skeletons of the
buffatlo or elephant, and casts of the megatherium and other gigantic
extinct quadrupeds. The ceiling should be cut away in a style uniform with the stories above.
The collections in the Department of Archteology and Ethnology
are attaining very considerable magnitude and importance. The intcrest of the specimens sent by Mr. Steer, from Brazil and Peru, can
hardly be overestimated; and there is no doubt that many others will
be received. I earnestly hope, in the interests of American science,
and no less in the interests of the University, that opportunity will
present itself for the proper study of all these specimens, and thac a
creditable volume may yet appear, under some auspices, in which
ample justice shall be done to the collection, in descriptions, discussions and illustrations. For the present, our accommodations are insufficient for the display of most of the specimens. Some are, accordingly, shelved temporarily in the Palseontological Hall, and many
more are repacked and stored away. If the present room is to be retained for the collections of this Department, two or three new cases
ought to be constructed immediately.
It will be readily understood that the Steere Collection has furnished a large amount of work for the hands of a taxidermist, and
every consideration prompts to tile engagement of his services at as
early a day as practicable. The three valuable skeletons of the American bison ought also to be mounted, and thus rendered educationally
useful. In a communication placed in the hands of the President in
June last, I suggested that the duties of taxidermist and custodian of
the Museum might be fitly united in one person. His duties, to be
performed under the direction of the Professor in charge, would be1. To prepare and mount all zo6logoical specimens-including
skins, skeletons, skulls and other preparations.
2. As far as possible, to clean and prepare palkeontological speciiens, and prepare and mount objects for microscopic study.
3. To watch the zoological and botanical specimens in the cases
-killing insects, replenishing the jars of alcoholic specimens, removing dust, and giving such1 further attention as the security of the specimens demands.
4. To give instruction in taxidermy when required.
5. To act as custodian of the Museum in all its departmentsopening and closing doors at designated hours; noting the conduct of




276


visitors, and preventing depredations; keeping the curtains closed
when visitors are not in, and performing such other kindred service as
might be required.
Such an appointment would also secure to the Department the
performance of sundry small duties, like the bringing of wood and
water, and the kindling of fires, which none of the present janitors
regard as falling within their province. Without this provision, some
other arrangement needs to be effected, which will secure the performance of such work in a prompt and cheerful manner.
I congratulate the University on the return of Assistant Harring —
ton to duty. Familiar with all the details of the Departmnent, and inspired with a true scientific ardor, I am sure that the opportunities of
a few years will render him an ornament to science and an invaluable
adjunct to the University. Mr. G. W. Allyn, a graduate of 1872, and
a young man of uncommon zeal and industry, has rendered lassistance
during the present collegiate year, whose efficiency I am glad to acknowledge, with an expression of the hope that the University may
continue to be favored with his services.
The following is a detailed statement of accessions to the Museum
since the date of my last report:
I. GEOLOGY.
J. B. STEERE, (Alumnus).
The aggregate of geological specimens sent from Brazil and Peru,
S. A., are as follows:
Fossils..............................  77  entries  1068  Ppecimens.
Rocks and Minerals................. 80   "       215     "
Totals.....................  157  "    1283 
Total since last report................ 136  "  1245     "
Many of the fossils from Pebas and vicinity are very small, and
there is no doubt the literal aggregate of specimens would tmuch exceed the above.
C. J. KINTNER, (Alumnus).
Four fossils from the Cretaceous rocks of Texas.
JOHN A. TALBOTT, Cassopolis, Mich.
F'avosites Niagarensis, a fossil coral from the Drift.
M. BAKER, (Alumnus).
Grammysia (n. sp.) Drift, Ann Arbor.




277
CHARLES N. Fox, San Francisco, Cal.
Two specimens of gold-bearing, and one of silver-bearing quartz.
DELOS MINER, Parma, Mich.
One specimen. Iron Pyrites and 10 specimens Bog Iron Ore.
M. W. HARRINGTON, (Alumnus and assistant).
Box of 78 entries and 95 specimens from California. Ores of
gold, silver and copper and 'the associated rocks and minerals. Of
these, 9 were presented by Capt. Mosher, one by George Lamb, and
one by W. P. Lamb.
J. A. WOODS, ('72.)
Specimen of rare rock, Ann Arbor.
Prof. J. MONrGOMERY, (Alumnus) Woodstock, Ont.
One Pentamerus oblongus, Owen Sound, Lake Huron.
Prof. N.H. HWINCIrELL, (Alumnus).
Snowy Gypsum from the plaster beds of Ottawa Co., Ohio. Oriskany Sandstone from Otsego, Wood Co., Ohio.
Rev. GEORGE JUCHAN, Robbinston, Me.
Cretaceous fossils, apparently from Nebraska-S entries, 11 specImens.
STATE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.
222 type specimens from the Marquette Iron Regions, collected
by Major T. B. Brooks under the directorship of A. Winchell. This
115 in addition to specimens heretofore reported.
C. H. WALKER, ('74, Detroit.)
Two specimens, Silver Ore, Silver Islet, L. Snperior. 13 spec.
veinstones from same locality.
O. C. JOHNSON, (Pliarmacy class.)
'wo hollow stalactites of pure carbonate of lime, from the cistern
of the Chemical Laboratory.
A. H. PARTRIDGE, Ann Arbor.
Specimen of Bog Iron Ore, from South Lyons, Mich.
CAPT. E. B. WARD, Detroit.
2 specimens of ore from Silver Islet, L. Superior. Corundum and
Mica from North Carolina. Galena from  Missouri. Total, 5 specimens.
PROF. E. HAANEL, (Albion College.)
Plate of immature molar of Elephzusprimigenius, from Mt. Pleasant, Iowa.




278
J. W. PHELPS, ('72).
Fossil, from near Pontiac, Mich.
MILES RORABACHER, M. D., Smithfieid, Mich.
Three bottles, different varieties, of mineral paint, at the instance
of Rev. George Taylor, Ann Arbor.
E. P. HANNA, Student, Salina, Kan.
Fossil leaves from the Cretaceous, and shells from  the Permian,
of Kansas-28 entries, 90 specimens.
PROF. E. A. STRONG, Grand Rapids.
Upper Helderberg Fossils-15 entries, 32 specimens, from Onondaga county, N. Y.
I. C. KIBBEE, Chippawa Falls, Wis.
Kaolin-one entry, 5 specimens.
D. L. GRAVES, Proprietor, Mamouth Cave.
Box of specimens from Mammoth Cave-eight specimens foliaceous gypsum-one compound statactitic form. 2 entries, 9 specimens.
JAMES W. FRENCH, Toledo, O.
Shell marl from central Ohio.
G H. WHITE, Chicago.
Incrustation upon outside of tubing in oil well, West Va.
F. W. FARR, ('73).
Oolitic limestone from central Iowa.
G. W; ALLYN, ('72, assistant.)
Sixty specimens of uncommon rocks.
JOSEPH HARPER, Central City, Cal.
Rocks and ores of copper, silver and zinc, from  the California
Mine, Cal. —  entries, 27 specimens-2 very large, of which one
weighed 60 or 70 pounds.
F. S. DEWEY, ('72.)
Two entries, two specimens of fossil corals. Five lithological
specimens. All from Ann Arbor.
Dr. T. J. SCOVELL.
Three Corniferous Brachiopods, Ann Arbor.
M. W. HARRINGTON, assistant.
Fossil wood, thirty feet beneath the prairie soil, Sycamore, 111.
A. WINCHELL.
Fossil wood sixty feet beneath the surface, Ann Arbor.




279
II. ZOOLOGY.
J. B. STEERE, (Alumnus.)
The followingo is a synopsis of the collections in zoology sent by
Mr Steere from South America:
a_
/.m  g     SINCE LAST REP'T.
W  I         Entries Specim.
Mamma1 1ls. In alcohol..........       3        3         3        3
Skins...............      27       33        9        9
Skulls...............      10       24       13       14
Totol mammalian....              49       64       25       26
Birds. Skins...................       406      564      222       232
Skulls................        22       27       10       11
Eggs................          18       51        9       30
Nests................      4       10        0        0
Total ornithological.......     450      642      241      273
Reptiles.........................      50       93       42        79
Fishes.....                     47      179       46       178
Insects..............            225      978      172       870
Crustaceans..................           5       13        4         5
Shells.................   2.51   2381      195     1585
_.     _..__
otal zological...........      1077     4351      713     301 3
C. J. KINTNER, (Alumnus.)
Walking stick (Diaphemora femorata.)
Lieut. FRANK D. BALDWIN, U. S. A.
Three complete skeletons of American bison-a bull, a cow and a


calf.




280
Skin of Jackass Rabbit (Lepus callotis.) Fort Harker, Xan,
G. P. VooRHEIS, ('72, White Lake.)
Snowy Owl (Nyctea nivea), Oakland Co.
DAVID L. BLACKBURN, Dundee.
Water Mole (Scalops aquaticus) mounted.
Gen. C. B. COMISTOCK, U. S. Lake Survey.
Twenty-two eitries, 40 specimens, drudged from the deep water
of Lake Superior,ia August and September 1871. In alcohol.
BRYANT WALKER, student, Detroit.
Land and Fresh-water shells-27 entries, 73 specimens.
Rev. GEORGE JUCIIAN, Robbinston, Me.
Skull of Dolphin (Delphinus rostratus).
ENES J. WARNER, Little Cotton Wood, Utah.
Two Lage Hens (Centrocercnes urophasiamns.)
Principal S. N. SANFORD, Cleveland, Ohio.
A living Cashmere Goat, since mounted.
Principal C. B. TrIoMIs, (Alumnus) Battle Creek.
Palatal teeth-of Fish (?)
MARCUS BAKER, ('70)
Two ego(s Hirundo bicolor.
One Cicindela sexgutiata.
S. J. HARDING, Owosso, Mich.
One Osprey (Pandion Carolinensis).
VOLNEY SPAULDING, '73, Ann Arbor.
One Shrew (Sorex cooperi) Ann Arbor.
NELSON B. BEERS, Virginia, Cass Co., Ill.
Hair Ball from stomach of calf.
MAX TEN BROOK, Ann Arbor.
Cast of skin of snake.
A. WINCIIRLL.
Unionidce from White River, Rockford, in southern Indiana.




281
III. BOTANY.
J. B. STEEBE, (Alumnus.)
The following is a summnary of botanical specimens-seceivod from
South America:


i),,  ISINCE LAST REP'T
I  S  It I Entries. Specms.
Dried  plants....................  120   336      63     263
Fruits..........................   9      379
W oods..........................  1(0     107
Total Botanical...........    822    22      166     559
The dried plants include many mosses and ferns. The woodspecimens are long enough for at least four samples each.
M. W. HARRINGTON, Assistant.
Dried plants from California-about 150 entries and 250 specimens.
C. J. KINTNER, (Alumnus.)
Receptacle and seeds of Nelumbo, (Neluimbiumn liteuin.)
LEVI JoHNsoN, Ann Arbor.
Curious malformation of an ear of Maize.
Dr. STEBBINS, California.
Fifteen samples of wood from California and Sandwich Islandsinlaid and polished.
J. C. JONES, ('72.)
Collection of Dried Plants, from north shore of Lake Superiorabout 60 entries (species) and 120 specimens.
IV. ARCHIEOLOGY        AND   ETHNOLOGY.
J. B. STEERE, (Alumnus.)
The whole number of specimens in this department received to




282


his time from South Amlerica, is 203 entries, 265 specimens. Received
since last report, 185 entries, 231 specimens...   A. ARRINGTON, Assistant.
The following articles were received from Alaska:
1 Parka (outer garment) made of ducks' and divers' skins, and
edged with hair-seal skin. Aleut, not common. Unalashka, Aleutian
Islands.
I Muskrat-skin Parka, with hood, edged with wolf-skin. EsquiImaux, St. Michael's.
1 Pair of Torbassa (boots) of reindeer skin. Indian, Nushagak
river.
1 Wooden Eye-shade, used in hunting. Aleut, Unalashka.
1 Kamalayka (outer water-proof shirt) made of wallrus-intestines,
and sewed with whale sinew. Aleut, Unga, Shumagin Ids.
1 Larger Aleut harpoon; bone-head, Unalashka.
3 Smaller ditto; bone-heads, Unalashka.
1 Aleut harpoon; iron lance head. Unalashka. This is the
killing spear.
1 Aleut harpoon; glass-head, with wooden sheath. Whaling
harpoon, Unalashka.
2 Casting-boards, for directing the harpoon and adding velocity
to its flight. Aleut, Unalashka.
Models of the one, two- and three-oared Bidarkas or Kyaks
(canoes) of the Aleuts. Made by the Aleuts at Unalashka.
Miss ELIZABETH ALLMENDINGE1R, Ann Arbor.
Specimen of bark from the stockades at Andersonvilie, S. C.
WILLIAM PAUL, Ann Arbor.
One flint Arrow-head.
SUMMARY OF ADDITIONS SINCE LAST REPORT.
Geological........................... 508 entries. 1766 specimens.
Zo  logical............................ 78  "    3144   "
Botanical.............................  393  "     946 
Archmological and Ethnological...... 202   "     249    "
Totals......................  1882 "   6105




283


RETROSPECT.
In concluding this report it seems natural to indulge in a brief retrospective glance. It is now 19 years since I became actually connected with the University, and 18, since my first connection with the
Department of Geology, Zoology and Botany. Within that time the
greater part of the collections in this Department, has been acquired;
and the Department of Archeology and Ethnology has first had an existence. At the time of my accession to this chair, the chief part of
the collections appertaining to it, consisted of a series of the rocks of
the State, collected by the geological survey under Dr. Houghton, and
corresponding sets of the birds and plants of the State. None of these
series are completed, though that of birds approaches the nearest to
completion.  No historical records of the museum were lknown to be
in existence; but some information was preserved in tradition, and
some was embraced in the proceedings of the Board of Trustees and
Regents of the University. With my accession to the chair of Geology, Zoology and Botany, I attempted to gather these scraps of information together; and commenced the preservation of a system of
historical records, which, from time to time, has been extended and
perfected. In October, 1863, I presented a Report to the Board of
Regents, in which I embodied all the important information extant,
in reference to the sources of the materials of the museum, (I speak
always of Geology, Zoology and Botany, alone) and included an analysis of its contents, as then existing. In September of each year since
that date, I have posted up the history of the museum in a Report of
Operations for the year preceding. I summarize, from these published records, the following list of chief sources of the materials of the
iMuseum in every department.
Sources of the Materials in the Museum.
1838-45 collections of the State Survey under Dr. Houghton, consisting of lithological, mineralogical, zoological tand botanical
specimens (for details, see my report of 1863).
1855 —"SMonds Collection" purchased. Chiefly marine shells.
1859 —"Trowbridoe Collection" deposited.  Donated in 1861. For
analysis, see report, 1863. A catalogue was also published.
1859-60 collections of State Survey under A. Winchell, consisting
chiefly of lithological and palheontological specimens; but including many fishes, and 278 species of plants not embraced in
earlier collections.




284
1863 —"White Collection" purchased. Mostly palicontological. For
analysis see report 1863.
1864-Collection of osteological preplarations presented by A. Winchell.
Smithsonian Institiution deposit of rocks and shells.
1865-Smithsonian Institution deposit of fossils from the Upper Missouri region.
1866-Collectioi of fossils made by Dr. Rominger under an appropriation by the Board.
Deposit of the "Rominger Collection" of European fossils.
Afterward purchased by the Board.
Numerous additions to tle collection of birds, and replacement
of old specimens by J. T. Coleman, tasxidermist.
Smithsonian Institution, deposit of lmarine slells.
W. J. Beal, marine imertebrates from the coast of New England, donated. To these Mr. Beal has added others at subsequent times.
" Sager Herbalrium ' donated.
1867-A. Winchell and students, collections resulting from an expedition to Lake Superior.
Smithsonian Institution. Ethnological specimenis.
1868-A. E. Foot. Dried plants and other specimens from L. Superior.
1869-"Van Vechten Collection" purchased; chiefly geological, from
California.
"Ford Collection " of shells purchased.
" Dr. Ames' Herbarium." Donated by the heirs.
1870-Smithsonian Institution deposit of British shells.
Dr. J. T. Scovell, zoological, botanical, and geological specimens, from Colorado.
Many old birds replaced by newly mounted specimens, by Mrs.
S. E. Becraft, taxidermist.
1871-Coimmen cement of reception of " Steere Collection " from South
America.
1869 —71-State Geological Survey, under direction of A  Winchell,
furnished type-specimens from the iron and copper regions. All
the other collections, for two years, remain in the University.
A. Winchell, collection from Sandy Hook, N. Y.
J. C. Jones, Dried plants from north shore of Lake Superior.
Others donated in 1872.




285
1872-J. B. Steere. Large collections from South America, in all (lepartments.
M. W. Harrington. Geological and botanical specimens from
California, and ethnological from Alaska.
Lieut. T.D. Baldwin.     Three complete skeletons of American
Buffalo.
In the details of the foregoing addlitions will be found in my Annual Reports, together with lists of a large number of minor collections from the friends of the University.
The   following    table  exhibits the progressive growth of the
[Museum:
GEGLOGY.        ZOOLOGY.      BOTANY.     ARCHiEOLOGY. GRAND TOTALS.
Entries Specim. Entries. Specim  Ent.      ntries.     ntries. Speci ntries.
1863    7,268 26,044  4,885 12,598  1,590  9,035              13,683  47.677
1866   10,318 33,562  6,319 15,261  3,447 15,50-1  50    50*  20.133  66,377
1867   11,118 35,562  6,628 16,5i2  3,513 15,629   96    96   21,365  67,829.1868  11,235 35,884  6,982 17,000  3,980 16,165  110    112   22,307  66,161
1869   12,398 36,966  8,194 22,403 1 5,536 34,235  180  182   26,308  93,786
1870   12,623 37,396  8,897 21,952  5,828 34,660  204   216   27,582  96224
1871   13,202 38,074  9,318 25,622  6,098 35,437  230   259   28,848  96,392
Jan.
1873   13,718 39,840 10,096 28,766  6,491 36,385  433   508   30,733 105,499
* Estimated for this. The "grand totals" given in my Annual Reports
do not include specimens in Archaeology and Ethnology. The totals in the
above table embody corrections required by latest determations.
The foregoing totals for January 1873, are believed to furnish an
unexaggerated statement of specimens now on the shelves of the Museum, or in a state of readiness to be placed there.   In addition to these
is a large accumulation of uninvestigated specimens, mlostly geological, which have accrued from the public surveys of the State.
It will be remembered that the foregoing totals do not elnlrace
the Mineralogrical Collection, nor the Art Collection, nor the laroe
collection in Comparative Osteology and other branches of Zoology,
incorporated in the iMuseum of the Medical Department.
Notwithstanding the rapid development of the museums of other
American colleges and universities, it is believed that only one surpasses our own, as yet, in the number of specimens.       It must be con



236


fessed, however, that our own Museum is notably deficient, though, by
no means wanting, in specimens difficult to obtain, whether domestic
or foreign; and that a set of the larger casts of fossils manufactured
by Professor H. A. Ward, of Rochester. is a desideratum of urgent importance.   Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER WINCHELL,
Prof. Geol. Zool. and Bot.
JANUARY 14, 1873.
On motion of Regent Willard, the Board went into executive session, at the close of which the Board resumed business in open session.
The following appropriations were recommended by the Finance
Committee:
For contingent expenses.........................$1000 00
L Repairs and alterations..................... 300 00
"    Fuel and  light................................  500  00
"  Postage........................................  200  00
" Anatomical plates.............................. 100 00
" Balance on account, due Prof. Winchell......... 125 83
" Apparatus for Department of Physics........... 250 00
"      ("    " Engineering Department......... 500 00
" Incidental expenses of Museum.................  50 00
"  Cases for Museum.............................  250  00
"  Regents' expenses..............................  59  50
Ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, and Rynd.
The following Report of the Dean of the Medical Faculty was
presented by Regent Rynd, and ordered printed in the minutes:
To the President and HIon. Board of Regents of the University of MichiGENTLEMEN,-The general uniformity of the current of events,
from year to year, in the course of instruction in the Medical Department, leaves little occasion for any detailed statement in our annual
Report on the state of its affairs. Our calendar exhibits a slight increase in the number of students in attendance during the term, the
difference being somewhat more than due to the increase in the number of ladies following the lectures.




287
With the exception of some slight cases of discipline, and somle
irregularities due to the ill health of some members of the Faculty,
the course has been marked by general good deportment and constancy of attendance of the students of the Department. The public
clinic has exceeded that of several former years.
The Hospital has, during nearly the entire term, been crowded to
an unhealthy excess, and the want of superior accommodations severely felt. Nearly all the patients are affected with some chronic
form of disease, and hence are obliged to remain for periods often
covering several weeks. The number of actual occupants of the Hospital during the t erm has been about 15, the larger number falling
to the care of the Professors of Surgery and Opthalmology, but many
also receiving the attention of the Professors of General Practice
and the Diseases of Females; and we think we do not overstep the
bounds of modesty by claiming a measure of success that will colmpare favorably with that of any other institution of similar character.
Of the 96 candidates for graduation, nine failed to satisfy the
Faculty completely in their examinations; of these, live were m1ales
and four females-the general average of the class beillg highly satisfactory. Rumor asserts that several members of our class entertain
views theoretically differing from our own, yet lno discrimination has
been made, whether i'n regard to advantages presented, or renquieinents made of them.
We cannot conclude without ag'ain calling the attention of your
Honorable Body to the urgent necessity of providing better an(l ampler Hospital accommodations than we now possess.
Respectfully s bruitted,
A. SAGER1, I)EAN.
On motion, the Board adjourne(l to 9 A.. i. Wednesday, MTarel
26, 1-873.
UNIVERS1TY OF AICHIGAN, 
PRESIDENTN'S ROOMI, Marlch 26, 1873. 
Board reassembled at 9 A. i.  No quoruum piresent. Adjoiurned
to Monday evening, June 23d, 1873, at 71 o'clock,
I. D. BENNETT. SECRKETARY.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,       I
ANN ARBOR, June 23d, 1872.
The Board of Regents assembled in regular session at the room
of the President at 7- o'clock p. M.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and Rynd.
The meeting was called to order and opened with the usual devotional exercises by the President.
The minutes of the last meeting of the Board were approved as
printed.
Regent Rynd presented two letters from Dr. Ellis, of Detroit, also
a communication from Prof. Maclean, which, on his motion, were
referred to the Committee on the Medical Department.
Regent Grant also presented a communication from Dr. Ellis, of
Detroit, which was referred to the same committee.
Regent Rynd presented to the University a handsomely framed
copy of the Vicksburg Daily Citizen, which was found in type when
that city was captured by the federal soldiers in 1863. On motion of
Regent Walker the thanks of the Board were tendered to Regent
Rynd for his valuable donation.
The President announced that a committee representing the State
Dental Association, of Michigan, were present, who desired to present
to the Board a memorial upon the subject of establishing a State
Dental School in connection uith the University.
Dr. W. H. Jackson, of Ann Arbor, in behalf of the committee,
read the memorial, which, on motion of Regent Willard, was referred
to the Committee on the Medical Department.
1




On motion of Regent Willard, Dr. 1). C. Hawxhurst, of Battle
Creek, was permitted to address the Board upon the subject. Regents
Rynd and Willard also expressed favorable views upon the question
under discussion, and said they should favor the establishment of a
Dental School in connection with the Medical Department of the University, whenever it was practicable for the Board to do so.
Regent Willard stated that a convention of Homeopathic Physicians was held in the city of Ann Arbor, May 7th, 1873, and at this
eonvention a committee consisting of Dr. F. Woodruff, of Ann Arbor,
and Dr. T. F. Pomeroy, of Detroit, was appointed to present the
names of the persons selected by the convention, from which the
Board were requested to appoint two Professors of Homeopathy,-one
to fill the chair of Theory and Practice-the other the chair of Materia
Medica,-if they should decide to elect such Professors as contemplated
by the action of the Legislature of this State at its late session.
Regent Willard also said that Dr. Pomeroy, with the permission of the
Boa:d, would present and read a memorial on the subject. Permission
was granted and the memorial was read. Dr. Woodruff by consent of
the Board, expressed his views fully upon the question under consideration, after which, on motion of Regent Rynd, the memorial was
referred to the Committe on Homeopathy, consisting of Regents Estabrook, Walker, and Willard.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Willard:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents proceed to elect t  t two Professors of Homeopathy in the Medical Department, one of Materia
Medica,, and one also of the Theory and Practice of Medicine, in
accord.ance with the requirements of the statute passed by the Legislature at its last session.
On motion of' Regent Rynd the resolution was made the special
order for Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock. The President stated that
Prof. E. W. Hilgard, Ph.D., of the University of Mississippi, had
expressed his willingness to accept the chair vacated by Prof. A. Winchell, whereupon Regent Walker presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents proceed to elect Dr. E. W
Hilgard, of Mississippi, Professor of Geology, Zoology, and Botany,
in place of Alexander Winchell, resigned.
The Ayes and Nays being called for, the result was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, Grant,
and Rynd.
Nnys-none.




291
On motion of Regent Walker the Board went into executive ses
sion, at the close of which Regent Gilbert offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That leave of absence be granted Prof. J. C. Watson,
for one year, commencing at the close of the next college year, in
order to enable him to accept the position of Astronomer-in-Chief of
the expedition to observe the transit of Venus at Pekin, China, which
occurs in the year 1874, to which he has been appointed by the United
States Government, and that he be permitted to make such arrangements in the time of giving instruction to his classes, as this absence
may require.
The resolution was adopted by the following vote;
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and
Rynd.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday at 8 o'clock A. r.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Tuesday, June 24th, 1872. S
The Board met in the room of the President at 8 o'clock A. M.
Present-a full Board, except Regents Burt and McGowan.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Rynd:
Resolved, That Mr. Mark W. Harrington, M. A., be appointed
Assistant Professor in Geology, Zoology, and Botany, at a salary of
$1,300 per year, from and after October 1st, 1873.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and
Rynd.
Regent Rynd also presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That Harry B. Hutchins, Ph.B., be and hereby is
appointed Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and History, at a salary of
$1,300 per year, from and after October 1st, 1873.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and
Rynd.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That Frank A. Scott, M. A., be appointed Instructor in
German, in place of Mr. Robert Harbison, resigned, and that Mr. T.
L. Gilpatrick, M. A., of Ohio, be appointed Instructor in Mathematics, in place of Mr. Marcus Baker, resigned, at the usual salary of
Instructors, salaries to commence with the next academic year.




292
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and
Rynd.
The following resolution, presented by Regent Willard, was
adopted.
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to provide
for such additional instruction in Latin as in their judgment may be
required for the year, commencing at the beginning of the next
academic year.
On motion the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock P, A.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Tuesday, June 24th, 1873. 5
The Board re-assembled in the room of the President, at 2
o'clock P. M.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and Rynd.
The following resolution presented last evening by Regent Willard
came up on the special order;
Resolved, That the Board of Regents proceed to elect two Professors of Homeopathy, in the Medical Department-one of Materia
Medica, and one also of the Theory and Practice of Medicine,-in
accordance with the statute passed by the Legislature at its last
session.
Pending the passage of this resolution, on motion of Regent
Rynd, Dr. Christian, of Wyandotte, read a paper, which was ordered
to be placed on file.
Regent Gilbert presented and read the following preamble and
resolutions, and stated that he offered them as a substitute for Regent
Willard's resolutions:
WHEREAS, The Legislature of the State of Michigan, at its last
session, re-enacted the law of 1855, requiring the appointment of two
Homeopathic Professors in the Medical Department of the University;
and
WHEREAS, it has always been claimed by the Board of Regents
that the law was an infringement upon the rights and prerogatives
of the Board; and
WHEREAS, The Supreme Court of the State has refused to grant
a mandamus requiring the Regents to comply with the law, thereby
substantially confirming their action; therefore,




293
Resolved, That we maintain the position heretofore taken, and
decline to make the appointments required by law.
Resolved, Further, that we do this in no spirit of factious opposition to the apparent will of the Legislature, but because we believe
the true and best interests of the University demand it.
Resolved, That we re-affirm  the former action of this Board
expressing a willingness to take official chIarge of an independent
school of Homeopathy and connect it with the University, whenever
the means shall be provided for the payment of its professors.
The resolutions presented by Regent Gilbert were discussed at
length by Regents Willard, Grant, and Rynd, and the ayes and nays
were called with the following result:
For the adoption of Regent Gilbert's substitute:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and Rynd.
Nay-Regent Willard.
The vote on Regent Willard's resolution was as follows:
Aye-Regent Willard.
Nays-Regents Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and Rynd.
The question recurring upon the original resolution as amended,
it was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regent Walker, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and Rynd.
Nay-Regent Willard.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the following degrees
were awarded, and on motion of Regent Walker, ordered to be conferred:
Civil Engineer.
Frank Bliss,                   Joseph William Perkins,
John Henry Darling,            Clarence Moore Stephens,
Thomas Emery,                  William Voight, Jr.,
Edwin Jacob Ferdon,            Josiah Wyatt Willis,
Frank Ward Guernsey,           Charles McAlister Winchell.
William John Head,
Bachelor of Science.
Arthur Giles Bishop,           Joseph Marvin Iewis,
Dwight Nathan Burritt,         Henry Howell Lockwood,
Henry Reed Cocker,             George Rust,
Wilhelmus Decker,              Zar Delavan Scott
Richard D'Armond Harrison,     Franklin Hiram Walker,
Joseph R. Keeney,              James William Yule.




294
Bachelor of Philosophy.
Elliot Hunt Brush,             Mary Frances Hapgood,
Alfred Erskine Brush,          John Maynard Hemingway,
William Flint Clark,           Charles Butler Keeler,
Samuel Townsend Douglass,      Herbert Dwight Peters,
Elias Durfee Galloway,         Marshall Key Ross,
Clark Hough Gleason,           Cyrus Obadiah Tower,
James Riddle Gough,            John L. White.
William Wallace Granger,
Bachelor of Arts.


William Benson,
Wilbur Buzzell,
William Henry Carrier,
Herbert Erastus Davis,
Charles Henry Dane,
Sidney Corning Eastman,
Henry William Elliott,
Henry Waterman Fairbank,
Frank Ward Far',
William Henry Fox,
Herschel Robert Gass,
Marshall Tlhomals Gass,
Henry Wisewell Gelston,
Robert Spear Gross,
Henry Marsh Haskell,
Wayne Hayman,
Albert Poole Jacobs,
Walter Monroe Keenan,
Charles Edward King,
Loyal Edwin Knapen,
Master o
D. W. Crouse,
H. P. Paroch,
J. C. Howland,
C. Olds,
Master
G. W. Bates,
W. W. Benian,
J. A. Blackburn,
F. Bradley,
C. F. Burton,
G. E. Dawson,


John Alexander McEldowney,
Judson Gregory Pattengill,
Sherwood Raymond Peabody,
Harry Otis Perley,
George Francis Robison,
Harry Russel,
William Smith Sheeran,
Volney Morgan Spalding,
Charles Cummings Stuart,
Ernest Taylor Tappey,
Edward Ernest Thayer,
Albinus Levi Todd,
Chas. McKinstry VanCleve,
Charles Russell Wells,
William Brown Williams,
Charles Lyman Wilson,
Charles Scotto Wilson,
Edward White Wood,
Eugene B. Woodruff,
Kimball Young.
f Science-in course.
P. H. Philbrick,
A. Perry,
James Sanders,
C. M. Wells.
of Arts-in course.
O. E. Haven,
J. E. Hinman,
E. C. Lovell,
V. S. Lovell,
W. F. Matthews,
T. C. Raynolds,




C. S. Edwards,
R. N. Fearon,
O. E. Fuller,
N. L. Guthrie,


295
W. B. Stevens,
O. L. Tindall,
S. R. Winchell.


Master of Arts-on examination.
W. H. Smith, B. A.
The following communication from the Department of Pharmacy
was received and read by Regent Rynd:
ANN ARBOR, June 24, 1873.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: The students whose lames are herewith submitted
have completed all tle requirements for graduation in Pharmacy, and
we respectfully recommend them for the degree of
Pharmaceutical Chemist.


Frank Ellis Bodemanln,
James Peter Boyd,
John Brown,
George Sherman Cook,
Austin Kent Hale,
Rufus Halsey McCarty,
Scott Rice,
Augustus Caesar Stephenson, 
Theodore Sedgwick Wilbur.


~Burlington, loiwa.
Ann Arbor.
Albion.
Brooklyn.
Adams, 1V. Y..Washington, D. C.
Sidney, Ohio.
Des Moines, lowla.
Albion, N. Y.


Very respectfully,
SILAS H. DOUGLAS. Prof. of Chemistry.
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT, Prof. of Pharmacy.
HENRY S. CHEEVER, Prof. of Materia Medica.
PRESTON B. ROSE, Assistant in Chemistry.
M. W. HARRINGTON, Instructor in Botany.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the Board awarded the degree, and
ordered it to be conferred.
The following communication was received from the Dean of the
Medical Department;
ANN ARBOR, June 20th, 1873.
To the Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: The Medical Faculty beg leave to present the gentlemen whose names are appended hereto as entitled to the degree of
Doctor of Regular and Scientific Medicine, viz:




296
Robert Bruce Best,            Joseph Edward Gaudy,
Isaac E. Brown,               Theodore Hudson Weirick,
John Calvin Craig,            James Harvey Wilson.
Respectfully submitted,
A. SAGER, Dean.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the degree was granted, and ordered
to be conferred.
Regent Estabrook presented the annual report of the Librarian,
which, on motion of Regent Willard, was accepted, and ordered
placed on file.
Regent Rynd presented the annual report of the Demonstrator of
Anatomy, and said he had, after a careful exmnination, found it correct, and moved that it be place on file. The motion prevailed.
Regent Willard presented the following resolution which was
adopted:
Resolved, That Chapter III., Section 14, of the Laws and By-Laws
of the University be made to read as follows:
Sec. 14. There shall be eight Standing Committees of the Board,
as follows: The Finance Committee, the Executive Committee the
Committee on the Literary Department, the Committee on the Law
Department, the Committee on the Medical, Chemical, and Pharmaceutical Department, the Committee on the Library, the Committee
on the Museum and Astronomical Observatory, the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds.
Other Standing Committees may also be raised by resolutions of
the Board.
A communication from Mr. Isaac H. Pedrick, of Chicago, was
read by Regent Grant, stating that he lost his original Diploma by the
great fire in October, 1871, and requesting that a duplicate be furnished him on payment of the usual fee. A duplicate Diploma was
ordered to be furnished to Mr. Pedrick.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board went into executive session, at the close of which the Board adjourned to 7 o'clock P. MI.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Tuesday, June 24th, 1873. 
The Board re-assembled at the room of the President at 7
o'clock P. M.




297
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and Rynd.
Regent Rynd stated that at a meeting of the State Medical Society lately held at Saginaw, a committee was appointed to meet the
Board of Regents, to advise with them  and the Medical Faculty in
regard to the condition and management of the Medical Department
of the University.  The committee being present, Regent Rynd
moved that they be permitted to state their -views upon such matters
of interest and importance as were pertinent to their mission here,
and of importance to the Board to understand. Permission having
been granted, Dr. Foster Pratt, of Kalamazoo, in behalf of the committee, read a paper, which, on motion of Regent Gilbert, was referred
to the Committee on the Medical Department, together with the Medical Faculty.
The following appropriations were recommended by the Finance
Committee:
FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
For fuel and light.........................   $4,000 00
" Contingent expenses....................... 1,500 00
" Repairs and alterations.......................  500 00
" Grounds.....................................  200  00
"  Postage.....................................  100  00
" Hospital balance.............................  200  00
4 Insurance..................................   300 00
FROM THE RESERVE INTEREST FUND.
For general library............................ $1,000  00
"    Law   library.................................  600  00
" Medical library.........................   400 00
Ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant, and
Rynd.
On motion of Regent Willard, the chairman of the Committee
on the Medical Department was requested to notify the committee
appointed by the State Society, whenever it might be convenient for
the two committees to meet in joint discussion of the paper read by
Dr. Pratt this evening.
A communication from the Adjunct Professor of Physics, stating
the condition and wants of his department in regard to apparatus, was
presented by Regent Gilbert, wlich, on his motion, was laid on the
table until the next meeting.




298
The Board went into executive session on motion of Regent Walker,
at the close of which, the business of the meeting was resumed in
open session.
Regent Willard presented the following report:
The Committee on the Literary Department, to whom was referred the resolution to confer the degree of Bachelor of Arts upon Hon.
William B. Wesson, of Detroit, a member of thd class of 1845, in the
Department of Literature, Science, and Arts, would respectfully
report that they have considered the same and recommend that the
degree be conferred, and that the name of Mr. Wm. B. Wesson be enrolled among the graduating members of the class to which he
belonged.
The report was adopted, the degree granted, and ordered to be
conferred.
It was also voted that the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws be
conferred on Hon. Thomas M. Co;)ley.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Gilbert, naid
adopted:
Resolved, That the officers of the Students' Lecture Association hbe
permitted to use the auditorium in the inew Un1iversity Hall Building
for lecture purposes, on condition that the expelnse of lighting, heating, and cleaning, andic all damages done by them while using the same
be paid by the Association or by the officers thereof.
Recent Rvnd offered the folllowimng resolution:
Resolved, That arrangements for dedicating the new University
Hall, after it shall have been completed, may be made by the Comnmittee on the new University Building, together witlh the President.
Adopted.
The attention of the Board having been called to the necessity of
a night watchman to look after the University Building and other
property upon the grounds, especially a as  protection against fire, the
matter on motion was referred to the President and the Steward, with
power to do as they deemed best until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, $41 25 were appropriated to pay
Regents' expenses, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert. Estabrook, Grant, and
Rynd.
Voted that the Board adjourn to Wednesday, June 25th, at 9
o'clock A. M.




299
UNIVEERSITY OF MICI-J.GAN,  i
Wednesday, June 25th, 1873. S
Board met at 9 o'clock A. zI., in the room of the President.
Present-the President, Regents Walker, Estabrook. and Grant.
No quorum being present the Board adjourned s/oie die.
H. I. B NN ETTI"r, SEi(RlkrEARY.




OCTOBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Tuesday Evening, Oct. 7th, 1873.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the President at
71 o'clock P. M.
Present, the President-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt,
Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
The minutes of the last meeting were approved as printed.
The President announced that his annual report, also the reports
of the Librarian and of the Professor of Geology, Zoology and Botany
were lying upon his table, subject to the action of the Board.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the President read his report, Regent Willard in the chair. On conclusion of the reading of the report,
on motion of Regent Walker, it was accepted and ordered printed in
the minutes.
The reports of the Librarian and of Dr. E. W. Hilgard were referred to the appropriate committees.




PRJESIDENXTaS ANNUAL BEP0RiT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I have the honor to lay before you my report for the year,
which ended on June 26, I873.
More changes than usual have occurred in our corps of Professors. Immediately after Commencement in 1872, De Volson
Wood, M. A., Professor of Civil Engineering, resigned his place
to accept a chair in the Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N. J. A few weeks later, Alexander Winchell, LL.D.,
announced his intention of resigning the chair of Geology, Zoology and Botany in January, I873, to accept the office of
Chancellor of the Syracuse University. He kindly consented,
however, to remain till near the close of the first semester, to
complete the full course of instruction in Geology. In January,
1873, Moses Coit Tyler, M. A., resigned the chair of Rhetoric
and English Literature, to engage in editorial work in New York.
He had been a member of the Faculty six years, Mr. Wood thirteen years, and Dr. Winchell nineteen years. They had all rendered most valuable service to the University, and it was with
regret that their associates and their pupils saw them depart for
their fields of labor.
The following gentlemen were appointed at the end of last
year, or at the beginning of this year:
Charles E. Greene, M. A., C. E., Professor of Civil Engineering. Donald Maclean, M. D., Lecturer on Surgery. Joseph
B. Davis, C. E., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering.
Charles S. Denison, C. E., Instructor in Engineering and Drawing.  Isaac N. Demmon, M. A., Instructor in Mathematics.
Harry B. Hutchins, Ph. B., Instructor in History and Rhetoric.
Alfred Hennequin, B. A., Instructor in French.




303
In February, I873, Mr. Leslie Irving was employed to give
instruction during the second semester in Rhetoric and English
Literature. Prof. D'Ooge, who had been in Europe two years,
returned to his post at the beginning of the year; and Mr. Harrington, Instructor in Geology, Zoology and Botany, returned
from Alaska in January. Dr. Frieze has been absent by permission, in Europe. Marcus Baker, M. A., Instructor in Mathematics, resigned his post in March, to accept the place of astronomer to a government expedition to Alaska.  Robert Harbison,
M. A., who has for two years been a most efficient Instructor in
German, resigned his work in June.
The following gentlemen were appointed in June last:
Eugene W. Hilgard, Ph. D., Professor of Geology, Zoology
and Botany. Frank A. Scott, M. A., Instructor in German. T.
L. Gilpatrick, M. A., Instructor in Mathematics.
The whole number in our Faculties of instruction has been
forty, two more than in the previous year.
THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS.
When the Calendar was printed, the total number of students present was I,I63. Thirteen entered afterwards.    The
total attendance during the year was I,I76, as follows:
Department of Literature, Science and the Arts.
Resident Graduates,...                    9
Seniors,.......        78
Juniors,.......     72
Sophomores,......   2
Freshmen,.....      22
In Selected Studies,....   34
In Pharmacy,......      48
Total,......484
Department of Medicine.
Students,...                        358
Department of Law.
Seniors, 122; Juniors, 212; total,... 334
Total in University,...  I,I76




304


The total attendance was not quite so large as it was in the
preceding year. There was a slight increase in the number in
the Medical Department, but a little decline in the other Departments. With our large numbers slight fluctuations are to be expected. Probably the continued elevation of our standard of
admission not only cuts off, on examination, a considerable proportion of applicants, lut also deters many others from applying
for examination. When we consider how Medical and Law
schools are multiplying in the West, it is somewhat surprising that
the attendance upon our professional schools is so well maintained.
The proportion of Michigan students to the whole number
varies very little from year to year. Of the total attendance last
year, 46 per cent. belongs to Michigan; in the Literary Department, 63 per cent.; in the Medical, 35 per cent.; in the Law
Department, 34 per cent. In I87I-2, the percentage in the
Medical and Law Departments was exactly the same, in the Literary Department 64, in the University, (all Departments,) 47
per cent.
Twenty-nine States and Territories, and Ontario (Canada)
Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, the Hawaiian Islands, and Japan
furnish us students. Illinois sends us most after Michigan, I42;
Ohio, 108; New York, 77; Pennsylvania, 60; Indiana, 50;
Massachusetts, 17; Maine, 7; Vermont, 6. New England furnishes us 33. It is obvious that our work is national in its breadth,
as is becoming in a University, which is founded upon a national
endowment. Michigan is however in part at least compensated
for the generosity, with which she offers almost gratuitously the
opportunity for gaining collegiate and professional education
to the son: of other States, by the constant accession to her population of cultivated men, who attracted here by the facilities for
study, remain on her soil to adorn the walks of professional and
business life.
We are pleased to see that very few of our students are not
pursuing some one of our three regular courses. The total number registered in our Calendar as engaged in selected studies is
only 28. Last year it was 46. Of these 28 not more than 15 are




305
really intending to continue in a select course. The others are
striving to enter upon some regular and complete course, but yet
are lacking sufficient proficiency in some one or more branches
to take their places in the class they propose to join.
Of the students in the regular courses about 43 per cent
have this year pursued the Classical Course, i8 per cent the Latin
and Scientific Course, and 39 per cent the Scientific Course.
Compared with the previous year there has been a slight increase
in the relative proportion of students in the Scientific Course. It
is probable that the increased requirements for admission to the
Scientific Course may reduce this proportion.
The number of women, who enroll themselves as students in
the University continues to increase. Two years ago it was 37;
in 1871-2 it was 64; in 1872-3 it was 88.  The attendance of
women was, by Departments, as follows; in the Law Department
4; in the Medical Department 40; in the Academic Department
45. These last were according to the Calendar distributed as follows: Resident Graduates 2; Senior Class i; Junior Class 7;
Sophomore Class 8; Freshmen Class 20; Select Course 5; Pharmacy 2. Of the 35 in the regular courses of study, 14 pursue the
Classical, I4 the Latin and Scientific, and 7 the Scientific. Of
the graduates 8 are women; i in the Law Department, i in the
Literary, and 6 in the Medical.
The history of our work during the past year has only deepened the impression made during the two previous years, of the
entire practicability of imparting collegiate and professional education to the two sexes in the same schools.  If any have cherished a fear that the admission of women would tend to
reduce the standard of work in the University, their attention
may be directed to the fact that during the last three years we
have been steadily increasing the requirements for admission and
broadening the range of studies. Now certainly the women experience no such difficulty in acquiring the studies assigned in
the regular curriculum as to call for any modification of the
course on their account. Their record is as creditable in all
branches as that of their classmates of the other sex. Nor do I




306


see any evidence that their success in their intellectual pursuits is
purchased at the expense of health. On the contrary I doubt if
an equal number of young women in any other pursuit in life
have been in better health during the year.  I am persuaded that
with ordinary care and prudence, any one of our courses of study
may be completed by a young woman of fair ability without undue draft upon her strength. None of the many objections, which
are still raised against the co-education of the sexes have thus been
found in practice here to have any force. The admission of
women has led to no new difficulty or embarrassment in the
administration of the Institution. It has certainly brought to a
large class the benefits of such an education as otherwise would
have been out of their reach, and has awakened through the
State and the country and even in foreign lands a new interest in
the University.
NUMBER OF GRADUATES.
The following is the number of degrees conferred:
Pharmaceutical Chemist,...       9
Civil Engineer,......
Bachelor of Science,.                          12
Bachelor of Philosophy,....        15
Bachelor of Arts,....     40
Doctor of Medicine,.....             9
Bachelor of Law,......    I23
Master of Science (in course),...    8
Master of Arts (in course),....       9
Master of Arts (on examination),...    i
Total,.....    329
The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was also conferred
on one person.
THE REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
We have been for some time gradually raising the standard
of requirements for admission, as the High Schools of the State
have been elevating their courses. We asked last year a twelvemonth's study of French of the candidates for admission to the




307


Latin and Scientific Course, and secured very creditable preparation in that language. This year we ask the same of the candidates
for the Scientific Course, and also the Elements of Natural
Philosophy, Botany, Geology and Zoology.  Heretofore the
preparation of students for this course has been almost exclusively
mathematical, and it has been found very desirable that they
should have had training in some other direction. The additional requirements are those which, answering this purpose, it
was supposed the schools of the State could most easily furnish.
It may perhaps be open to discussion whether somewhat extended
studies in English could not be profitably substituted for the
elements of the Natural Sciences.  But after conference with
some of the leading teachers, it has been thought best at present
to try the plan announced in the Calendar.
OUR RELATIONS WITH THE HIGH SCHOOLS.
We desire to keep in complete harmony with our schools,
and to advance no faster than they can follow. The spirit and
energy with which they press on in support of us are worthy of
all praise, and we should ever be glad to recognize their hearty
cooperation.
We have now finished our second year's trial of receiving
without examination the graduates of High Schools, which have
been inspected and approved by the Academic Faculty, and I
think there is no difference of opinion in the Faculty concerning
its salutary effect. In 1871-2 we received 50 Freshmen from six
schools. Last year we received 40 Freshmen from five schools.
We have suffered no embarrassment from this source in respect
to the quality of the preparation of our Freshmen. The Superintendents and Teachers of the approved schools evidently feel the
responsibility of being made virtually examiners for admission to
the University, and of thus becoming thoroughly identified with
us. The visits of our Committees keep us constantly in intimate
relations with the schools, and according to the testimony of the
Superintendents furnish a valuable help and stimulus to the
schools. The Faculty after examination voted to receive for the
coming year the graduates of the following schools: Detroit,




308
Flint, Pontiac, Jackson, Adrian, Coldwater, Grand Rapids,
Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor.   Other schools in the State will
probably next year be organized on a sufficiently broad basis and
well enough equipped and manned to be placed on the same
footing. We are certainly approximating towards a more substantial unity in our public system of education than any other
State in the Union.
THE WORK OF THE YEAR.
It is impossible to find any measure of the work accomplished by our teachers and students during a year.  It can
only be said in general terms that we have proceeded without any
serious interruption and with the usual assiduity. The breaking
out of the small-pox among the medical students threatened for a
brief period to interfere with the work in the Medical Department, but the lectures were not suspended. Unfortunately, the
disease caused the death of four of the medical students and of
one of the students in Pharmacy.
In the various examinations which have been held during
the year, students have been "conditioned" in one hundred and
sixty nine cases, that is, owing to their deficiency have been required to pass another examination on a certain portion of the
study pursued; and have " failed to pass" upon some one study
in seventeen cases, that is, have failed so signally that they are
required to pursue the study again with the class below them.
One student has been expelled, and one suspended for a
year, for disorderly conduct.
Our courses, with the exception of the Engineering Course,
are so arranged, and probably with wisdom, that in the first two
years the demands imperatively made upon students are decidedly heavier than in the last two years. The theory is that in
the last half of the college life of the sudent, he should have more
leisure left him for reading and for such broad and generous
study as the more advanced studies of the course invite and encourage. This privilege, which is properly granted to all, will be
abused by some, the lazy and indifferent, who desire to do only
so much as is necessary to secure a diploma. Hence the policy




309


upon which our curriculum is arranged, is sometimes criticized.
But surely, it would be folly to deny this opportunity to the industrious and aspiring for the sake of forcing a little more labor
out of a few men, who would do it as mere task work and bring
from it no satisfactory results. A collegiate course cannot be
wisely shaped with primary reference to driving drones to work.
It should provide every manly and noble incentive to worthy
achievement.
We have thought that something would be gained in heartiness and enthusiasm in work, if we should offer larger opportunities for choice of studies in the latter part of the course, and
especially in the senior year. Accordingly we have offered an
almost unlimited option of advanced studies to all the seniors except the Engineers, who are necessarily compelled to keep their
work within narrower limits, which are fixed by the technical
needs of their future profession. As our courses are arranged, by
the end of the Junior Year, the students have laid the foundation
of attainments in all the various departments of thought, except
Philosophy, which will engage their attention before graduation.
It seems well, therefore, that while the study of Philosophy should
then be insisted on as essential to every educated man, the mature
student should be permitted to concentrate his energies during
the last year upon such other branches as he may choose. A
large class will thus by natural choice be broken into sections,
which are not too large to work profitably together, and will
bring to their studies, it may be hoped, a zeal and freshness
which will ensure the happiest results.
THE OBSERVATORY.
The Professor of Astronomy has been engaged, in addition to
his duties in giving instruction, in continuing his work of observing small stars near the Ecliptic, and his work upon the Lunar
Theory. He discovered two more new planets during the last
academic year, making in all fifteen which have been discovered
at this Observatory up to that date.*


*Prof. Watson has since the end of the Academic Year discovered two more,
making the whole number seventeen.




310


THE MUSEUM.
We have been receiving very valuable collections from Mr.
J. B. Steere, who has been continuing his labors in South America. The zoological and botanical specimens which he has sent
are of great interest, but perhaps the objects, which illustrate the
life of the ancient Incas are of equal importance. We are also
indebted to many of our alumni and other friends for donations.
Prof. Winchell in his last report takes occasion to review the
growth of the Museum, since he took charge of it. It appears
that in the Departments of Geology. Zoology, Botany and
Archaeology, we have 30,733 entries and Io5,4(9 specimens, and
that, as is believed, the museum of only one of our institutions of
learning surpasses ours in the number of specimens. By far the
larger part of this collection has been made during the period of
Prof. Winchell's service.' He has thus left behind him a'fitting
memorial, which will ever testify to his long and faithful labors
in the University.
THE LIBRARY.
There have been added to the General Library during the
year by donation 547 volumes, by purchase, 283 volumes and
65 pamphlets. The number of reviews, magazines and newspapers
on the tables was 143. Of these 78 were furnished by the Students' Lecture Association.  The work of cataloguing  and
arranging the Parsons' Library  have been  continued.  It
gives me pleasure to say that the liberal thoughtfulness of the
donor of that Library, Philo Parsons, Esq., has this year made
important additions to our Library, especially of works upon Political Economy and International Law:  It is becoming apparent that the time is not distant when we shall be in pressing
need of a library building. The room, which we at present occupy, is already somewhat crowded, and moreover is desired by
the Law Department, for whose service it was intended. I hope
too that at no remote day the resources of the L  ary will
be so increased that a few thousands of volumes of the kind of
books, which students most frequently need, may be set apart to




311


be drawn by the readers and taken to their rooms. I think that
while no serious abuse would flow from the privilege, it would be
of real service to the students.
UNIVERSITY HALL.
We were able to occupy the lecture rooms and the Chapel
in University Hall about the middle of last October.  This
was a great relief to our classes, who had been crowded into our
old rooms in so rapid succession that it was impossible to preserve
at the same time proper temperature and ventilation. The rooms
are light and cheerful and answer their purpose admirably, with
the exception perhaps of the lecture rooms on the ground floor,
which will be entirely serviceable, when the floors are properly
deadened. Our wonder is that we were able to dispense for
so long a time with the accommodations now provided for us. I
cannot but call attention again to the fact that we urgently need
an organ for the Chapel and another for the new hall. Since
two such instruments as we need can be procured in Germany for
$3,000, may we not hope that some friends of the University will
furnish us with them?
THE PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS.
Notwithstanding the multiplication of schools of law and of
medicine in the west, the attendance upon our professional schools
shows no signs of falling off. Students are drawn to them from
all parts of the Union, and from beyond our national boundary.
In general, the professional students devote themselves to their
work with assiduity.  A considerable number, especially of the
law students, pursue one study with the undergraduate classes, as
they are all permitted to do under our rules.  The old question,
what requirements, if any, shall be made for admission to these
schools, is still unanswered, or is practically answered by making
no requirement of intellectual attainment.  It is a difficult question in view of the fact that practically no requirement is
made elsewhere in the country.  I am inclined to believe that
the most we can at present easily do is to ask for a substantial
knowledge of the fundamental elements of an English education.




312


But so much we should do, and make the examinations a reality.
Written examinations even of our large classes could be conducted without great labor, and would, I hope, save us the presence
of some persons, who do us no credit while they are here or after
they leave us. I still look however to the general diffusion of education through our constantly improving schools for our help in
this regard.
The crowded state of our little hospital during the year furnishes another argument if any is needed, for the establishment of
a larger and more commodious hospital either by private or by
public benefactions. Various plans for accomplishing this end
have been considered, but none seems yet to be feasible for us.
OUR SUPPLIES AND OUR NEEDS.
In my last Report I expressed the confident hope that the
State would relieve us of the embarrassments, with which we
were threatened by the inadequacy of our income to meet our increasing expenses.  That hope was not delusive.  The Legislature, reflecting in its action the obvious wishes of the people,
made prompt and generous provision for our help. They voted
us $13,000 to meet the deficit in our last year's account, and
$25,000 to complete University Hall, and in place of the annual
appropriation of $I5,ooo, which we have had for many years,
the proceeds of a tax of one-twentieth of a mill on the ratable
property of the State, provided that the sum thereby appropria.
ted shall not exceed $50,000 annually before i88I.  This tax
will yield now $31,500, but at the next appraisal of the property
of the State in 1876 will of course furnish a handsome increase.
The Legislature and the State may be assured that the University
fully appreciates this ready and liberal response to her statement
of her needs.  Our friends however ought not to suppose that
this increase of our resources will for the present allow us to enlarge our work in any particular. It simply enables us, by the
use of great economy, to continue upon the same scale as at present, without incurring debt. We cannot yet add a single professor to our corps. We cannot vet procure many of those appliances for illustrating instruction, which we hardly know how to




313


dispense with. We can make no important addition to the Libraries. Still less can we take any large steps toward that expansion of our scientific work, which is so imperatively demanded at
our hands.  But we gladly interpret the action of the Legislature
as a fresh proof of the purpose of the State to sustain the University as a part of her educational system.  We trust that pr vate
munificence will not deny itself the rich reward, which flows
from the endowment of a seat of learning like this, but we cherish
an abiding confidence that the pride and affectionate interest of
the State in the University will ever insure it a vigorous and
useful life.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANGELL.
Regent Rynd in behalf of the Committee on Medical Department,
to whom were referred the papers read by Dr. Pratt of the State Medical Association, and of Dr. Hawxhurst from the Committee of the
State Dental Association, stated that he was not ready to report, and
asked for further time, which was granted.
The following communication was received and read by Regent
Rynd.
ANN ARBOR, OCT. 7th, 1873.
To the lion. Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-In behalf of Prof. Cheever and himself, the undersigned would respectfully ask leave of absence from duty as lecturers for
one year. They indulge the hope that by availing themselves of the
sanative influence of a more congenial climate, they may be restored
to their usual health, and be able to resume their work as heretofore.
Very Respectfully,
A. SAGER,
Dean of Faculty.
Regent Rynd presented the following resolution which was
adopted.
Resolved, That Dr. Sager and Dr. Cheever be granted leave of absence for one year, and further that they be respectfully requested to
report to this Board at its March meeting, in regard to their probable
future relationship to the University.
The tfllowing report was presented and read by Regent Gilbert,
Chairman of the Finance Committee, and ordered printed in the
minutes.




314
REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE.
The Finance Committee submit herewith the annnal report of the
financial condition of the University for the year ending June 30th,
1873.
The receipts into the Treasury during the year have been as
follows:
GENERAL FUN).
Balance on hand July I, I872, as per Treasurer's Report...$ 20,225 46
(Of this amount $14,89S 83 was due that day for salaries, leaving an actual
balance belonging to the University of $5,326 63.)
Received from State Treasurer on account of University Int.
Fund............................................  38,667  oo
Of State Treasurer, Annual State Aid.................... I5,000 oo
"   "      "      Account of 1873 for Deficit..........  13,000 oo
Received  for  Students' Fees.............................  23,005  oo
Rec'd of University Treasurer for Int. on funds in his
hands..............................................   91  88
Proceeds of a temporary $7000 loan......................  6,879 i8
A loan to Building Fund repaid........................   7,500 oo
Total...............................$124,468 52
The disbursements have been as follows:
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid for Salaries and Janitors'wages the last
quarter of the previous year, and the first
three quarters of the current year..........$ 73,392 i6
Paid for account of Gen. Library.............  1,300 00
(   (" " i" Med.        "..............    400 00
"   "     "   " Law     "..............   550 00
Loan to Building Fund (repaid)...............  7,500 oo
Paid Sixty-day Loans.......................   7,000 co
Contingent Expense ac....................... I7,274 65
Amount of bal. to Cr. of Gen. Fund........... I7,0o5 71
Total............................ --   — $I24,468 25
Of the above balance of $I7,051 71 to the credit of the General
Fund at close of the fiscal year there was due that day for salaries of
the last quarter of the previous year the sum of $15,262 50, leaving as
an actual balance in the Treasury $1,789 21; and in the hands of the
Secretary of the Board balance of unexpended appropriations, $583 66.
The total amount appropriated during the year for contingent expenses was $17,274 65, for the following purposes:




315
For repairs and alterations..................$ 1,800 oo
For Insurance.................................,600 oo
For Fuel and Light........................... 4,5I8 45
For  Hospitals...............................  i,296  40
For Postage.................................  300  oo
For Care of University Ground.................     200 oo
For Regents Expenses.......................        204 30
For Advertising Med. Dept.....................   I5  00
For Glass  W are................................    50  oo
For Annual Announcements...................   75 oo
For Apparatus for Dept. of Physics..........     658 67
For  Diplomas..................................    22I  50
For Lightning Rods.........................         87 70
For Incidental Expenses of Museum...........     50 oo
For Repairs of Laboratory Boiler..............    233 34
For Museum Cases..........................       250 oo
For Apparatus for Engineering Dept.....   478 95
For Int. on Deferred Warrants...............    74 51
For Steward's Contingent Expense ac........... 4,925 83
Total................................ ----     $17,274 65
Unexpended bal. in hands of Sec. of the Board...         $   583 66
The Vouchers for the above, presented by the Secretary of the
Board have been examined by Regent Grant and found correct.
RESERVE FUND.
Michigan 7 per cent Bonds................................$ 7,000 00oo
East Saginaw Io per cent Bonds..........................   6,500 oo
Ann Arbor 7 per cent Bonds.............................. 3,200 oo
Manchester o1 per cent Bonds............................. 1,500 00
Midland City io per cent Bonds...........................,000 ooo 00
Total.........................................$I9,200  oo
And the amoant now in the treasury to the credit of interest paid on
the funds is $2,182 67.
The receipts for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1874 are estimated as follows:
Balance on  hand July  I,  I873............................$  I7,051  71
From the State for Interest on University Funds......... 38,000 oo
Annual State Aid (act of 1873).......................... 31,500 oo
Students'  Fees..........................................  20,000  oo




316
R ents..................................................  250   0o
Interest on Treasurers' Account.........................  250 oo
Total................................$07,05 71
The disbursements for the same time are estimated as follows:
For Salaries due June 30, 1873................ $ 15,262 50
"     '"   the first three-quarters of the current year.................................  58,500  o o
For Annual Catalogue........................,200 00
For Insurance................................   1,800  oo
For repairs..............................   1500  oo
Fuel and Light...............................  4,000 oo
For Libraries...............................  2,500  oo
For Improvement of Grounds..................  400 oo
For Steward's Contingent account.............  4,000 oo
For Salaries of the last quarter of the current
year due and payable June 30, 1874.....   5,925 00
Unpaid account for catalogue of 1872-3........,000 00
Total..............................  ----  $Io6,o87 50
Probable Surplus...................             964 21
The Finance Committee will not at this time make a detailed report on the cost of the new building, preferring to wait until the next
meeting of the Board, when the building will be fully completed and
all bills presented.
The Report of the Treasurer herewith presented shows payments
on account of the building for the year ending June 30th, I873,
$75,198 84.
The Committee can however now state, that the cost of the building will exceed the appropriations made by the Legislature by the
amount of the interest we have been obliged to pay on money borrowed
in anticipation of the tax raised for its construction.
The Board will notice that our unavoidable expenses keep pace
with the appropriations made for the support of the University, and
that it will be necessary to keep strictly within the estimates in all expenditures. In the year I876 we may expect a considerable addition to
our income under the operations of the Act of 1873, but until that time
have no reason to expect any material addition to our present income
of about $90ooo.
The annual report of the Treasurer is herewith presented.
THOS. D. GILBERT, 
H. A BURT,            Corn.
C. B. GRANT,         )




317


Regent McGowan moved that a committee of three be appointed
by the President to examine the rooms set apart for the use of the
Engineering Department, and report the alterations and repairs needed, at the next meeting of the Board.  The motion prevailed and the
President appointed Regents McGowan, Willard and Grant such committee.
The following preamble and resolution presented by Regent Rynd
was adopted unanimously.
WHEREAS, His Excellency, Gov. John J. Bagley transmitted on
the 29th day of September last. some ninety or more copies of medals
ordered by Congress. by States, and by private parties at different
times, with a beautiful and suitable table on which they may be exhibited as a donation to the University; therefore
Resolved, That the Board of Regents hereby tender their hearty
thanks to his Excellency for his interesting and valuable and peculiarly
appropriate gift.
Regent Rynd presented and read the following notice and requested that it should be printed in the minutes.  The request was
granted.
"I hereby give notice that I shall at the next meeting of the
Board of Regents, ask for the adoption of such regulations as shall
secure an enlarged literary culture on the part of students entering the
graduating class of the Medical Department of the University, and the
enforcement of such regula ions as may be agreed upon.  I shall also
ask that such modifications be made in the Department as will ensure
a higher grade of professional acquirement on the part of graduates.'
The annual report of the Librarian was read by Regent Estabrook,
and on motion of Regent Walker it was accepted and ordered placed
on file.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution:
Resolved. That the application of F. W. Corliss for an honorary degree be referred to the Committee on Classical Course.
The res lution was so referred.
Regent Rynd real a communication from Dr. A. J. Hamilton, a
graduate of the Medical Department of the University of Michigan,
Class of 1870, stating that his Diploma had been destroyed by fire,
whereupon Regent Rynd offered the following resolution which was
adopted:
Resolved. That the Steward is hereby instructed to furnish a duplicate diploma to Dr. A. J. Hamilton of the Medical Department Class
of I870, upon payment of the usual fee.
2




318


Regent McGowan, on motion of Regent Willard, was appointed
to prepare the Annual Report of the Board to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution which was
adopted 
Resolved, That Five Hundred extra copies of the President's Report be printed for distribution, and for the use of the Board.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, 1cGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Willard and
adopted:
Resolved, That no application for a degree shall be acted upon by
the Board previous to its submission to the appropriate Faculty of the
University.
Regent Burt, Chairman of the Committee on Museum, read the
reports of Dr. E. W. Hilgard and Prof.. W.  Harrington on the condition and wants of their departments.  He also presented the following resolution.
Resolved, That the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars be appropriated and placed at the disposal of Prof. E. W. Hilgard, to be used in
such improvements in his department as he may deem necessary.
Ayes-Regents Willard, Walker, Gilbert, Burt, MeGowen, Estabrook, Grant and Rynd.
The following resolutions were presented by Regent Walker and
unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be tendered to Capt. W.
H. Dall, of the U. S. Coast Survey, for his valuable donation of suites
of Alaskan plants.
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be tendered to Prof. M.
W. Harrington for his valuable gift of about two thousand species
of plants to the University.
On motion-the Board went into executive session, at the close of
which the regular business of the meeting was continued in open
session.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Grant:
Resolved, That Mr. Leslie Irving be appointed acting Professor of
the English Language and Literature for the current year at a salary
of Two Thousand Dollars.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution:




319
Resolved. That Mr. Seneca Haselton, B. A., be appointed Instructor
in Mathematics at the usual salary.
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, Me
Gowan, Grant and Rynd.
The following resolution was also offered by Regent McGowan.
Resolved, That Edward S. Dunster, M. D., be appointed Lecturer
upon Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children for the present
year, during the absence of Professor A. Sager, at the usual salary, and
that Frederick H. Gerrish, M. D., be appointed Lecturer on Therapeutics, Materia Medica and Physiology for the current year, in the absence of Prof. H. S. Cheever, M. D., at the usual salary.
On motion of Regent Burt it was
Resolved, That a Special Committee of three be appointed by the
President to revise the committees of the Board and define the duties
of the several committees, and report at the next meetingof the Board.
Regents Walker, Willard and Gilbert were appointed such comr-.
meittee.
Regent Grant presented the fbllowing resolution which was
adopted.
Resolved, That the question of Librarianship of the General Library, and the employment of assistants, be referred to the Library
Committee with instructions to report fully atthe next meeting of the
Board, what, in their opinion, the best interests of the University require us to do.
The following resolution presented by Regent Rynd was adopted:
Resolved, That Regents Grant. McGowan and Walker be and are
hereby instructed to secure such legal counsel as they may deem necessary to defend the interests of the University in the suit now pending.
The following appropriations were made on recommendation of
the Finance Commiittee.
For Contingent Expenses..................... $I,ooo o0
For Insurance.......................................$I,ooo oo
For Fuel and Light.:...................................  6o0 oo
For Alterations and Repairs..............................  500 oo
For Regents' Expenses...................................  126  95
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Walker, Willard, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant and Rynd.
On motion of Regent Burt the Board adjourned to Tuesday evening, January 6th, 1874.
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




DECEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, December 26, 1873. 
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the President on
call of the Executive Committee.
Present, the President-Regents Walker, Willard, Gilbert, Burt,
Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Rynd.
The meeting was called to order by the President, who read a
passage from the scriptures and offered prayer.
The reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with, and they were approved as printed.
Regent McGowan, who was appointed at the last meeting to prepare the Annual Report of the Board to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, stated that he had performed that duty. On motion,
of Regent Walker the report was read, approved, and ordered to be:
transmitted by the Secretary to the Superintendent without delay.
Regent Gilbert, Chairman of the Building Committee, stated that
he was not ready to present the final report of that committee at this
meeting, in consequence of several unsettled claims which might
require the presence of the Superintendent at the time of settlement.
At some future meeting he would present a final report.
Regent Rynd, Chairman of the Committee on Increased Requirements for Admission to the Medical Department, stated that he was
not ready to report, but wished further time to procure additional
information upon the subject. On motion further time was granted.
The Special Committee appointed to examine the condition of the
rooms and apparatus of the Engineering Department, reported
through Regent Grant that they had performed that duty, and that
they approved of the change already made, and recommended that
other needed improvements be made at the earliest practicable time.




322
The following resolution was presented by Regent Grant and
adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on the Law Department be, and
hereby are instructed to enquire into the practicability of removing
the floor of the present law library room, and the partitions underneath the same for the purpose of combining all of said rooms into
one for the use of the law library, and to ascertain the probable
expense of the same, and to report at the next meeting of the Board.
The President announced that the following letter had been
received:
WINTER PALACE ST. PETERSBURG, )
October 24th, 1873.  (
JAMES B. ANGELL, LL. D.-lVMy Dear Sir:-At the desire of the
Grand Duke Alexis, I have this day addressed to you through Messrs.
Trubner, of London, a parcel of books which His Imperial Highness
wishes you to be kind enough to place in the library of your University. A list of the books, with a translation, you will find enclosed.
We have all a most agreeable recollection of our tour in the United
States, and particularly of the day we had the pleasure of passing with
you in Detroit. Mr. Machin sends his compliments, and requests me
to thank you for the University Catalogue for 1871-2.
Believe me, my dear sir,
Yours most sincerely,
C. POSSIET.
The following is a list of the books sent:
1. History of the Russian Empire, Karamzine, 10 volumes.
2. History of Russia, Solovieff, 22 volumes.
3. Course of Civil Law, Pobedonossoff, 2 volumes.
4; Manual of Criminal Law, Spassovitch, 1 volume.
5. Historical Notes of the first fifty years of the University of St.
Petersburg, 1 volume.
6. Minutes of the Council of the University of St. Petersburgh,
6 volumes.
7. Extracts from the Reports of the Condition and of the Acts of
the University of Moscow, Kazan, Kharkoff, and Warsaw, for 1870 -71-72.
8. Notices published by the University of St, Vladimir, for 1871 -72-73, containing the yearly report for 1872, and other information
referring to University life.
9. Notes of the University of New Russia fron the time of its
foundation, containing among other matter the report of the University for last year, 10 volumes.




323
The following resolutions, introduced by Regent Walker, were
unanimously adopted.
Resolved, That the cordial thanks of the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan, be tendered to the Grand Duke Alexis, of
Russia, for the gift to the University of a valuable collection of books,
connected with the history of Russia, and especially with its educational interests and developments; a gift prized not only for its intrinsic value, but as illustrating anew the kindly spirit always existing
between two nations so widely separated.
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution properly engrossed and
signed by the President and Secretary, be forwarded to the Grand Duke
Alexis through His Excellency, C. Possiet.
The following preamble and resolution introduced by Regent
Rynd, was referred, on his motion, to a committee of three, consisting
of Regents Rynd, Gilbert, and Prof. Douglass:
WHEREAS, The demnand for a hospital in connection with the
Medical Department is very urgent, and the present financial condition of the University renders it impossible for the Board to expend
any money therefor; therefore
Resolved, That we respectfully solicit the citizens of Ann Arbor to
take such steps for the erection of a hospital building as they shall
deem advisable.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be requested to audit
the accounts of the counsel employed lately for the University, and
that the Secretary be directed to draw warrants covering the amount
of samie.
Ayes —Regents Walker, Willard, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant,
and Rynd.
On motion of Regent Gilbert; the Building Committee were
authorized to employ a suitable person to examine all accounts and
vouchers of money received and paid out for account of the new
building, and report at the next meeting of the Board.
The following resolution, presented by Regent Grant, was
adopted:
Resolved, That the Library Committee have until the next meeting
of the Board to report on the question of Librarianship of the General Library, as required by resolution of October 7th last.
Regent Estabrook introduced the following resolutions;




324
Resolved, That the Detroit Homeopathic College is hereby declared
a branch department of this University, the same to be known as "the
Homeopathic Medical Department of the University of Michigan,"
and that the conditions and requirements for graduation be the same as
in the Medical Department now existing.
Resolved, That................................ be  constituted  a
Board of Trustees for the local management of said department, subject to the control of the Board of Regents.
Resolved, That an appropriation of $1500 be made for the aid of
said department.
At the close of Regent Estabrook's remarks in favor of these
resolutions, they were opposed by Regent Willard, who offered the
following as a substitute for the resolution introduced by Regent Estabrook:
Resolved, That the recognition of the Detroit Homeopathic College
as a branch or department of the University of Michigan, is inexpedient, since such recognition, besides being of doubtful legality, is contrary to, and subversive of the uniform policy which has governed the
Board in keeping the University a unit by avoiding the establishment
of branches and by the location of all its departments at one place.
After a discussion of the question by Regents Willard, Estabrook,
and others, the resolutions and the substitute, on motion of Regent
Grant, were laid on the table.
The following appropriations were made on recommendation of
the Finance Committee:
For Contingent Expenses................................ $1000  00
For Repairs  and  Alterations...............................  500  00
For Hospital............................................ 00 00
For  Insurance...........................................  200  00
For Regents' Expenses...................................  109  10
Ayes —Regents Walke., Willard, Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan,
Grant, and Rynd.
The Board, on motion, went into executive session, at the close of
which, the rule requiring all applications for degrees to be referred to
their appropriate committees, was, on motion of Regent Estabrook,
suspended; whereupon Regent Walker moved that the degree of
Master of Arts be conferred on Mr. Alfred Hennequin, B. A.,
instructor in French in the University. The motion prevailed, and the,degree was granted.
On motion the Board adjourned.
H. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Monday, March 23d, 1874..
The Board of Regents assembled, in regular session, in the
room of the President, at 7' o'clock p. M.
Present-The President; Regents Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook,
McGowan, Grant, Rynd, Walker, and Climie.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
The oath of office was administered to the newly elected
members, Messrs. E. C. Walker and Andrew Climie, who thereupon took their seats.
Regent Grant, chairman of the Committee on the Law Department, reported that in pursuance of a resolution adopted at
the last meeting of the Board, the Committee had examined into
the practicability of removing the floors in the Law Building,
under the law library room; also the partitions under the same;
and found their removal to be impracticable. He further stated
that the building was so constructed that it would be impossible
to enlarge or improve the accommodations of the law library in
the present building, and that nothing could be done until a new
building was erected.
The report was accepted.
Regent Rynd presented and read the following preamble
and resolutions:
WHEREAS, The Medical Faculty of the University of Michigan
has expressed an earnest desire "that a rule might prevail in our
country like that which prevails in most of the Universities of Europe,




326


by which a liberal education should be made the necessary introduction to professional study;"' and
WHEREAS, We have reason to believe that no preliminary examination is instituted, and that no special qualifications are actually demanded of those who enter the medical colleges of this country; and
WHEREAS, We have reason to believe that many ignorant /lnd
unworthy persons are permitted to engage in the study of medicine in
the various medical colleges of this country, to the disgrace of the
medical profession and the injury of the public; therefore,
Resolved, That we deem it our duty to take such measures as will
tend to elevate the standard of professional acquirements, and protect
the public fiom the charlatanism which is usually the outgrowth of
ignorance and immorality.
Resolved, That in future all students entering the Medical Department shall, in addition to furnishing satisfactory evidence of good
moral character, be subjected, prior to matriculation, to a careful examination, and that a "good English education, a knowledge of Natural Philosophy, Physical Geography, the elementary Mathematical
Sciences, and such acquaintance with the Latin language as will enable the student to appreciate the technical language of medical literature, and read and write prescriptions with accuracy," shall be required.
Resolved, That the President of the University and the Medical
Faculty shall constitute the Board of Examiners.
Resolved, further, That if, in the judgment of said Board of Examiners, any applicant be deficient in such mental qualifications as
are necessary to a proper appreciation of the work of the profession,
such applicant shall not be admitted to matriculation.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the preambles and resolutions
were made a special order for Tuesday at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Grant presented the following resolution, which was
laid on the table for future consideration, by his request:
Resolved, That the annual dues of students be increased from ten
to fifteen dollars per annum to be paid as follows, viz.. ten dollars at
the commencement of the college year, and five dollars at the beginning of the second semester of the Literary Department, and at the
middle of the term of the Medical and Law Departments.
Dr. S. H. Douglas being present, by permission made a
statement in reference to the condition and wants of the Chemical Laboratory, and asked that an appropriation sufficient in




327


amount be made at this meeting for the enlargement of the building, as the present facilities were inadequate to accommodate the
applicants for admission.
On motion of Regent Burt, the matter was referred to the
Finance Committee.
The following communication was presented by Regent
Rynd:
To the Hon. Board of Regents:
The following are the names of students whose examinations
have proved satisfactory, and in the absence of Dr. Sager, I am instructed by the Medical Faculty to present them to you as candidates
for the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
Respectfully,
MISS C. A. SAGER,
For DR. A. SAGER, Dean.
James Morris Barrett................ Oego, N. Y.
Judson Beach,........................JEtna, N. Y.
E. Cushman Beebe,..............    Swanton, Vt.
Frank A. Benham, Jr.,.............Brunson.
Frank E. Bodemann,................Burlington, la.
William Nt. Bonnet,...................Darlinton, Pa.
H. H. Bordner.......................alley View, Pa.
David Kreps Broucher................ Constantine.
John William Chambers,....a........Kaneville, Ill.
Charles Edward Davis,................ Detroit.
Orlando A. Dimmick,........... Chardon, Ohio.
John Henry Flagg, C. E.,.............Pentwater.
Harrison Ford,..............   Big Rapids.
John W. Greenfield,.............Ann Arbor.
Austin Kent Hale,........... Adams,.. Y.
Josiah Heller,.............. White House, Ohio.
Samuel G. Higgins,................. Ottawa, Ont.
Frank Clair Hill.....................Waupun, Wis.
Charles Robinson Humle,............Medina.
Charles B. Humiston,................Morenci.
William Hutton,......................Elizabeth, Ill.
George W. Kerr,......................Lovington, ll.
George W. Lowry,................Zanesville, Ohio.
Archibald M. Maclean,....K...........Kingston, Ont.
Seymour A. Manzer,..................Lapeer.




328


William L. Marr,.................. La Porte, Ind.
George Martin,.......................Lambertville.
William A. McCaslin,..........        M Ville, Pa.
Thomas 0. Miller,................. Springfield, Ill.
Frank P. Moore,.................. New Lisbon, Ohio.
Martland F. Newkirk,...............  Bay City.
William T. Northup,................ Gallipolis, Ohio.
Addis Emllet Parker,...............Owosso.
Herbert C. Phelps.................... Rouse's Point, N. Y.
John F. Place, Jr.,..................M. Upton, N. Y.
John Powell, P. C.................... Logansport, Ind.
Lorenzo S. Putney,................ Lisbon, N. Y.
Emmet C. Rhodes,....................Stockbridge.
T. Webster Richmond,................Norwalk.
Thomas Riley.......................Chicopee Falls, Mass.
Frank Taylor Seeley, B.S.,...........Fint.
Alfred Senier, Jr.....................Mazomanie, Wis.
Charles Weed Shepard,..............Ann Arbor.
W. P. Shoemaker,................... Cochlinsville, Pa.
Samuel H. Sidlinger,..................Napoleon, Ohio.
Walter W. Smith,....................Milan, Ohio.
T. Augustus Sparhawk,............Leroy.
William C. Stevens,...................Ann Arbor.
Asher C. Taylor,..................... Ann Arbor.
Jasper Tidball,....................... Viola, Ill.
Leander Tidball................... Viola, III.
Flavel B. Tiffany,.....................Minneapolis, Wis.
John S. Walbridge,................ Berlin, Wis.
Clarence S. Ward,................. Warren, Ohio.
George Welsh...................... Clinton, Ont.
William W. White,.................. White's Cove, N. B.
John Young,.........................Glover, Vt.
Olive Jane Emerson,.................Rochester, Vt.
Nancy Maria Hill,....................Belmont, Maine.
Gertrude Jones,..................  Chillicothe, Ohio.
Mary Kenyon................   Venice, N. Y.
Harriet M. Kollock,................... Belleville, Wis.
Tinnie S. Lawrence,.................Emporia, Kan.
Mary V. Lee,.................. North Granby, Conn.
Rachel A. Underwood,................ Toledo, Ohio.
TOTAL-65.




329


On motion of Regent Rynd, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was awarded, and ordered to be conferred upon the candidates named in the communication from the Dean of the Medical
Faculty.
The following communication from the Dean of the Law
Faculty was read by Regent Grant:
To the Regents of the University of Michigan:
The Faculty of Law respectfully report:
That the several persons whose names and residences are below
have pursued the study of the law in the Law Department of this Institution for the requisite period to entitle them to be candidates for
the degree of Bachelor of Laws, and after due examination into their
attainments we respectfully recommend that that degree be conferred
upon them.
Dated Ann Arbor, March 23, 1874.
On behalf of the Faculty.
T. M. COOLEY.
Charles Asaph Allen.................Rossville, Ill.
Willis Blair Allen....................Hillsdale.
James Wallace Allison............... Erie, Pa.
Walter Mark Appleby...............Portland, Me.
Lyman James Baskin................Starkey, N. Y.
John Luther Bevan....................Atlanta, Ill.
John William Blee.................. Meriden, I11.
Charles Henry Brady................Battle Creek.
Thomas Maxwell Brady............ Battle Creek.
Samuel L. Brigham.................. Goodrich.
Almon Clarence Brown..............Flushing.
Frank Buchanan.................... Huntington, Ind.
Clarence Monroe Burton..............Ann Arbor.
George Albert Byrd................. Ladoga, Ind.
Charles Granger Canfield.............. Cleveland, O.
Randall Cassem.......................Newark, 111.
William Henry Castel................Bushnell Centre.
Franklin Baldwin Clark..............Hartland.
Stephen L. Clark.....................Williamfield, O.
Frank Edward Cleveland............Ann Arbor.
Lowell Colburn.................... Oshkosh, Wis.
Richard Tidings Colston...............Louisville, Ky.
Peter Napoleon Cook................. Corunna.




330


George E. Coryell.................... Montgomery, Ill.
Clarence Curtain.....................London, O.
Samuel Everett Custer...............Monroe.
James B. Denworth..................Williamsport, Pa.
Howard Douglass.....................High Forest, Minn.
James Story Drake.................... La Grange, Ind.
Solomon Draper...................... Upper Alton, III.
James Trask Eaman.................Ann Arbor.
M. Branson Earnhart............... Troy, 0.
Burdett Othniel Eddy................ Farwell.
Henry E. Eldridge....................Gainesville, Texas.
Thomas Emmet Ellison...............La Grange, Ind.
Daniel B. English...................Bordentown. N. J.
Alonzo Asher Exine..................Kankakee City, 111.
Adelbert Connelly Fanning........... Leona, Pa.
Thomas Shoales Ferguson........... Chicago, Ill.
Irving Raphael Fisher...............Lewiston, Ill.
John Franklin Flower............    Chicago, Ill.
Chase Fowler......................Newark, Ill.
Griffith Henry Francis................ Cazenovia, N. Y.
John M. Fraze........................Mount Eaton, 0.
John Thacker Gardner.........Rutledge, N. Y.
Charles Burton Gates................. orcester, Mass.
Robert Clark Glasco.................. Tuscola, II.
Edward Septimus Grece.............. London, Ont.
Charles William Griffin.............Demning, Ind.
John Wesley Group................... Rauch's Gap, Pa.
Edward D. Haines....................Avilla, Ind.
James Henry Hall....................Morenci.
Nils Pederson Hangen.........Martello, Wis.
Joseph Harrold Harper.............    Ann Arbor.
Henry Hiestand..................... Mt. Morris, 17.
Frank C. Hildreth................... Wheeling, West Va.
Robert Strong Hill.................. Grand Haven.
Robert D. W. Holder................ Carlisle, 111.
Thomas H. Hoyt.................... West Amesbury, Mass.
Dell C. Huntoon....................   Marine City.
Charles Ezra Lovett.................Erie, Pa.
Wilfred N. Low......................Shabbona Grove, 111.
John Edwin Lydecker............... Streator, Ill.
Thomas C. Magie, Jr................. Dover, N. J.
Joseph William Martin..............hicago, Ill.
Robert Wilson Maxwell.............Illiopolis, Ill.




331
John McBride.................... Elgin, Ill.
P. Hamilton McBride.................Dundee.
Albert Elliott McDonald.............. Charleston, II.
Edward L. McDonald..............Jacksonville, 111.
Thornas Byron McGee..............   Leavenworth, Kan.
Thomas Francis McKenna............Ann Arbor.
Francis De Witt Merritt...............La Grange, Ind.
Willis Merritt.......................Tecumseh.
Joseph Dickey Miller.................Franklin, 0.
Louis Edward Morris............New York City.
John G. Mdrrison.................      Jacksonville, Ill.
Charles Willard Murphy.....  X.......Xenia, 0.
C. De Kalb Myers....................Fairmount, West Va.
Herbert Mitchell Norris...............Holly.
Philip O'Farrell................     Alpena.
Alfred Paffenbarger................... McArthur, 0.
Frank Martin Pfister................San Jose, Cal.
Samuel Morse Porter.................. Walled Lake.
Simeon Taylor Price..................Lexington, Mo.
Stephen Priest.......................Londonville, O.
James London Pugh.................Somerset, Pa.
Eugene Randall......................Newark, Ill.
Seth Cook Randall....................Dundee.
Dwight Carver Rexford............... Ypsilanti.
John D. Rice.........................Hornellsville, N. Y.
Dana Belknap Richardson............. Worth.
Charles F. Richey................... West Millville, Pa.
Richard M. Robinson................ Springfield, 11.
Dennis Lucretius Rogers.............. Grand Rapids.
Ephraim Edward Russell..............Burton, 0.
Henry Custis Selleck................. Utica.
Benjamin F. Shankland...............Hfopeston, ll.
George W. Sharp......................Millersburg, 0.
George Shirts.N..................... oblesville, Ind.
Burnett Milton Short.................Indianapolis, Ind.
Jane Mariah Slocum...................Evans Mills, N. Y.
David Warren Stair................... Omaha, Neb.
Mary Stockbridge....................Fort Wayne, Ind.
George Styles.................... Boston, Ind.
Edwin Forest Sweet..................Jackson.
Thomas A. Taylor............... Connersville, Ind.
Albert 0. Terry.................. Ann Arbor.
Ransom James Thacker.............. Oxford, Miss.




332


George Francis Tincher...............Danville, 1il.
George P. Voorhies................... White Lake.
Cyrus Packard Walbridge............ Stanton, Minn.
James W. Warrick.................... eedersburg, Ind.
Albert Wassell...L............Little Rock, Ark.
Isaac Nathaniel Wattles..............Kalamazoo.
John H. G. Weaver.................. Quincy.
Wallace R. White..................... Winthrop, Me.
Burton C. Whitford.................habbona Grove, Ill.
Oscar Sidney Wiley.................Mason.
James H. Wilkinson, Jr...............Prescott. Wis.
Norris B. Wilkinson................Prescott, Wis.
Edward Winslow Williams.......  Otwasso.
Manford E. Williams..............Kalamazoo.
Henry M. Wiltse..................... Chattanooga, Tenn.
Elisha B. Wood......................Ridgeville, Ind.
LeGrand Young.................... Salt Lake City, Utah.
TOTAL-1 26.
On motion of Regent Grant, the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was awarded, and ordered to be conferred upon the persons named in the communication of the Dean of the Law Faculty.
The Board, on motion, went into executive session, and
afterwards resumed the regular business of the meeting in open
session.
A communication from Prof. H. S. Cheever, dated Boulder,
Col. Ter., March 14, I874, was read by the President. Prof.
Cheever in his letter intimated that an extension of the time
of relief from actual duty in the University, on account of
the continued precarious state of his health, would be greatly
beneficial to him, and was also desired by him. Thereupon Regent Rynd presented the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That leave of absence be granted to Prof. H. S. Cheever
for another year.
Resolved, That F. H. Gerrish, A.M., M.D., be and is hereby appointed Professor of Therapeutics, Materia Medica and Physiology.
(Ayes-Regents Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant,
Rynd, Walker, and Climie.)




333


The President presented and read the following communication from Prof. A. Sager.
To the President and Hon. Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,-In responding to a resolution passed October 7th,
1873, requesting me to report to the Board, at the March meeting, in
regard to my probable future relationship to the University, I beg to
say that although my health has considerably improved, yet so much
doubt rests upon the near filture that, to avoid embarrassment, I respectfully tender to you my resignation of the Professorship of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children in the Medical Department of the University.
In thus severing a connection with the Institution which in various
capacities I have had the honor to serve for more than thirty years,
permit me to assure you that the future of the University will ever
remain for me a subject of hope and solicitude, as in the past its support has commanded my earnest efforts.
I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully,
A. SAGER.
Regent Walker presented the following resolution which was
unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the resignation of Dr. A. Sager, Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, be accepted, and he be
continued as Emeritus Professor of the Medical Department of the
University.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Rynd:
Resolved, That Edward S. Dunster, A. M., M. D., be and hereby is
appointed Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and
Children.
Adopted by the following vote:
Ages-Regents Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd,
Walker and Climie.
On motion of Regent McGowan, Regent Rynd was requested to prepare and present to the Board resolutions expressive of
the feelings of the Board in respect to the resignation of Prof.
A. Sager.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That hereafter there shall be no separate lectures given




334


to women in the Medical Department, and that the extra compensation
paid professors therefor shall be discontinued.
The resolution of Regent McGowan, on motion, was laid
on the table for the present.
Regent Walker, from the Library Committee, made a report
relative to the Librarian, which was adopted and ordered to be
placed on file.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 9 o'clock A. M., Tuesday March 24th, I874.
LTNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
March 24, 1874. S
The Board re-assembled in the room of the President at 9
o'clock A. M., and after spending some time signing diplomas,
the Board was called to order by the President.
Present-a full Board.
Regent Rynd presented the following preamble and resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:
WHEREAS, God in His Providence has subjected Prof. Abram
Sager, A. M., M. D., to severe affliction which has incapacitated him
for duty during the last.year, and which has caused his resignation
from the active duties of his professorship, therefore
Resolved, That we hold Prof. Sager in the highest esteem, not only
for the symmetry of his character and purity of his life, but also for the
eminent services which he has rendered to this University during a
period of thirty-two years.
Resolved, That the great success attending the Medical Department
has been largely due to his loyalty, industry, wisdom and scholarship.
Resolved, That our deepest sympathy is extended to Prof. Sager in
his continued physical feebleness, and that we sincerely hope for his
restoration to health, and for his future happiness and usefulness.
Resolved, That we shall regard with favor his future relationship
to the Medical Department in such way as his health may permit, and
trust that we may for many years be favored with his prudent counsels
and personal influence.
Resolved, That a copy of this preamble, and these resolutions,
signed by the President and Secretary be forwarded to Prof. Abram
Sager.




335


On motion of Regent Rynd the President was requested to
communicate the action of the Board to Prof. H. S. Cheever, in
regard to extending his leave of absence from professional duty.
On motion of Regent Rynd, a duplicate diploma was granted
to Dr. Ely Woodman, graduate of the Medical Department; and
on motion of Regent Grant, duplicate diplomas were also granted to Mr. R. G. Sloper and Judge Robert B. Archibald, graduates of the Law Department, (in consequence of their having lost
the originals,) upon payment of the usual fee.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution, as a
substitute for the resolution offered by Regent Grant last evening:
Resolved, That "section two" of "chapter six" of the General
By-Laws be amended to read as followsEvery student before entering any department of the University
shall pay to the Steward the sum of ten dollars if a resident of Michigan, and the sum of twenty-five dollars if from any other State or
country as a matriculation fee. Each student shall also pay to the
Steward, annually, fifteen dollars if a resident of Michigan, and twenty
dollars if a resident of any other State or country, to be devoted to the
payment of incidental expenses. Resident graduates are required to
pay the same annual dues as undergraduates, and no student or graduate shall be allowed to enjoy the privileges of the University except
on presentation to the President of the Steward's receipt of all fees
and dues specified in this or any other rule or regulation of the Board
of Regents.
Regent Rynd offered the following amendment to the substitute presented by Regent McGowanStrike out the words, "if a resident of Michigan, and twenty dollars if a resident of any other State or country."
After careful deliberation and a full discussion of the subject,
a vote on the amendment offered by Regent Rynd was taken with
the following result:
Ayes-Regents Gilbert, Estabrook, Grant and Rynd.
Nays-Regents Burt, McGowan, Walker and Climie.
The result of the vote having been announced by the President, Regent Gilbert said that on further consideration of the
subject he should vote for the substitute to the original resolution




336


as offered by Regent McGowan. The ayes and nays being called
for, the following was the result of the vote on Regent McGowan's substituteAyes-Regents Gilbert, Burt, McGowan, Walker and Climie.-5.
Nays-Regents Estabrook, Grant and Rynd.-3.
The question recurring upon the original resolution offered
by Regent Grant, it was lost, and the substitute of Regent McGowan was adopted.
On motion the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock p. M.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,       }
Tuesday, March 24, 1874. 
The Board re-assembled in the President's room at 2 P. M.
Present-a full Board.
The resolutions presented by Regent Rynd last evening in
reference to increased requirements of candidates entering the
Medical Department of the University, and placed on the special
order for 2 o'clock P. M. were taken up, and after a lengthy discussion of the subject, Regent McGowan offered the following
substitute for Regent Rynd's resolution, and it was adopted:
Resolved, That the President be respectfully requested to confer
with the Medical Faculty, and with them to enforce Rule 12 of Chapter
11 of the By-laws fixing terms of admission of applicants to the Medical Department, and in their discretion to modify said rule as they shall
deem to be for the best interests of that Department.
Regent Gilbert, chairman of the Building Committee, presented the following report which was adopted:
Acting under authority of the Board, the Finance Committee employed Mr. Knight, the Cashier of the First National Bank of this city
to examine and report upon the vouchers in the hands of the Secretary
of the Board for expenditures in the erection of the University Hall.
The report herewith presented shows an expenditure of  $103,860.82
Paid for interest on money borrowed in anticipation of the appropriation.................     3,662.51
$107,523.33
Furnished  by State............................$100,000.00
Furnished by University......................  7,523.33
-$107,523.33




337


The contractor for the carpenter work presents a further claim for
about $1,000, which the Architect resists, and there is a small amount
due the Architect. A list of the warrants drawn in payment, showing
the purpose for which they were drawn and to whom given, together
with the certificate of Mr. Knight as to its accuracy, is herewith presented.
THOS. D. GILBERT, Chairman.
Regent Gilbert, chairman of the Finance Committee, submitted the following report which was accepted and adopted:
In the matter of an addition to the Chemical Laboratory asked for
by the Professors of that Department, and referred to the Finance
Committee, I am instructed to report in favor of the addition asked for,
provided it can be built with the means the Board is able to furnish.
The building occupied by the Law Department and Library, was built
mostly with means provided by the issue of interest bearing warrants
drawn upon the Treasurer in anticipation of future income.  In view
of the great pressure for increased accommodation in the Chemical
Laboratory, and the certainty of increased income after the year 1875
the Finance Committee report in favor of the issue of $1,000 of warrants payable within three years from July 1st, 1874; $2,000 of such
warrants payable within four years from July 1st, 1874; $2,000 payable within five years from July 1st, 1874, and $2,000 payable within
six years from July 1st, 1874, all drawing interest at 7 per cent per
annum payable annually, to be used under the direction of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, Prof. Douglas and the Secretary of
the Board in the erection of the proposed building; provided, that
said warrants shall not be sold at a less price than par.
THOS. D. GILBERT, Chairman.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Treasurer was authorized
to borrow $1o,ooo on University time warrants payable July ist,
1874, said money to be paid for salaries due April ist, 1874.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That from and after the 1st day of July, 1874, the salary
of the Professor of Physics be fifteen hundred dollars.
Ayes-Regents Gilbert, Burt, McGowan, Grant, Rynd, Walker
and Climie.
Nay-Regent Estabrook.
The following resolution, presented by Regent Grant, was
adopted:




338


Resolved, That the salary of the Librarian be fixed at fifteen hundred dollars per annum fiom and after the 1st day of July, 1874.
Ayes-Regents Gilbert, Burt, Grant, Rynd and Clirnie.
Nays-Regents Estabrook and McGowan. Not voting-Regent
Walker.
Regent Estabrook presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That certain duplicate books in the University Library
be either donated or loaned to the State Normal School.
Referred to the Committee on General Library on motion of
Regent McGowan.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Rynd:
Resolved, That the sum of $150 be appropriated for the purchase of
instruments and apparatus for the Professors in Theory and Practice
and Materia Medica, the money not to be drawn previous to July 1st,
1874.
Adopted by the following voteAyes-Regents Gilbert, Burt, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd,
Walker and Climie.
On motion of Regent McGowan the following recast of
committees was made:
Finance Committee-Regents Gilbert, Grant and Climie.
Executive Committee-The President, Regents Walker, McGowan
and Burt.
Committee on Literary Department-Regents Burt, Estabrook and
Walker.
Committee on Lawo Department-Regents Grant, McGowan and
Rynd.
Committee on Medical, Chemical and Pharmaceutical DepartmentsRegents Rynd, Gilbert and Climie.
Library Committee-The President, Regents E stabrook, Walker and
Burt.
Committee on Museum and Astronomical Observatory-Regents McGowan, Grant and Estabrook.
Committee on Buildings and Grounds-Regents Climie, Gilbert and
Rynd.
The resolution in reference to a " separate course of lectures
to women and compensation therefor, in the Medical Depart



339
ment," on motion of Regent McGowan was taken from the table,
and after a brief discussion it was referred to the Committee on
the Medical Department and the President, with a request that a
report upon the subject be submitted at the next meeting of the
Board-which was agreed to.
Regent Rynd presented the following resolution which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the Senate of the University be requested to present
their views to this Board at the June meeting on the subject of conferring all degrees other than that of LL. D., on examination only.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Grant and
adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on the Literary Department be instructed to inquire into the question as to whether any retrenchment
is practicable in said department, and what duties are performed by
each professor, assistant professor, instructor, and the time spent by
each, and to report at the next meeting of the Board.
The following appropriations were made on recommendation
of the Finance Committee.
For Contingent Expenses................................ $1000  00
For Fire  and  Lights.......................................  200  00
For  Grounds.........................................  200  00
For  Postage.............................................  200  00
For Hospital..............................................  100  00
For Regents' Expenses...................................  58  90
On motion, the Board adjourned.
HI. D. BENNETT, SECRETARY.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,    t
Ann Arbor, June 22d, 1874. 
The Board of Regents assembled, in the room of the President, at 72 o'clock P. M.
Present-The President; Regents Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd, and Walker.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
The minutes of the last meeting of the Board were approved
as printed.
Regent Rynd presented a communication from Dr. Gerrish,
of the Medical Department, calling the attention of the Board
to the inadequate supply of apparatus necessary to teach physiology successfully in that department.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the communication was referred to the joint consideration of the Committee on Finance
and the Committee on the Medical Department.
Regent Grant stated the wants of the Law Department, particularly in regard to the necessity of increasing the law library.
He said a large addition to the library was imperatively demanded; that the annual appropriations of three and four hundred dollars were insufficient; and that a sum, not less than two
thousand dollars, ought to be appropriated at this meeting for the
immediate purchase of books subject to almost daily call of the
students of that department. He moved the reference of the
subject to the joint consideration of the Committee on Finance
and the Committee on the Law Department, which was agreed to.




342
The following communication was presented by Regent
Rynd:
ANN ARBOR, June 22, 1874.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,- We beg leave to report that the students named in
the following list have completed all requirements for graduation in
Pharmacy, and we therefore respectfully recommend them for the
degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist:
Robert McGowan Cotton,        George Chambers Henry,
Kate Crane,                   Charles Herbert Hudson,
Lorenzo Miller Davis,         Henry Nathaniel Huntington,
Samuel Townsend Douglas,      Albert Huntsman,
Charles Granville Duncan,     Eli Kuhlman,
John Foster Eastwood,         Finley Bigger Pugh,
Henry Ehrhardt,               William Schrage,
Frank Fred Fritts,            Alfred Senier, Jr.,
George Harvey,                Oscar Elijah Shepard.
Also, the following named students have fulfilled all requirements
and are presented for the same degree; but they are not able to be
present at the approaching Commencement. We respectfully recommend that they be permitted to obtain the degree at the same date
with the other members of their class:
Gertrude Jones,               Jonathan Weaver.
Respectfully submitted,
SILAS H. DOUGLAS, Prof. Chemistry.
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT, Prof. Pharmacy.
MARK W. HARR1NGTON, Ass't Prof. Botany.
FREDERICK H. GERRISH, Prof. Mat. Med.
On motion of Regent Rynd, the degree of Pharmaceutical
Chemist was awarded to the candidates who were to be present
at Commencement. Action upon the case of those who were absent was deferred.
Regent Grant presented the following communication:
DETROIT, June 22, 1875.
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michi.gan:
GENTLEMEN,-After fifteen years of service in the Law Department. I respectfully ask leave of absence for the coming year. I have
some special work in view that I cannot well accomplish without such
absence.




343


I should not have asked this without being fully satisfied that the
Department will in no way suffer thereby.
At my earnest solicitation, Hon. Wm. P. Wells, of this city, has
consented, with your approval, to fill the Professorship during my
absence.
I am satisfied that he will do so with credit to himself and benefit
to the Department and the students.
Very respectfully,
Yours, etc.,
C. I. WALKER.
On motion of Regent Grant, the communication was accepted, and leave of absence was granted Professor Walker for
one year. Action on the appointment of a person to fill the vacancy, at the suggestion of Regent Gilbert, was deferred for the
present.
On motion of Regent Gilbert, the Board adjourned to 8
o'clock Tuesday morning.
iTNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Tuesday morning, 8 o'clock. 
The Board of Regents re-assembled in the room of the
President.
Present-the President; Regents Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd, and Walker.
The first hour of the session was spent in signing diplomas,
after which Regent Rynd presented the following communication from the Dean of the Medical Faculty:
UNIVERSITY, OF MICHIGAN, 
Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
Ann Arbor, June 22d, 1874. 
To the President and Hon. Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan:
GENTLEMEN,-The students of Medicine whose names are herein
submitted have complied with the requirements, and passed an exam



344


ination satisfactory to the Faculty. They are therefore respectfully
recommended for the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
By order of the Faculty.
A. SAGER, Dean.
CANDIDATES.
John Drake Chambers,         Rufus H. McCarty,
Dontague Desnoyer,           Marion Louise Rice,
Fairfield Goodwin,           Lafayette Rinkle.
It was voted to confer the degree as recommended.
Regent Rynd presented the following report:
The Committee on Medical Department, to whom was referred
the following resolution:-" That hereafter there shall be no separate
lectures given to women in the Medical Department, and that the extra compensation paid professors therefor shall be discontinued;"beg leave to report that the medical gentlemen occupying chairs in
that department of the University assure us of the impracticability of
conducting certain lectures and experiments in the presence of mixad
classes, and consider that any further attempt in this direction would
seriously damage the Department.
So far as the question of salary is concerned, we deem it equally
impracticable to recommend any reduction from the rates which have
obtained for the last four years.
In this connection, your Committee desire that the co-education of
the sexes in the Medical Department shall be conducted, so far as
practicable, and recommend that for the present the matter be referred
to the judgment and discretion of the Medical Professors.
C. RYND.
THOS. D. GILBERT.
The report was accepted, and after a brief discussion by
Regents Walker, Grant, and McGowan, it was adopted.
Dr. Douglas, of the Chemical and Pharmaceutical Departments, being present, was requested by the Board to state the
reasons why the two candidates for the degree of Pharmaceutical
Chemist, now absent, could not be present. After having explained the reason of the absence of the candidates satisfactorily
to the Board, on motion of Regent Rynd the degree was awarded, and ordered to be conferred, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty.




345
The President presented the names of the following candidates, who had been recommended by the Faculty of the Literary Department for the Master's degree:
MASTER OF SCIENCE, (in course.)
William S. Frackleton,         Samuel Sharpless Green.
MASTER OF ARTS, (in course.)
William Mahlon Brown,         Perry Anthony Randall,
Charles Chandler,              Benjamin G. Rice,
Pelubrook R. Flitcraft,        William F. McK. Ritter,
Alexander W. Hamilton,         Gideon Webster Seavey,
Edward L. Hessenmueller,       John W. Sleeper,
Preston C. Hudson,             Rufus T. Thayer,
Earl J. Knight,                Charles Joseph Willett,
George L. Maris,               Floyd B. Wilson,
Horace Phillips,               Robert M. Wright.
MASTER OF ARTS, (on examination.)
Inez Blanche Slocum,           William E. F. Milburn.
On motion of Regent Estabrook, the degree was awarded,
in accordance with the recommendation of the Literary Faculty.
The report of the Demonstrator of Anatomy was received
and read by Regent Rynd.    On motion, the report was ordered
to be placed on file.
Regent Estabrook presented the following report on the
subject of degrees, which was unanimously adopted:
At a meeting of the Faculty, held June 15th, it was resolved that
the Regents be requested to take such action as will authorize us to
modify the statements printed on pp. 15-16 of the Calendar for 1874 so
that they may read as follows:
"The degrees of Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy, and Master of Science will until 1877 be conferred respectively on Bachelors of
Arts, Bachelors of Philosophy, and Bachelors of Science of three
years' standing, who are graduates of this University. But after 1877
these degrees will not be conferred ' in course.'
The degrees of Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy, and Master
of Science are conferred respectively upon Bachelors of Arts, Bachelors of Philosophy, and Bachelors of Science, upon examination, according to the following conditions:




346


1. The candidate must be a graduate either of this or of some
other collegiate institution empowered to confer degrees.
2. He must pursue at least for a year two of the courses of postgraduate studies, designated in the programme on the following pages.
3. He must sustain an examination before the Faculty in at least
three of the studies so attended-the studies to be elected by the candidate.
4. He must present a thesis to the Faculty on one of the subjects
chosen for examination.
The second degree may thus be obtained, on examination, one
year after the first degree.
The higher courses will not be restricted to graduates and candidates for the second degrees, but will be open to all who shall give satisfactory evidence of ability to profit by them."
II. These degrees may be conferred respectively on Bachelors of
Arts, Bachelors of Philosophy, and Bachelors of Science, graduates of
this University, who have not resided here since graduation, but who
at a date not earlier than two years after graduation shall, on examination, show special proficiency in literary or scientific studies, and
shall present a satisfactory thesis to the Faculty.
III. The degree of Doctor of Philosophy is open to the graduates
of this University, or of any other reputable university or college, who
shall have satisfied the Faculty on examination that they have made
special proficiency in some one branch of study and good attainments
in two other branches to be specified by the Faculty. They will be
expected to reside here, and to perform an amount of work which will
occupy at least two years.
Persons, who are not graduates, will be received as candidates for
this degree, if they satisfy the Faculty that they have made attainments equivalent to those required here for the degree of B.A., or Ph.
B., or B.S.
The following communication from the Secretary of the
Senate was received, and, on motion, it was ordered to be printed
in the minutes:
To the Hon. the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,-At a meeting of the University Senate, held June
8, 1874, a request from the Board of Regents that the Senate consider
the propriety of conferring no honorary degrees save that of Doctor
of Laws, being the order, on motion of Prof. Frieze, the following
was unanimously adopted:




347


Resolved, That we respectfully communicate to the members of the
Board of Regents our opinion, that it is not desirable that they restrict
their power of conferring honorary degrees.
H. B. HUTCHINS,
Secretary of Senate.
A communication was received from Prof. Geo. B. Merriman, asking for an appropriation to be used for the purchase of
apparatus in the department of physics. On motion of Regent
Gilbert, it was laid on the table.
Regent Gilbert, chairman of the Finance Committee, submitted the following report:
To enable the Board to act intelligently on the propositions for
extraordinary appropriations for several departments of the University, the Finance Committee offer herewith an approximate estimate
of the receipts and expenses of the current year, and the year ending
June 30, 1875.
For the current year the receipts from all sources will be nearly
as follows:
University Interest Fund.............. $37,500 00
State Aid...................... 31,000 00
Students' Fees........................ 19,500 00 88,000 00
Balance on hand June 30, 1873, about..          2,000 00
$90,000 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
For Salaries of all persons connected
with the University.............. $78,960 00
Contingent Expenses.................. 18,000 00
Paid by University on account of new
building.........................  7,500 00  104,460 00
Deficit..................... $14,460 00
Which has been provided for by
sale of a part of the Reserve Fund and
a loan of the Am. Nat. Bank.
The receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30, 1875,
disconnected from the current year, will probably very nearly balance,
leaving the deficit to be carried as a debt until we reach the increased
aid that will come to the University under the new apportionment in
1875.




348


That apportionment will probably give us an annual addition to
our income of about $15,000, and the main question for the Board to
consider, is, to what extent this extra income shall be pledged or spent
before it is received. The wants of the University in the direction
now under consideration are very pressing, and the Finance Committee are willing to go even beyond the bounds of prudence to rmeet
them.
The Committee recommend that a sum not exceeding $5,000 be
raised, by the issue of treasury warrants bearing not more than 8 per
cent. interest, payable at the option of the Board after 1876, and due
June 30, 1880, to be expended in the enlargement of the Law Library
and the purchase of apparatus for other departments.
THOS. D. GILBERT, Chairman.
The report was accepted and adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regent Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd, and
Walker.
On motion, the Board went into executive session, at the
close of which the business of the open session was resumed.
The following resolution was presented by Regent Grant:
Resolved, That Mr. Wooster W. Bernan be and hereby is appointed
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, at the usual salary; the year to
commence October 1st, 1874.
Ayes-Regents Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd, and
Walker.
Regent McGowan presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the papers received from the Professors and Assistant Professors in the Literary Department, stating the time each
was employed in teaching therein, be referred to the Committee on
the Literary Department, with instructions to prepare a tabulated
statement of the same, and present it at the next meeting of the
Board.
The resolution was adopted.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock P. M.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, R
June 23d, 1874.  '
The Board of Regents re-assembled in the room of the
President, at 2 o'clock P. M.




349


Present-thle President; Regents Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant, Rynd, and Walker.
The following communication was received fiom the Secretary of the Faculty of the Literary Department:
To the Hon. the Board of Regents of the University:
GENTLEMEN,-The following persons have, by a vote of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts, been recommended for the degree indicated.
CIVIL ENGINEER.


Horace Barnard,
Clarence Orrin Bean,
Charles Leander Doolittle,
James Marcus Everett,
Horace Holmes,
Julian Switzer Hull,
Henry B. Jackson,


Victor Hugo Lane,
Charles Marshall Lungren,
James Llewellyn Rumsey,
Levi Lockwood Wheeler,
Levi Douglass Wines,
Robert Edward Williams, B.A.
Orrin Smith Wilson.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
I)elos Buzzell,               Charles Henry May,
Frank Austin Carle,           Henry Romaine Pattengill,
John Edward Ensign,           James Farwell Potter,
Charles Coe Hibbard,          John Sullivan Richardson,
Edward Charles Hinmtan,       Seymour McGlune Sadler,
Lawrence Maxwell. Jr.,        Wilbert Wesley Smith,
Laura Rooers White.
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Eliza Benton,
Oshea Stowell Brigham,
Orrin Cadv,
DeWitt Clinton Challis,
Anna Minerva Chandler,
James Harry Glover,


Louis Buhl King,
James Dickinson Warner,
Charles Ashley Warren,
Francis James WTest,
John Newton Wheatley,
Charles Royal Wing.


BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Isaac Adams, Jr..
Frank Eugene Arnold,
Frank Lawton Axtell,
Mlichael Brennan, Jr.,
Frederick Augustus Cady,
Alpheus Whitney Clark,
Robert Harris Come,
Charles Hall Cook.
Lyman Decatur Follett,
George Pinckney Glenn,
Annie Granger,
George Fisk Gross,


Frank Clark Hayman,
Almon Franklin Hoyt,
George Hugh Jameson,
Theodore Hitchcock Johnston,
Chester Taylor Lane,
Don Alonzo Matthews,
Fred Augustus Maynard,
Joseph Ronald Miller,
Wilbur Fisk Reed,
Henry Wade Rogers,
Mary Downing Sheldon,
Herbert Artemas Thayer,




350


Emma Maria Hall.              Calvin Thomas,
George Edmund Hall,           Henry Thomas Thurber,
John Townsend Hall, Jr.,      William Henry Townsend,
Sarah Dix Hamlin,             John Van Buren Vorce,
George Lester Harding,        William Henry Wells,
Edward William Withey.
F. A. BLACKBURN,
Secretary of the Faculty.
On motion of Regent Walker, the degrees were awarded in
accordance with the recommendation of the faculty.
The following communication from Mr. F. A. Blackburn,
Secretary, was received:
ANN ARBOR, June 22d, 1874.
The Honorable Board of RegentsGENTLEMEN-I am instructed by the Faculty of the Literary Department to transmit the following resolution:
Resolved, That the recommendation of Mr. Charles Joseph Thomas
for the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy be withheld for the present,
as a penalty for the offense of drunkenness, and that he be recommended to the board for the degree mentioned, at their next meeting.
The foregoing is a true copy of the resolution of the Faculty of
Science, Literature, and the Arts, adopted June 22d 1874.
F. A. BLACKBURN, Sec. of Faculty.
The communication was accepted and placed on file.
Regent Rynd presented the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Steward be required to charge from and after
the first of October next such annual rental for all dwellings occupied
by professors on the University grounds, as such dwellings will command in market.
The resolution was lost by the following vote:
Ayes-Regent Rynd.
Nays-Regents Gilbert, Estabrook, McGowan, Grant and Walker.
An itemized statement of apparatus and cases needed in the
Museum and an estimate of the cost of the same was received
from Prof. Hilgard, who asked tor a special appropriation to
meet the expense.




351


On motion of Regent Gilbert, the paper was laid on the
table.
The annual report of the Professor of Geology, Zoology and
Botany was also received, and on motion of Regent Gilbert it
was accepted and ordered printed in the minutes.
REPORT OF PROF. E. W. HILGARD.
To the President of the UniversityIn my previous reports I have refrained from any general statement regarding the wants of my department, fiom an unwillingness
to enter into any thorough discussion, or to make sweeping recommendations, without a full knowledge from personal observation and experience, both of the actually available resources, and of the special
requirements for the instruction of classes so much larger, and so
differently prepared from those I have heretofore dealt with. I now,
however, deem it proper to present to you my view of the condition of
things in my department, and of the necessary and desirable additions
to be made hereafter.
In so doing I take for granted the axiom, now universally admitted
by teachers of Science, that instruction in the objective sciences should,
and to be successful must, be based on the actual demonstration of
facts; and that no amount of theoretical discussion based upon a verbal
enunciation of such facts (whether viva voce or through text books) can
properly be substituted for that demonstration and personal observation which has been, and always must be, the essential means of progress in the hands of the founders and actual investigators of natural
science. Few students whose knowledge of natural science is derived
from mere lectures or text-book recitations, can feel in them even as
much interest as in the most recondite metaphysical or mathematical speculations, which at least they can " evolve out of their own consciousness." To attempt the study or teaching of the physical sciences
through a mere recital of facts, rarely proves otherwise than most
barren and unprofitable.  Even that most universally attractive
branch of Natural History-botany-is thus readily rendered as wearisome as memorizing the multiplication table, or the conjugation of
irregnlar verbs. Object teaching ceases here to be a matter of choice,
but is of first and imperative necessity.
The provision for the needful means of demonstration of course
renders efficient instruction expensive; and in such branches as involve




352


the study of specimens, the means of illustration must be measurably
proportioned to the numbers of the class under instruction.
I do not over-state the case when I say that when I took charge of
the department, I found it grievously deficient in the means of demonstration suitable for class instruction; and that I felt seriously embarrassed as to the means of rendering instruction reasonably efficient in
presence of such large classes, whose mixed character forbade their
subdivision into convenient sections. Many of these wants and deficiencies have been repeatedly insisted upon by my predecessor; and the
constant and rapid increase of the classes choosing these branches of
study, now renders a suitable provision for them only more imperative.
During the first semester, the absence of a reasonably complete set of
crystal models, greatly hampered and retarded instruction in Mineralogy. At the end of the semester, a set of models was obtained; but
the diagrams necessary for class instruction are still wanting.
For instruction in Geology, during the second semester, the appliances were even more incomplete, in the absence of any available
diagrams beyond three large geological wall maps. As it would have
been impracticable to provide for these in time either by ink drawings
on linen, or by black-board work, I urged the purchase of a magic
lantern (Marcy's Sciopticon), the slides for which I hoped to be able to
draw as required. I have found this mode of illustration and demonstration eminently useful and satisfactory; the more as the time required to finish a fair ink drawing on a glass slide is but a small
fraction of that which would be needed in making a large diagram. It
proved, however, very trying to the eyes; so that after making some
40 drawings in rather quick succession, I was compelled to relinquish
the work altogether, and have not yet recovered from the effects of the
unfortunate experiment.  In this emergency I called for volunteer
draughtsmen from among the class; and it gives me pleasure to say
the response was most liberal enabling me to keep up the illustration
of the most salient features nearly to the end of the course. About
170 drawings of permanent value have thus been made by members of
the class; some of whom for weeks devoted one or more hours daily to
the task, and produced drawings -scarcely second in value to photographs. Among these volunteers, Misses White, Sheldon, and Benton,
and Messrs. Barnard and Bean, deserve especial mention; Messrs.
Everitt, Earl and West, have also rendered material assistance in time
of need.
Prof. Harrington has similarly illustrated his course of Structural
Botany with the Pharmacy class, by drawings made by himself.
But while the availability and importance of this method in the




353


instruction especially of large classes was thus emphatically demonstrated, we also have become strongly sensible of the necessity for
greater completeness and variety, especially for purposes of recitation.
An opportunity for obtaining full and well selected sets of the photographic illustrations at less than half the rates asked by dealers, and
of a character greatly superior, is now offered us at Cornell University,
where Prof. Hartt has undertaken to supply a want long felt by
teachers of science in this country. I urgently request that a special
appropriation be placed at my disposal for this purpose as speedily as
possible. I consider this one of the most imperative wants of the
Department.
It is very important that the Drummond or lime light should be
substituted for the coal oil lamp now used in the magic lantern. This
would obviate the necessity of darkening the room to the extent now
required, involving frequent changes of light which are severely felt
by persons whose eyes are weak, so that several students have been
obliged to withdraw whenever the lantern illustrations were used.
We would thus also be enabled to use the solar microscope, so import.
ant in teaching structural botany, without having to wait for sunshine.
During the past session the specimens used for demonstration and
study have suffered some loss, and a great deal of unnecessary exposure to dust and careless handling, from the want of glazed cases in the
lecture rooms; which necessitated their arrangement on tables. I have
already, in a former report, insisted on this point, which I consider of
capital importance. Sets of specimens specially intended for instruction should be permanently kept in these cases, distinct from the museum collection-thus avoiding a great amount of labor now required
in selecting and transferring them from the general collection, and redistributing.
The liberal use of specimens and diagrams in instruction necessitates, of course, a good deal of preliminary work in the lecture-room;
it also requires considerable space, both on walls and tables. This
renders the joint use of the same room for different branches exceedingly inconvenient, and to a certain extent absolutely impracticable.
It interferes not only with the preparations] for lectures,'but excludes
many students from the study of specimens, and distracts the attention
of the classes from the subject in hand, by the multifarious nature of
the objects simultaneously displayed. The conflict of hours has already
rendered necessary the use of a separate room (B) for botany; and it
is extremely desirable that zoology should be similarly accommodated.
A suitable room for the purpose is that on the third floor of the museum building, which has served as a depot of duplicate specimens. These




354


have been transferred to the garret, and one side of the room covered
with glazed cases, intended for specimens illustrative of comparative
anatomy. It has, moreover, been occupied by students of the latter
subject, as a dissecting room. Its use for that purpose is somewhat
objectionable, on account of the inevitable evil odors; but being on the
same floor as the zoological collection, it is well adapted to the use as a
lecture room of zoology, if only provided with suitable furniture, and
heating arrangements.
A dissecting room is of course needed; but it can readily be partitioned off in the garret, if a skylight is provided for the purpose. No
odors can thus find their way into the museum, and a space now use,
less can then be made available for a most important purpose.
It is hardly possible, however, to pursue the study of comparative
anatomy successfully without the use of a few well prepared typical
skeletons, of which at present there is an utter lack. We want at least
a human skeleton, and five or six representing the chief animal types.
Both in zoology and geology, however, there is one great desideratum, viz.: the Ward collection of casts of fossils, with its supplement of
restored fossil monsters.  Our collections, while quite full on some
special features, are quite deficient in the representation of a great
number of the most important fossil forms. This collection, which
now forms part of the museums of most of our prominent institutions
of learning, would constitute not only a point of great interest to
students, but also a great attraction to visitors at large, and would not
fail to exert a powerful influence in promoting the study of the natural
sciences in the State.
There is also a pressing need for a larger number of microscopes
in the department of botany and zoology. The three now in use are
altogether inadequate for the instruction of our large classes-a dozen
would barely enable us to do justice to all.
But the great requirement for efficient instruction of our numerous
freshman classes in botany, is that the means of demonstration should
be available throughout the session instead of a few weeks at the end of
the course. As at present arranged, an unreasonable amount of work
is compressed into the last six weeks, so as to either require five or six
recitations a day of the instructor, or involve the handling of classes
too large by far for efficient instruction. This work could easily be
scattered through the session, and made much more efficient, if we had
a green-house at command, from which the proper specimens could at
all times be obtained. For the higher courses in botany, and especially
that of pharmacy, the green-house and botanical garden are still more
necessary-a fact so well recognized everywhere as to render its dis



355


cussion needless. A herbarium of dried plants is but slightly available
for class study; and the impression made, and interest excited, in the
mind of the student by a sight of the growing plant, bears about the
same relation to the study of the dried specimen, as does verbal instruction to recitations from a text-book.
For instruction in geology we need at least three large wall maps;
one of the World, on Mercator's projection; one of North America;
and one of the State of Michigan.
MUSEUM.
I submit herewith reports of the additions made to the Museum,
and of the work done during the past session. In both respects, important progress has been made; yet a great deal more could and would
have been accomplished, but for the want of appliances for heating,
which renders our museum practically useless for the purposes of study
and general work, during at least five months in the year; and those
the months when its use is most important. Much of the ill health I
have experienced during the past winter, is directly chargeable to
colds caught, or aggravated, almost daily, in selecting specimens for use
in the lecture room. Students who desired to make a specialty of certain departments, or volunteeredto do some of the work so urgently
needed, of arranging and re-labeling, were unable to do so in consequence of the arctic temperature prevailing there. Some relief was
afforded by throwing into the Museum the heat from the lecture room
when the latter was not in use; but for several months even this means
was not available, in consequence of severe weather, and the occupancy of the lecture room by students engaged in the study of specimens.
I consider the provision for heating the Museum as the most imperative want of the Department. It is probable that it would not be
necessary to keep the room at a working temperature more than three
or four days in the week; often less. But to leave the Museum of
Natural History practically inaccessible during the larger part of the
course, is so palpably inexpedient as to render discussion superfluous.
As to the manner of accomplishing the object, I have no preference,
save in so far as relates to efficiency and safety. Steam would of course
be best.
A very large amount of work needs to be done in the Museum,
both in the way of determining, labeling, and arranging specimens.
Moreover, the majority of those pasted on cards must be repasted, the
cement heretofore used being too weak to hold them.



