
Proceedings of the Board of Regents


The University of Michigan


July 1996 - June 1997




JULY MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 18, 1996
The Regents met at 10:25 a.m. in the Welker Room of the Michigan
Union. Present were Interim President Neal and Regents Baker, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Provost Machen, Executive Vice
President Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford and Harrison, Acting Vice
President Neidhardt, and Secretary Palmer were also present, as were Vice
Provost Dumas and General Counsel Cole. Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor
Renick, and Vice President Kinnear were absent. Regents Deitch and Horning
joined the meeting at 10:30 a.m.
Executive Session Motion
President Neal called on Regent McFee, who read the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on July 18, 1996, in the Welker Room, Michigan
Union, for the purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding
trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending
litigation (section 8e) and of considering material exempt from
discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act (section 8h). Such exempt material consists of written opinions
from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session until 12:55 p.m., at which
time the executive session adjourned.
The Regents reconvened at 1:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present
were Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and
Varner. Interim President Neal, Provost Machen, Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford and Harrison, Chancellors Nelms and
Renick, and Secretary Palmer were also present. Vice President Kinnear and
Acting Vice President Neidhardt were absent.
President's Report
President Neal thanked the Board of Regents for their trust and
confidence and stated that he intended to continue the momentum of the
previous leadership and to help make possible a smooth transition for the next
president. He noted that his immediate challenge since he had assumed the
presidency had involved the transitions underway at the Medical Center. He
then commented on the unique capacity of this university to meet this
challenge and noted that very few institutions would be in the enviable
position of being able to identify, in a very quick fashion, individuals of the




July Meeting, 1996


caliber of the two individuals being recommended to fill the positions of dean
of the Medical School and executive director of University of Michigan
Hospitals.
President Neal commented on the long, distinguished service of Mr. John
Forsyth, noting that he had established the first University-owned health
maintenance organization (M-Care), and that he had overseen the significant
growth in the Medical Center that has occurred over the past decade. On
behalf of the executive officers he expressed the "tremendous appreciation we
have for the contributions that John has made to this institution." There
followed a round of applause.
President Neal called on Regent Power, who read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute John D.
Forsyth, president and chief executive officer of the University of
Michigan Health System, as he leaves the University of Michigan to
become president and CEO of ISAD Health Services Corporation in
Iowa.
John has spent his entire 26-year professional career at the
University of Michigan. After receiving bachelor's and master's
degrees from Michigan State University, he joined the staff of the
University of Michigan personnel office where, from 1970-76, he held a
number of progressively more responsible staff and management
positions and rose to director of Medical Center Human Resources in
1976.  He was promoted to deputy executive director and chief
operating officer of UM Hospitals in 1983 and executive director of
UM Hospitals in 1985. He has served as president and CEO of the
UM Health System since its creation in February 1996.
As executive director of UM Hospitals, John oversaw a $1.2
billion budget, representing 45 percent of the entire University
budget. During his tenure, he led the transformation of the health
system that built reserves from zero to $700 million in ten years and
led to an AA rating by Standard & Poor's. Under his leadership,
the University established M-Care HMO, constructed and activated
the $150 million Maternal and Child Health Care Center, and
implemented a statewide networking strategy. His administration
also instituted a nationally-recognized total quality program and an
employee-empowerment program, as well as cost efficiency programs
that reduced costs by more than $150 million over four years.
A relaxed, accessible, and responsive administrator, John scheduled
breakfast meetings, call-in sessions, and semi-annual open forums to
ensure the broadest possible participation by the health system's
thousands of employees as the system    underwent its steady
transformation. His top priorities have always been the UMH employees
and the patients they serve. John's wife, Rita, has also been an active
member of the University community. She serves as a member of the


2




July Meeting, 1996


Ronald McDonald House board of directors and developed and
implemented an innovative program to improve the in-patient experience
for Cancer Center patients and their families.
In recognition of his extraordinary accomplishments, the Regents
wish to convey their deepest respect, admiration, and gratitude to
John D. Forsyth for his exemplary, long-term service to the University
of Michigan, and wish him continued success as he leaves Ann Arbor
to pursue new challenges in this next phase of his career.
Regent Baker expressed support for the motion. Mr. Forsyth thanked
the current and previous executive officers and the Regents, noting that "we
couldn't have done the things we've been able to do without the support of both
the executive officers and the Regents." There followed a round of applause.
President Neal then called for a motion on the action request before the
Board to change the title of Dean Giles Bole. President Neal observed that
Dr. Bole had served as dean of the Medical School since 1990 and had spent his
entire, 38-year career at the University of Michigan. Under his leadership, the
Medical School has risen in the U.S. News and World Report rankings from
16th to 9th and to 9th in total research funding. His accomplishments also
include the redesign of the Medical School curriculum and improvement in
the school's physical facilities. President Neal expressed his deep appreciation
to Dean Bole "for his many contributions to this University. We are very
pleased that although he is leaving the deanship, he will remain on the faculty
and will continue to be a part of the University community." There followed
a round of applause.
Regent Baker moved that the title of Giles G. Bole be changed to dean
emeritus and professor of internal medicine, effective August 1, 1996. Regent
McFee seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.
Regents Baker thanked Dean Bole for his role in leading the Medical
School during a time of great change in medical education. Regent McFee
observed that she had been very proud of the changes that Dr. Bole had made
in the Medical School, and that his leadership has been most appreciated.
Regent Deitch observed that "Dr. Boles' 38 years of commitment to one
institution is remarkable," and that he "had benefited from his sagacity and
his commitment to Michigan."
Dean Bole thanked the Regents and executive officers for the
opportunity to serve in the variety of roles he has filled. He observed that
academic medical centers are at a crossroads, and that the options and
alternatives for the future present a challenge for society and the public, but
especially for governing boards and officers who have a commitment to the
academic enterprise.
There followed a round of applause, after which President Neal asked
for consideration of the appointment of A. Lorris Betz as interim dean of the
Medical School and Larry Warren as interim executive director of University
of Michigan Hospitals.


3




July Meeting, 1996


Regent Horning moved approval of A. Lorris Betz as interim dean of the
Medical School; Regent Power seconded the motion. President Neal reported
that Dr. Betz is currently senior associate dean and professor of neurosurgery
and neuroanatomy at the Medical School. Provost Machen observed that Dr.
Betz is a nationally known researcher and that his appointment was
enthusiastically supported throughout the Medical School. The vote was then
taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Regarding the recommendation of Larry Warren as interim executive
director of University of Michigan Hospitals, President Neal observed that
Mr. Warren had served as the senior associate hospital director and chief
operating officer of the University of Michigan Hospitals since January 1994.
Executive Vice President Womack noted that Mr. Warren had brought a
distinguished record of service to the University, and that he has the support
of the hospitals staff to fill this position. He pointed out that Mr. Warren's
title will be interim executive director of University of Michigan Hospitals.
This was the title being used until February 1996, and reverting back to it in
no way indicates that this position is less than Mr. Forsyth's position. The
fact that the Regents Communications requesting Dr. Betz's and Mr.
Warren's appointment was signed by the University's three senior executive
officers is meant to indicate the amount of empowerment being given to them.
Regent Horning moved approval of the appointment of Larry Warren as
interim executive director of University of Michigan Hospitals; Regent
McFee seconded the motion. There being no further discussion, the vote was
taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Regent McFee observed that it is because of the strength of Dr. Boles'
and Mr. Forsyth's leadership over the past several years that the University
is in a position to discuss how to preserve its academic health center rather
than close it down. She welcomed the two new officers to continue in this
endeavor.
Trends in U.S. Academic Health Centers
President Neal called on Mr. Geoffrey Shields, of Gardner, Carton &
Douglas, and his associate, Michael Staab, for a presentation on "Trends in
U.S. Academic Health Centers." He noted that Mr. Shields and his firm have
been involved in over 200 restructurings of hospital systems.
Mr. Shields first described current trends in health care, noting that as
HMO enrollment increases, hospital utilization decreases, and that HMO
enrollment is increasing in Michigan. He noted that the University is
currently the highest-cost provider in its market, and it must become the
lowest-cost provider in order to compete. The University most likely needs
to become part of a broader system in order to increase the number of
referrals, enhance its bargaining power, and achieve economies of scale. Mr.
Shields pointed out that as primary care physicians are absorbed by other
systems, and as the uniqueness of teaching hospitals is being eroded, the
disruption of referral patterns results in decreased volume and profit.


4




July Meeting, 1996


He went on to describe three alternative structures that the University
could consider: down sizing, selling, and expanding, and pointed out the
advantages and disadvantages of each structure.
Mr. Shields then yielded to Mr. Staab, who described what other academic
medical centers have done to decrease business risk, increase business
opportunity, and better coordinate medical school, university, and hospital
relationships. He noted that the challenge is to run the university hospital
as a business while respecting the academic and research missions of the
medical school. Mr. Staab described the advantages and drawbacks of some
of the methods that have been used by other academic medical centers,
including 1) spinning off the university hospital into a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit
corporation or public authority; 2) sale or lease of the hospital to a proprietary
company; 3) merging into a not-for-profit network with 50% or less control;
and 4) not restructuring. He noted that universities that have not restructured
report that it is important that there be central decision-making authority for
the hospital and medical school, led by one individual, preferably a medical
doctor with a business background; there is a consensus that a lay person in
charge of the medical center and medical school will not work. The drawbacks
to this system are the slow nature of the bureaucratic university decisionmaking process, the critical importance of accurate, long-range forecasting of
market trends, and the financial risk to the university if the hospital is not
financially successful.
During the presentation, Messrs. Shields and Staab responded to
questions from the Regents about the various restructuring options. It was
pointed out that none of the academic medical centers that were used as
illustrations of the various options are considered peer institutions to the
University of Michigan.
Regent Newman inquired as to whether it would be possible for the
University Hospital to change its procedures with regard to purchasing,
personnel issues, benefits, etc., if it were to retain its current structure.
Regent Deitch suggested that it might be helpful to arrange meetings for
some of the Regents with officials from Duke University, Emory, and
University of Pennsylvania to learn how they have maintained their
traditional structures while protecting themselves in their marketplaces.
Mr. Staab concluded with the observation that in the managed care
system, the fact that an institution is a top-tier academic medical center is
immaterial: costs are the bottom line.
Following the presentation and discussion, there was a five-minute
break at 3:10 p.m.
Proposed 1996-97 Operating Budgets
President Neal observed that the University appreciates the efforts of
the governor and legislature in making higher education an important
priority in 1996-97; their actions have resulted in one of the lowest
recommended tuition increases in many years.


5




July Meeting, 1996


He called on Executive Vice President Womack, who gave a slide
presentation describing the current funds revenue and expenditure budgets
for all campuses and the four funds of which they are comprised. The
1996-97 Current Funds budget totals consist of $2.733 billion in revenues
and $2.611 billion in expenditures. Revenues include $343.0 million in state
appropriations and $466.0 million in student tuition and fees. The total
revenue increase is 6.0 percent; the total expenditure increase is 6.7 percent.
The total budget revenues are comprised of the Auxiliary Activities
Fund (48 percent, consisting of 41 percent in medical activities and 7 percent
in other activities); the General Fund (32 percent); the ExpendableRestricted Fund (17 percent); and the Designated Fund (3 percent). He noted
that the General Fund represents the leverage for all of the other funds and
turned to Provost Machen to review the General Fund Budget.
Proposed 1996-97 General Fund Operating Budget
Provost Machen reviewed the fundamental budget objectives, which are
to maintain and enhance the quality of instructional and research programs;
to increase the quality of the undergraduate educational experience; to
maintain and enhance access for Michigan undergraduates; and to continue
to move toward racial and gender diversity more closely related to proportions
in the population. Major initiatives to achieve these objectives have been
Value Centered Management (VCM) (which will expand the entrepreneurial
enterprise and achieve increased efficiency through greater cost control);
M-Quality (which will improve the quality of service); and Re-engineering (to
reexamine and redesign the University's business processes).
Provost Machen pointed out that there were two key factors influencing
budget planning: 1) preparation for the implementation of VCM, in which
revenue associated with centrally-funded programs is being transferred to
the units and responsibility for these programs will be transferred from the
provost's office to the units; and 2) enrollment decline and shifts in the
composition of the student body. He noted that a reduction of 200-300
students results in millions of dollars worth of lost revenue, and that the
under-realization of FY96 enrollment projections led to a $4.8 million
shortfall in budgeted tuition revenue. Projections for FY97 indicate further
reductions in student enrollment, which are expected to have a revenue
impact of $5.1 million.
Provost Machen explained that some schools, such as the Medical School
and School of Art and Design, have planned enrollment reductions. There
has also been a change in the mix of resident and nonresident students, as
well as a reduction in the number of graduate students. At the graduate
level, this can be attributed to both the size and quality of the applicant pool
and to costs. He pointed out that an out-of-state resident can attend medical
school at Harvard for less money than at the University of Michigan. Similar
price differentials occur for other graduate and professional programs.
At the undergraduate level, the number of applicants has not
diminished, but the level of selectivity has been affected for nonresident


6




July Meeting, 1996


applicants by the high nonresident tuition rate, which is very high relative to
other state universities and within the range of private peer institutions.
Regent Deitch observed that increased costs have the potential of
diminishing the quality of the applicant pool. Whereas at one point,
out-of-state applicants would have come in part because of the significant
price advantage, as this advantage has diminished, people make different
decisions. Therefore, he raised the issue of whether the University should be
focusing on cost containment to help regain market share. Provost Machen
responded that the University has already been focusing on cost containment.
Regent Newman posed the question of why, given decreasing
enrollment, is the University increasing capacity and increasing costs for
operation and maintenance of buildings, housing, and other areas? Provost
Machen noted that the enrollment decline has been insignificant, averaging
about one percent, or 300-500 students. Fixed costs are already "in the
pipeline." The increased costs in the current budget are for new buildings
coming on line, commitments for which were made many years ago.
Regent Power pointed out that VCM allows academic units to manage
their enrollment as part of their costs and revenue stream.
In response to Regent Newman's question as to how much fixed costs
will increase for the proposed budget, Provost Machen stated that the new
added costs in the 1996-97 budget total $4.5 million. During this transition
year, these costs will continue to be managed centrally, but upon full
implementation of VCM next year, they will be managed by units within
their own budgets.
Provost Machen observed that the University's state appropriation
increase of 4.6 percent was the second lowest of all of the other state
institutions. On the other hand, the University's national leadership in
sponsored research activity is projected to yield a 6.9 percent increase in
indirect cost recovery.
The 1996-97 expenditure plan includes a base budget increase for salary
programs that will require internal reallocation by the units to assure a
merit program on the order of the rate of inflation; a nine percent increase in
student financial aid in order to meet the financial need of all Michigan
undergraduates; maintaining new and renovated spaces; and targeted faculty
hiring.
Provost Machen displayed a table detailing the categories and amounts
of revenue and expenditures that comprise the total General Fund revenue
and expenditure budget increase of $26.3 million. He also displayed a chart
illustrating that this is the smallest percent change in budgeted General
Fund revenue increase since 1962.
In response to Regent Newman's question about the financial aid
budget, Provost Machen stated that the General Fund financial aid budget
for 1996-97 will be $83.1 million, or $6.9 million more than in 1995-96. She
also asked what percentage of students receive financial aid from the
University's funds, and Associate Vice President Holbrook responded that


7




July Meeting, 1996


about 40 percent of undergraduate students receive financial aid, which
consists of a package of University funds in the form of grants, combined
with federal funds in the form of loans. A high percentage of graduate students
receive aid, in a wide variety of forms. As for the average amount of University
aid received, this is best viewed as the total amount of $83.1 million
expenditure for grants against the $405.6 million revenue for tuition and fees.
Provost Machen then displayed charts indicating the proposed FY
1996-97 General Fund Operating Budget by academic unit and by executive
officer area and a listing of the 1996-97 increases in resident undergraduate
tuition for first year students at other Michigan public universities and at Big
Ten universities.
Regent Deitch inquired as to whether the other public universities also
had a tuition differential for lower and upper division students, and what the
rationale is for this differential. Provost Machen responded that most other
institutions also employ a similar tuition differential. He noted that the tuition
differential exists because traditionally the cost for upper division courses is
greater than that for lower division courses, due to the type of courses being
taken once students begin concentrating on their majors.
Regents Deitch and Newman questioned this rationale, with Regent
Newman expressing the opinion that this is a disincentive to remaining in
school. Provost Machen responded that he was not aware that the increased
tuition rates for upper division students had any relationship to the graduation
rate. Regent Deitch wondered why, given the fact that there is an existing
differential to account for higher costs for upper level undergraduate courses,
the rate of increase wouldn't be equal for lower and upper division students,
rather than the 3 percent and 5 percent respective increases proposed for
lower and upper division resident tuition rates. Provost Machen responded
that there are many factors that go into the setting of tuition rates. He also
showed a chart illustrating the comparatively low cost for a Michigan resident
to attend the University of Michigan as compared to the top 25 nationally
ranked universities.
In summary, he announced that the recommended increases in student fee
rates for 1996-97 are three percent for lower division resident undergraduates,
five percent for all other students, and differential increases for specific graduate
programs that reflect special market or cost factors.
Regent McFee pointed out that it is important that everyone recognize
that in order to keep the tuition increase at its lowest level in many years,
many people throughout the University must work hard to keep down costs.
UM-Dearborn General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates for 1996-97
Chancellor Renick reported that because of the 11.9 percent increase in
state appropriation for its campus, the UM-Dearborn is proposing a modest
2.8 percent resident student tuition increase, no increase in nonresident
tuition, and no increase in fees. The proposed budget will allow the campus
to maintain and enhance its mission; to establish new faculty lines in the
Colleges of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, Education, and Engineering; to fund


8




July Meeting, 1996


new facilities operating costs; and to provide a modest salary program for
faculty and staff.
He noted that UM-Dearborn expects an enrollment growth of about two
percent.
UM-Flint General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates for 1996-97
Chancellor Nelms observed that UM-Flint has three objectives in its
1996-97 budget plan: 1) to continue moving more activities out of the
contingency budget category to the general fund; 2) to begin to implement its
recently completed academic plan by adding new faculty lines in high
demand areas, such as physical therapy and nursing; and 3) to implement a
salary program of about four percent. The campus has also begun an
enrollment management program with the intention of adjusting services to
emphasize retaining students, rather than focusing on attracting new students.
The UM-Flint budget is predicated on a 5.5 percent increase in state
appropriation and proposed tuition increases of 3.9 percent for lower division
undergraduate students and 4.9 percent for upper division undergraduate
students and varying percentage increases in graduate and professional
programs, as well as a 3.7 percent increase in registration and infrastructure
fees and 4.0 percent increase in the technology fee. He pointed out that this
will be the first year that there will be a differential fee increase for lower
and upper division undergraduate students, due to the increased cost of
providing instruction for upper division students. Chancellor Nelms observed
that even with these tuition and fee increases, UM-Flint will be eleventh of
the fifteen public state institutions with respect to cost.
Chancellor Nelms reported that although the campus is not budgeting for
an enrollment increase, it is anticipating a moderate increase in enrollment.
Vice President Hartford recognized students in attendance at the meeting
who are participating in Leadership 2017, a summer student leadership
program.
There followed a five minute recess, after which the meeting reconvened
in the Regents' Room at 4:15 p.m. to hear public comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Fiona Rose, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, about the 1996-97 operating budget and student tuition
rates; and Audrey Jackson, alumna, about affirmative action policies.
Following public comments, the meeting recessed at 4:30 p.m.
Friday, July 19, 1996
The Regents met at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Neal and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horing, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Provost Machen, Executive Vice President


9




July Meeting, 1996


Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford and Harrison, Chancellors Nelms and
Renick, and Secretary Palmer were also present. Vice Presidents Kinnear
and Neidhardt were absent.
President's Report
President Neal called the meeting to order. He commented that at the
September meeting he planned to report on the major issues and priorities
for the coming year. Among these are the implementation of Value Centered
Management, budget issues, Hospitals and Medical School issues, and NCAA
re-certification. He said that he and the executive officers are committed to
preserving continuity and building a sense of community on campus, acting
on matters that are time sensitive, and assisting the Regents and the
University with the transition to the new president.
President Neal noted that the Supreme Court had decided not to review
a lower court's ruling that found consideration of race in admissions decisions
at the University of Texas to be unconstitutional (Hopwood v Texas). He
stated that since the University of Michigan has been a leader in broadening
access to its educational opportunities, it would be appropriate to review its
programs in light of trends that appear to be arising nationwide. He expects
there to be a report to the Board by the October meeting on the University's
programs in order to assess their status; this review may include consultation
with outside counsel.
Statement by Regent Baker. Regent Baker read from a prepared
statement, a copy of which is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the
University. He noted that it is possible that a case similar to Hopwood could
be filed against the University of Michigan. He quoted from a Detroit News
article in which University of Michigan professor Carl Cohen alleges that "The
University of Michigan appears to be operating a system strongly tilted in
favor of target minorities for admission to undergraduate school, as well as the
colleges [sic] of law and medicine." Professor Cohen believes the University's
policies would make "an excellent test case for a definitive United States
Supreme Court ruling on university policies toward affirmative action."
Given the Hopwood decision and Professor Cohen's assertions, Regent
Baker stated that "the University's president and the Regents have a duty to
subject Professor Cohen's publicly stated assertions and the Hopwood
decision to review by qualified legal counsel to determine what effect, if any,
these issues have on university admission policies." He expressed support
for President Neal's plan to subject these policies to review and suggested
that the review be conducted by independent outside counsel.
Comments from Regent McFee. Regent McFee observed that to her,
affirmative action means an effort to bring into the upward stream of
opportunity those groups against whom either discriminatory practices, or in
some instances, discriminatory legislation, have occurred. She noted that the
University of Michigan was one of the first to admit women and members of
religious groups who were banned from other schools, and that its more
recent policies, such as the Michigan Mandate and the Agenda for Women,


10




July Meeting, 1996


continue this striving to maintain upward mobility and equal opportunity.
She believes it is paramount that this upward stream remain open to all
groups; because of this, it is critical that the University's procedures comport
with the law. Therefore, she welcomes the opportunity to "thoroughly
examine our procedures and make sure that they do comport with the law
and enable us to continue these practices."
Comments from Regent McGowan. Regent McGowan stated that
she wanted to clarify that nothing has changed. Neither the Agenda for
Women, the Michigan Mandate, nor the policies of the admissions office are
being called into question. She observed that "an examination of the results
and the implementation of our policies is always welcome, but I would be
concerned if any person here were to believe this to be a signal [that it is
meant to be any more than that]." She wanted to make clear that the
University's commitment and policies are not under review and are not being
questioned by this action; rather "a responsible inquiry as to whether our
implementation is appropriate" is what is being called for.
Proposed 1996-97 Operating Budgets
Executive Vice President Womack continued his review of the proposed
1996-97 operating budget with an examination of the Designated, Expendable
Restricted, and Auxiliary Funds. The Designated Fund consists of a collection
of funds in which a number of activities designated by the Regents, such as
conferences, seminars, and continuing education programs, occur.
The largest of all of the funds is the Auxiliary Activities Fund, of which
the Clinical Delivery System comprises 63 percent, other medical activities
comprise 23 percent, and housing, athletics, and other enterprises, make up
the remainder. He pointed out that approval of the overall budget includes
approval of the budget for the Division of Intercollegiate Athletics, since that
budget is included in the Auxiliary Activities Fund. However, details of the
athletic department budget are not included in this presentation.
Regent McGowan pointed out that the Regents had previously reviewed
details of the other major budgets that make up the Auxiliary Activities
Fund, and she expressed an interest in being provided with similar detail
with respect to the athletic department budget. Vice President Harrison
observed that the Regents receive copies of minutes of the meetings of the
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, which contain information on
all matters considered by that board, including recommended ticket price
increases. Proposed revisions to the Regental bylaw regarding this board call
for an annual report to the Board of Regents by the athletic director.
Regent McGowan stated that since the Regents are ultimately responsible
for it, she thinks the Regents should have an opportunity to review the athletic
department budget. Regent Power suggested that in the future, this should be
done prior to consideration of the overall budget. Regent Newman agreed
that in light of the amount of time that the Regents have spent reviewing
other portions of the overall budget, and given the impact that the athletic
department budget has on the University, it is important that Regents have
an opportunity to review it.
11




July Meeting, 1996


Executive Vice President Womack suggested that the Regents act on the
entire budget, subject to a full presentation of the athletic department
budget at the September Regents Meeting. In future years, this budget would
be presented earlier in the cycle to provide the same opportunity for review
and discussion that other budgets receive. The Regents expressed agreement
with this proposal.
Regent Varner left the meeting at this point, at 9:40 a.m.
Executive Vice President Womack concluded his presentation with a
review of the Expendable Restricted Fund, which is the repository for voluntary
support. Government sponsored programs comprise 63 percent of the total of
$459 million in this fund, and private gifts comprise 30 percent.
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the revenue and expenditure operating
budgets for Fiscal Year 1996-97 as presented, subject to presentation of the
detailed budget of the Division of Intercollegiate Athletics portion of the
Auxiliary Activities Fund at the September 1996 meeting. Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Power moved approval of the 1996-97 Ann Arbor General Fund
Operating Budget. Regent McFee seconded the motion. Regent McFee
observed that the incorporation of VCM into the budget makes it more
difficult to follow than in the past, but that she intends to support it. Regent
Power observed that the budget is a policy document that has VCM
embedded within it. The fact that VCM allows faculty members to behave in
an entrepreneurial fashion, knowing their costs and being in a position to
effect their revenue, is why it should be adopted.
Regent Baker commented that adoption of VCM is an important change
in process that should be carefully monitored by the administration and
about which the Regents should be kept informed.
Regent Newman commented that the Board was being asked to vote for
the budget prior to voting for its funding in the form of the student fee
increase. Regent Power then withdrew his motion and moved instead to
approve an increase in the UM-Ann Arbor student fee rates for FY 1996-97
of 3.0 percent for full-time, full-term resident lower division undergraduates;
5.0 percent for all other full-time, full-term students; and special increases
for other programs, as detailed in the Regents Communication. Regent
McFee seconded the motion.
Regent Newman stated that she has two concerns about the student fee
rates: the fact that the rates are more for upper division students than for
lower division students and that financial aid is being increased by 9 percent.
Regent Newman stated she views a financial aid increase of that dimension
as "a redistribution of wealth" and that she is unclear as to why a 9 percent
increase is necessary. She questioned whether a lesser increase in financial
aid might enable the tuition increase to stay at 3 percent for both lower and
upper division undergraduates.
Provost Machen responded that the need for the recommended level of
financial aid is very real, and he would not be in favor of any change in the


12




July Meeting, 1996


allocation of financial aid. Regent Power observed that as a public university,
the University attempts to provide "the widest possible access to the best
possible education for as many people as we can." The Board has adopted a
policy which assures that resident undergraduate students will receive
sufficient financial aid to complete their education. He noted that in the
annual budget, a portion of the tuition increase is diverted to financial aid.
He stated that the nine percent financial aid increase in the face of three
percent tuition increase is a tradeoff that he believes is appropriate.
Regent McGowan commented that her understanding of the Provost's
explanation for the tuition and financial aid increases is that in order for the
Board to continue its policy of providing sufficient financial aid for all
resident undergraduate students, the figures presented in the budget are
what is required.
Regent McFee commented that while she recognizes Regent Newman's
concerns about the fact that students who pay the full price of tuition are, in
effect, subsidizing those who receive financial aid, she has not been able to
come up with a suitable alternative. Regent Horning expressed agreement
with Regent McFee's comments and thanked Provost Machen for his efforts
at putting the budget together. He stated that although it is higher than he
would wish it to be, he would support it because "the effort is there and that
we're going in the right direction."
Regent Newman stated that she agreed with the Board's policy of
providing financial aid to all qualified resident undergraduates, but she "does
not believe that we should be putting the onus on other students to support
those students, and that there should be other ways of assisting with that."
She also believes it is inappropriate to charge upper division instate students
a higher tuition rate than lower division students. She stated that she would
have preferred a more equitable distribution of rates, and does not support
placing the burden of access to all on other students.
Regent Deitch expressed support for the budget and agreement with
some of Regent Newman's comments. He believes that in the long-term,
steps have to be taken to stop the escalation of the cost of higher education,
and that VCM is a step in that direction. He noted that the cost of a
University of Michigan education is a bargain, which is subsidized through
the state appropriation by the citizens of the state. Over the long term, he
observed that the bigger issue is "getting a hold on costs." He believes that
higher education in general has until now been insulated from some of the
cost pressures that have affected the private sector.
Regent Baker commented that tuition increases compound over the
years, to the point where the University is pricing itself out of the market for
some of its programs. Although he expressed support for the judgment of the
administration with respect to costs, he urged it to concentrate on holding
them down. Although he has opposed tuition increases sometimes in the
past, he will support this increase because of its low rate.
The vote was then taken and the recommended 1996-97 student fee
rates for the Ann Arbor campus were approved on a vote of six to one, with


13




July Meeting, 1996


Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, and Power in favor, Regent
Newman opposed, and Regent Varner absent.
President Neal pointed out that it is difficult to track the source for each
individual category of expenditure, as all revenues are pooled to form the pot
from which the expenditures are made which represent the University's
highest priorities.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the 1996-97 Ann Arbor General
Fund operating budget, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved, with Regents Baker,
Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, and Power in favor, Regent Newman
abstaining, and Regent Varner absent.
University of Michigan-Dearborn 1996-97 General Fund Budget
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn 1996-97 General
Fund budget, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan-Flint 1996-97 General Fund Budget
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Flint 1996-97 General Fund
budget, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan-Dearborn 1996-97 Student Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn 1996-97 student
fee rates, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan-Flint 1996-97 Student Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Flint 1996-97 student fee
rates, as described in the Regents Communication.
Purchasing Contract with Rebus Planning Associates
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Rebus Planning Associates.
Because the owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Samuel J. Meisels, is also a
University of Michigan faculty member, this contract falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University
of Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research
grants include the purchase of the following from Rebus Planning
Associates, Inc.:


14




July Meeting, 1996


2,186 workshop components (notebooks, overviews,
guidelines, manuals, student materials, registrations) $139,435
159 reference/education packs                     $ 10,554
666 reports and books                             $ 18,850
$168,839
The duration will be until June 30, 1997.
3.  Dr. Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of
Rebus Planning Associates.
Leasing Agreement with Barron Associates
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with Barron Associates for a medical
office building located at 4870 Clark Road, Ypsilanti, Michigan. Because Dr.
Parvis Panahi has both an equity interest in Barron Associates and is a
University of Michigan faculty member, this agreement falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Barron
Associates.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is 24 months.
The University will lease property located at 4870 Clark Road,
Ypsilanti, Michigan. The medical office facility is 1,642 square feet, at
a rental rate of $22.50 per square foot, $36,945 annually, beginning on
August 1, 1996. This rate includes all utilities and operating expenses.
The medical center will place clericals, medical office assistants, nurses,
and physicians to provide necessary primary care services to the
community.
3.  Dr. Panahi's pecuniary interest arises from his 12.07 percent interest
in Barron Associates, the owners of the building. Through Barron
Associates, he will receive a percentage of revenues generated by the
leasing of the property to the University.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University
of Michigan and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL). Because
three University of Michigan employees, Gordon Amidon, John Crison, and
Elke Lipka are also, respectively, officer, director, and stockholder (Amidon),
and employees (Crison and Lipka) of TSRL, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL).
2.  Terms of the proposed letter of award conform to University policy.
The period of performance is six months and the total cost of the
project is $23,309.


15




July Meeting, 1996


3.  None of the joint University-TSRL employees has any connection
with the project on behalf of the University. Dr. Amidon's pecuniary
interest arises by virtue of his position as an officer, director, and
principal stockholder in TSRL and Dr. Crison's and Lipka's pecuniary
interest arises by virtue of their employment by TSRL.
Reassignment Agreement with John T. Lindsay
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a reassignment agreement with John T.
Lindsay for his invention, "Semi-Insulating Bulk GaAs Semiconductor
Thermal Neutron Imaging Device." Because Mr. Lindsay is also a University
employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan, John T.
Lindsay, and Douglas S. McGregor.
2.  The contract terms include a payment to the University of 15 percent
of total consideration received by the inventors. There will be no use of
University facilities or services without appropriate approvals. John T.
Lindsay's pecuniary interest arises from his right to receive royalties
when this technology is licensed. This is in lieu of participation in the
sharing of royalties received by the University in accordance with
University policy.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted minutes of the June 20-21, 1996,
meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted the following
reports: Investment, Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations,
and Noncompetitive Purchases greater than $5,000 for the period April 1 -June 30, 1996. President Neal called attention to Projects Established and
Current Research and Sponsored Projects.
Voluntary Support. President Neal noted that Vice President Kinnear
would be presenting a major donor report in September.
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Machen submitted a
number of personnel actions and personnel reports. Chancellor Renick pointed
out the reappointment of two deans.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Ball, Deborah L., Ph.D., Professor of Education
Crocker, Keith J., Ph.D., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, and Waldo O.
Hildebrand Professor in Risk Management and Insurance, five-year term
Douglas, Susan J., Ph.D., Professor of Communication Studies


16




July Meeting, 1996


Graham, Linda M., M.D., Professor of Surgery
Grigely, Joseph C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Art
Helmuth, John A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn, three-year term, August 1, 1996
Israel, Ronen, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance
Larson, Ronald G., Ph.D., Professor of Chemical Engineering
Mazumder, Jyotirmoy, Ph.D., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, and Robert H. Lurie Professor of Engineering, five-year term
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1996
Jackson, William Shaun, Associate Professor of Art, three-year term
LoMonaco, Louis F., MFA, Associate Professor of Art, five-year term
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Brucker, Eric, Dean, School of Management, and Professor of Economics and Finance, with
tenure, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Dean, School of Management, UM-Dearborn,
five-year term, July 1, 1997
Eklund, Susan M., from Associate Dean for Student Affairs, Admissions, and Operations,
Law School, to Associate Dean for Student Affairs, Law School, three-year term
Gordan, Virginia B., from Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, Law School, to Assistant Dean
for International Programs, Law School, three-year term, September 1, 1996
Gray, Robert H., from Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure,
and Associate Dean for Curriculum and Student Affairs, School of Public Health,
to Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, and Associate Dean
for Research and Facilities, School of Public Health, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Presley, John W., Professor of Humanities, with tenure, and Dean, College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Dean, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
UM-Dearborn, five-year term, July 1, 1997
Siedel, George J. III, Professor of Law, History, and Communication, with tenure, and
Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, also appointed Williamson Family
Professor of Business Administration, five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Cain, Charles A., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science with tenure,
also appointed Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering, three-year term, July 1,
1996
Cohen, Michael D., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy,
also appointed Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information
Kollmann, Judith J., from Professor of English, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
English, UM-Flint, to Professor of English, with tenure, and Interim Chair,
Department of English, UM-Flint, July 1, 1996-December 31, 1996
Lafontaine, Francine, from Sanford R. Robertson Associate Professor of Business
Administration and Associate Professor of Business Economics, without tenure,
School of Business Administration, to Associate Professor of Business Economics,


17




July Meeting, 1996


without tenure, School of Business Administration and Associate Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term
Lange, Kenneth, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, and Pharmacia & Upjohn
Foundation Research Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, also appointed
Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, the Arts
Scarnecchia, Suellyn, Clinical Professor of Law, also appointed Associate Dean for Clinical
Affairs, Law School, two-year term
Stewart, Abigail J., Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Director, Institute for Research on Women and
Gender, reappointed Director, Institute for Research on Women and Gender, threeyear term
Whitman, Christina L. B., Professor of Law and Women's Studies, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Law School, two-year term, January 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, leave without salary extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Betz, A. Lorris, from Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
Professor of Pediatrics, without tenure, Professor of Surgery, without tenure,
Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, and Executive
Associate Dean, Medical School, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, Professor of Pediatrics, without tenure, Professor of Surgery, without
tenure, Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, and
Interim Dean, Medical School, one-year term, August 1, 1996
Bagozzi, Richard P., Professor of Behavioral Science in Management, with tenure, and
Dwight F. Benton Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration,
reappointed the Dwight F. Benton Professor of Marketing, five-year term
Bole, Giles G. Jr., from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Dean, Medical School,
to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Dean Emeritus, August 1, 1996
Dutton, Jane E., Professor of Organizational Behavior, Human Resource Management, and
Corporate Strategy, with tenure, School of Business Administration, Associate
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed William Russell Kelly Professor in Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, five-year term
Hirshleifer, David A., Professor of Finance, with tenure, also appointed Merwin H.
Waterman Collegiate Professor in Finance, five-year term
Johnston, Robert E., Chair, Naval Officer Education Program, three-year term, August 1, 1996
Kieras, David E., from Associate Professor of Technical Communications, with tenure,
Department of Humanities, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, without
tenure, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, with
tenure, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science and the Arts
Lovejoy, William S., Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, also appointed John
Psarouthakis Research Professor of Manufacturing Management, two-year term
Montie, James E., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed George F. and Nancy P.
Valassis Professor of Urologic Oncology, five-year term, July 19, 1996


18




July Meeting, 1996


Quinn, Robert E., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources Management,
with tenure, also appointed the Margaret Elliott Tracy Collegiate Professor of Business
Administration, five-year term
Slemrod, Joel B., Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Paul W. McCracken Professor in
Business Economics, School of Business Administration, five-year term
Soper, E. Philip, Professor of Law, with tenure, and James V. Campbell Professor of Law,
reappointed James V. Campbell Professor of Law, five-year term
Sutcliffe, Kathleen M., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, also appointed NBD Bancorp Assistant Professor in Business
Administration, one-year term
Swaminathan, Anand, from Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, also appointed the
Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor in Business Administration, one-year term
Warren, Larry, from Senior Associate Hospital Director and Chief Operating Officer to Interim
Executive Director, University of Michigan Hospitals, one-year term, August 16, 1996
Weiss, Janet A., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure,
Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Public Policy, with
tenure, School of Public Policy, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Business
Administration, one-year term; also appointed Mary C. Bromage Collegiate Professor of
Business Administration, five-year term
Westen, Peter K., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Frank G. Millard Professor of Law,
reappointed Frank G. Millard Professor of Law, five-year term
Interim appointment approval. The Regents authorized the president or the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make
such interim appointments and/or changes as may become necessary from
August 1-31, 1996, to complete the staffing for the fall term 1995.
Artur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship of Music in Piano. The
Regents approved     the  establishment of the Artur Schnabel Collegiate
Professorship of Music in Piano, School of Music, effective September 1, 1996.
Charles Gibson Collegiate Professorship in History. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Charles Gibson Collegiate Professorship in
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective July 1, 1996.
Frederick W. Gehring Collegiate Professorship in Mathematics.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Frederick W. Gehring
Professorship in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
effective July 1, 1996.
Margaret Elliott Tracy Collegiate Professorship in Business.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Margaret Elliott Tracy
Collegiate Professorship in Business, School of Business Administration,
effective September 1, 1996.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Bruggeman, Teresa M., reappointed July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999
Evans, Billy J., July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Scott Paris, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Dillon, Kimberly D., student representative, September 1, 1996-August 31, 1998, vice Leigh
Ramos, term expired
Montgomery, Hugh L., July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Herbert Winful, term expired


19




July Meeting, 1996


Stewart, Abigail J, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Maurita Holland, term expired
Vinovskis, Maris A., July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Yale Kamisar, term expired
Military Officer Education Committee
Woods, Richard D., reappointed July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999
University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
Tremper, Kevin K., July 1, 1996-June 30, 2000, vice Tadataka Yamada, term expired
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
England, Anthony W., September 1, 1996-August 31, 1999, vice Thomas Trautmann, term
expired
McLaughlin, Catherine G., September 1, 1996-August 31, 1999, vice Fred Bookstein, term
expired
Rosenstone, Steven J., September 1, 1996-August 31, 1999, vice William Zimmerman, term
expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Saul, Joseph M., B.S., Lecturer in Urban Planning, May 1, 1996
School of Business Administration
Damien, Paul, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science,
September 1, 1996
Dichev, Ilia D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting, September 1, 1996
Williams, Jefferson, P., M.A., Lecturer in Accounting
School of Dentistrv
Zettel, Daniel M., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 1, 1996
School of Education
Donegan, Mary M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, September 1, 1996
Law School
Birnbaum, Renee, J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, June 10, 1996
Brown, Lorray S. C., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law
Cohen, Larry J., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, June 1, 1996
Frost, Philip M., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brechin, Steven R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Environmental Studies/Sociology,
September 1, 1996
Johnson, Brett R., M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese
Johnson, Melissa A., M.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, May 1, 1996
Kasmer, John M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Kou, Steven S. G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, September 1, 1996
Lee, Yiu-Keung, Lecturer I in Studio Arts, September 1, 1996
Mufti, Aamir R., M.Phil., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature,
September 1, 1996
Paddock, Todd W., M.S., Lecturer I in Biology, May 1, 1996
Pao, Maria T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Spanish, May 1, 1996
Price, Margaret B., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Ueno, Yoshiko, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese, June 10, 1996
Zirbel, Katherine E., M.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, May 1, 1996


20




July Meeting, 1996


Medical School
Benedict, Patrick E., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Biggs, Wendy S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, May 9, 1996
Bonifacio, Frank, D.O., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1996
Clark, Frank M., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1996
Cueto, Rudy A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Engel, Alan B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Field, Laura R., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Grosel, John M., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Hwang, David W., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Jaggi, Franz M., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery
Lawless, Gordon T., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Peters, Theresa R., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, May 9, 1996
Prabhu, Mythili A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Roberts-Atwater, Beverly, D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Swanson, Michele S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Szymanski, Michael L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, May 9, 1996
Yule, David I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology
School of Music
Goodrich-Weng, Linda D., B.F.A., Assistant Professor of Dance (musical theatre),
September 1, 1996
Zint, Michaela T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources and Environment,
August 1, 1996
School of Nursing
Keenan, Gail M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, September 1, 1996
School of Public Health
Jacobson, Peter D., J.D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Sheldon, Jane P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, September 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Killu, Kim, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, September 1, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Sucic, Joseph F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, September 1, 1996
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Rodda, Becky J., M.H.S., Lecturer in Physical Therapy
UM-Flint School of Management
Smith, Jack E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Human Resources
CHANGES TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Kleaveland, Mary D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, January 1, 1996
(previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Linker, Maureen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy (previously reported as Lecturer
in Philosophy)
Spoiden, Stephane J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of French, (previously reported as Lecturer
in French)


21




July Meeting, 1996


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Sweeney, Christopher J., from Lecturer in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Research Fellow, Space Physics Research Laboratory, College of Engineering,
May 1, 1996
Ward, Allen C., from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
to Adjunct Assistant Research Scientist, June 1, 1996
School of Information
Janes, Joseph W., from Assistant Professor of Information and Library Studies to Librarian,
June 17, 1996
Medical School
Alline, Kristen M., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to House Officer
Gebarski, Kathleen M., from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Lecturer in Radiology
Kershaw, David B., from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Liu, J. Rebecca, from Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology to House Officer
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Tien, Tseng-Ying, Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering, June 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Division of Kinesiology
Weikart, Phyllis S., Associate Professor Emerita of Kinesiology, May 1-August 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bartell, Lawrence S., Philip J. Elving Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, July 1-31, 1996
Eldersveld, Samuel J., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, January 1-April 30, 1997
Gosling, L. A. Peter, Professor Emeritus of Southeast Asian Studies, January 1, 1996 -April 30, 1996
van der Velde, John C., Professor Emeritus of Physics, June 1-July 31, 1996
Weinreich, Gabriel, Professor Emeritus of Physics, June 15-August 15, 1996
Medical School
Bohr, David F., Professor Emeritus of Physiology
Floyd, John C. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996-June 20, 1997
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine
Heyn, Ruth M., Professor Emerits of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Mikkelsen, William M., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine
Naylor, Bernard, Professor Emeritus of Pathology
Oxender, Dale L., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, June 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Thompson, George R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine
Whitehouse, Frank Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, May 1, 1996 -May 30, 1997
School of Public Health
Hawthorne, Victor M., Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, and
Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology, Department of Family Practice, Medical School
Romani, John H., Professor Emeritus of Public Health Administration, January 1 -December 31, 1996


22




July Meeting, 1996


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Office of the President
Kennedy, Richard L., Secretary Emeritus of the University and Vice President for
Government Relations, retirement furlough, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
School of Business Administration
Berkovitch, Elazar, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, leave without salary
School of Dentistry
Koran, Andrew III, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, May 1, 1996 -April 30, 1999
Lorey, Robert E., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1996 -June 30, 1998
Colquitt, Wayne N., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough
School of Education
To, Cho-Yee, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Engineering
Hayes, John P., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Kabamba, Pierre T., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Kikuchi, Noboru, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Mazumder, Pinaki, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
Taylor, John E., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Axelrod, Robert, Arthur W. Bromage Distinguished University Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy,
without tenure, School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Bloch, Anthony M., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Corcoran Mary E., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Professor of Social Work, without tenure, School of Social Work, and
Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Crowell, Susan E., Lecturer III in Ceramics, Residential College, leave without salary
Daniel, E. Valentine, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Director, International
Institute, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Delbanco, Nicholas F., Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -December 31, 1997
Duren, Peter L., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, on sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Feldman, Martha S., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, without
tenure, School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Frohlich, Michael, Assistant Professor of Biology, and Assistant Curator, Herbarium, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 1996
Lewis, Earl, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, without tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
MacCormack, Sabine G., Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, with tenure, and
Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1998
McLoyd, Vonnie C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican
Studies, with tenure, leave without salary
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1996
23




July Meeting, 1996


Moss, Thylias, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave
Mullaney, Steven G., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1- December 31, 1996
Stensones, Berit, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1- December 31, 1996
Thomas, Thelma K., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Associate
Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, sabbatical leave
Vandermeer, John H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Velleman, J. David, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Weisbuch, Robert A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1996, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1997
Wellman, Henry M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
White, Michelle J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, leave without salary,
June 23-July 20, 1996
College of Pharmacy
Coward, James K., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, July 1, 1996- June 30, 1997
Smith, David E., Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
August 1, 1996-January 31, 1997
School of Public Health
Oleinick, Arthur, Associate Professor of Public Health Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave
School of Social Work
Field, Shelia C., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough, phased retirement,
September 1, 1996- May 31, 2000
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Olmsted, Jennifer C., Assistant Professor of Economics, leave without salary
CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Humphreys, Sarah C., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, without
tenure, and Professor of Greek, without tenure, scholarly activity leave
(previously reported as leave without salary)
College of Engineering
Freudenberg, James S., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, scholarly active leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
(previously reported as leave without salary)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Celly, Kirti S., Assistant Professor of International Business and Marketing, resigned,
May 31, 1996
Crowston, Kevin G., Assistant Professor of Computer Information Systems, resigned
May 31, 1996


24




July Meeting, 1996


DeSarbo, Wayne S., Professor of Marketing and Statistics, with tenure, and Sebastian S
Kresge Professor of Marketing, resigned, May 31, 1996
Kazarian, Dickran A., Assistant Professor of Business Administration, resigned, May 31, 1996
Lee, Charles M. C., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1996
Natarajan, Ramachandran, Assistant Professor of Accounting, resigned May 31, 1996
O'Brien, Patricia C., Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure, resigned, May 31, 1996
Pirrong, Stephen C., Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, resigned,
May 31, 1996
Robinson, William T., Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure, resigned
School of Dentistry
Berger, Eli V., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, retired, July 14, 1996
Gregory, William A., Clinical Professor II of Dentistry, retired
Zhoa, Lily L., Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete
School of Education
Finkel, Elizabeth A., Assistant Professor of Education, resigned, August 31, 1996
Fletcher, Earl S., Instructor in Education, resigned, August 31, 1996
Moody, Charles D., Professor of Education, with tenure, and Vice-Provost Emeritus for
Minority Affairs, retired, August 31, 1996
College of Engineering
Felbeck, David K., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Atkins, Keletso E., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, resigned, May 31, 1996
Avigad, Jeremy D., T H Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor and Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, resigned, May 31, 1996
Borgers, Christoph, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, resigned
Cerrudo, Kimberly S., Lecturer II in Biology, term complete, August 31, 1995
Conekin, Becky E., Lecturer II in British History, term complete, August 31, 1995
Czinski, Margo W., Lecturer I in English, resigned, August 30, 1995
Etzion, Giore D., Lecturer I in Hebrew, resigned, May 31, 1996
Garcia, Maria B., Lecturer II in Methods of Teaching, April 30, 1996
Garner Susan E., Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete, December 31, 1995
McNamara, Leo F., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, retired
Nath, Holger, Lecturer II in Yiddish Language and Literature, term complete, April 30, 1996
Ozel, Bilge, Lecturer I in Turkish Language, term complete, August 31, 1995
Zechenter, Katarzyna A., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Medical School
Allen, Richard B., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete
Belcher, Kelvin K., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Briedahl, William H.., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Cheng, Mignonette Y., Professor of Art, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
Cole, Theodore M., Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with tenure, retired,
July 17, 1996
Covin, Randal B., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Devlin, William H., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Dumas, Michel D., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete
Frank, Thomas S., Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, resigned
Gros, Kimberly E., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Grunz, Donald J., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete
Harvey, Mark N., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, June 14, 1996
Hilborn, Mark D., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Hudson, Michael P., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Larson, Myra G., Professor of Art, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
Lawrence, Linda L., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete
Legault, Daniel J., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, July 19, 1996
Lerner, Charles A., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned


25




July Meeting, 1996


Lewis, Dorothy A., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, May 31, 1996
Marcovitz, Pamela M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, resigned
McClatchey, Kenneth D., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor
of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, retired
Pearson, Sayuri V., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
Peterson, Albert H., Instructor in Radiology, resigned, July 14, 1996
Ridings, Eric 0., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, resigned,
June 14, 1996
Tracey, David P., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete
Veltri, Salvatore, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
School of Music
Glocke, Dennis R., Assistant Professor of Conducting and Music Education, resigned,
May 31, 1996
School ofNursing
Kerr, Madeline J., Assistant Professor of Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Bartlett, Andrew C., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, resigned,
August 31, 1996
Daws, James L., Jr., Associate Research Scientist, College of Engineering, and Lecturer in
Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, retired,
June 10, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Stokes, Charlotte V., Associate Dean and Professor of Art History, with tenure, resigned,
July 5, 1996
O'Keeffe, David H., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, resigned
Rae, Wesley D., Professor of English, with tenure, retired
Richardson, Frank C., Professor of French, German, and Comparative Literature, retired
Retirement Memoirs.         Provost Machen submitted 13 retirement
memoirs. He called the Regents' attention to the retirement of Charles D.
Moody, professor of education, executive director of South African Initiatives,
and vice provost emeritus for minority affairs. Regent Baker observed that
Professor Moody had been a very helpful and stabilizing influence on campus
during the late 1980s, when he served as vice provost for minority affairs.
Kenneth W. Baird, professor of art in the School of Art and Design,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996, after a productive career
as an artist/teacher/ researcher.
A citizen of the United Kingdom, Professor Baird received his B.A.
degree from the Burnley College of Art, Burnley, UK, in 1951; his teaching
diploma from the Leeds College of Arts, Leeds, United Kingdom, in 1952; and
his M.A. and M.F.A. degree from the University of New Mexico in 1977 and
1981, respectively. Between 1954 and 1981, he held a number of positions at
educational institutions in the United Kingdom and several visiting positions
in the United States. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1982 as
assistant professor of art and was promoted to associate professor in 1984 and
professor in 1993.
In the School of Art and Design, Professor Baird taught photography,
history of photography and criticism, aerial photography, and lens derived
digital imaging. His photographic research has earned him many prestigious
commissions and awards on both sides of the Atlantic, including The Cross
Channels Photographic Mission, 1989-94, and Multilevel Photography of the


26




July Meeting, 1996


Pacific Ocean, Hawaii, and the Marshall Islands, for which he was awarded a
Rackham Research Grant in 1986. In 1983, he was awarded a John Simon
Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship for photography, the first fellowship
awarded to a British photographer.
Professor Baird exhibited extensively. His work is included in the
collections of the University of New Mexico, the Arts Council of Great Britain,
the Bishop Museum in Honolulu, the ANSVAR Corporation in England and
Sweden, and the Whitby Museum in the United Kingdom.
Over the years, Professor Baird achieved marked success in recruiting
outstanding graduate students, particularly from the United Kingdom. Several
of his former students have obtained leadership positions in institutions of
higher education, both nationally and internationally. During his tenure,
Professor Baird served on numerous committees in the School of Art and
Design and the University at large. He also was an associate fellow at the
Institute for Humanities from 1992-95.
The Regents now acknowledge the contributions of this distinguished
artist/ designer/teacher by naming Kenneth W. Baird professor emeritus of art.
Eli V. Berger, D.D.S., assistant professor of dentistry in the Department
of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry, retired from
active faculty status on July 14, 1996.
Dr. Berger received his D.D.S. degree in 1957 and his M.S. degree in
orthodontics in 1961, both from the University of Michigan. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1961 as a research associate and clinical
instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1965.
Dr. Berger was the recipient of the Milo Hellman Award, given by the
American Association of Orthodontists for the best piece of research presented
to the association, in 1962. He has held membership and offices in a number
of professional societies, including the Michigan and American Associations of
Orthodontists, the Great Lakes Association of Orthodontists, the Michigan
and American Dental Associations, the Oakland County Dental Society, and
the Tweed Foundation. He has also served as president and secretary-treasurer
of the University of Michigan Orthodontic Alumni Association. He has been a
member of the cleft palate team at Sinai Hospital and has served the Michigan
State Board of Dentistry as a member of the Orthodontic Section's Licensing
Examination Committee.
Dr. Berger has served on several thesis committees for graduate students
in orthodontics. He has been a lecturer at the Hebrew University, Hadassah
School of Medicine, and the 63rd Congress of the European Orthodontic
Society in Rhodes, Greece.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Eli V. Berger assistant professor emeritus of dentistry.
Theodore G. Birdsall, professor of electrical engineering and computer
science, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996, after a distinguished
career of 42 years at the University of Michigan.
Professor Birdsall received his B.S.E., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in 1950,
1952, and 1966, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. He began
his service at the University in 1954 as a research mathematician at the
Engineering Research Institute (now known as the Cooley Electronics


27




July Meeting, 1996


Laboratory). He was promoted to associate professor in 1967 and professor in
1970. Within the College of Engineering, Professor Birdsall has served as
director of the Cooley Electronics Laboratory and the Communications and
Signal Processing Laboratory. He has guided a significant number of graduate
students into active research careers, some of whom continue to work as
colleagues through a research consortium.
By the time he joined the faculty, Professor Birdsall had established an
international reputation in the field of signal detectability theory. His work
proved to have applicability in several fields, including sensory psychology,
psychometrics, and underwater acoustics.   Throughout his career, his
research has focused on two basic areas: signal detection and estimation (the
statistical theory of extracting information from noisey electronic signals) and
physical measurements in underwater acoustics. Professor Birdsall has
described himself as an "interface man" for his role in helping other researchers
to apply signal processing theory to their own fields of research. In 1989, he
was elected a fellow of the Acoustical Society of America for his "contributions
to the science of acoustical signal processing."
In recent years, Professor Birdsall has become involved with an
international consortium working on global warming initiatives. His work
with this consortium on the use of underwater acoustics as a means of
estimating changes in the average temperature of the oceans has received
national attention and was described in a 1991 announcement by the National
Academy of Science as "a remarkable achievement." Professor Birdsall plans
to remain actively involved with this project after his retirement.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Theodore G.
Birdsall professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
Mignonette Y. Cheng, professor of art in the School of Art and Design,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996, after a 33-year career as
an artist, teacher, and researcher.
Born in China, Professor Cheng received her early training in classical
Chinese painting at the Russian Art Academy in Shanghai. In 1953, she was
awarded a merit-based Trustee's Scholarship from Ohio University, where she
received her B.F.A. and M.F.A. degrees in 1957 and 1959, respectively.
Professor Cheng joined the faculty of the former College of Architecture
and Design as an instructor in 1963. She was promoted to lecturer and then
instructor in 1967, assistant professor in 1969, associate professor in 1971,
and professor in 1975. A superior teacher with exceptional dedication to her
students, Professor Cheng received the University's Teaching Excellence Award
in 1990. Over the course of her career, Professor Cheng also taught at the
University of Michigan/University of Wisconsin International Studies Program
in Florence, Italy. She was appointed director of this program in 1994.
Professor Cheng received, three Rackham Research Grants, in 1975,
1982, and 1988. The first was for the study of ancient Asian "B'iao"
techniques and rice paper as a contemporary medium; the second was for the
study of the tonality and structure of the English landscape; and the third
was for research in wax emulsion and oil painting, which culminated in a
retrospective exhibition at the University of Michigan Museum of Art in 1988.
She has also long been recognized with extensive regional, national, and
international awards, exhibitions, and solo shows. In October 1995, Professor


28




July Meeting, 1996


Cheng was honored with a retrospective exhibition at the Bobbitt Visual Arts
Center at Albion College, Albion, Michigan. Currently, she is exhibiting a
major show, "Themes and Variations," at the School of Art and Design's Jean
Paul Slusser Gallery, comprised of a group of watercolors from her new book,
Mignonette Yin Cheng: Watercolors of Italy (University of Michigan Press,
June 1996). Professor Cheng's work is also included in the permanent
collections of many museums and in corporate and private collections.
The Regents now salute this distinguished artist, teacher, and researcher
for her dedicated service by naming Mignonette Y. Cheng professor emerita of
art.
Theodore M. Cole, M.D., professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation, will retire from active faculty status on July 17, 1996, after a most
productive career as a teacher, researcher, and administrator.
A native of Massachusetts, Dr. Cole took his undergraduate studies at
the University of New Hampshire from 1952-55 before entering the Medical
School at Tufts University in Boston, Massachusetts, where he received his
M.D. degree in 1959. He served his internship and residency in medicine and
a fellowship in arthritis and rheumatic diseases at Tufts-New England
Medical Center in Boston from 1959-62 before completing a fellowship in
physical medicine and rehabilitation at the University of Minnesota in 1965.
From 1965-77, Dr. Cole was on the faculty at the University of Minnesota,
where he rose from assistant professor in 1965 to professor in 1974 and served
as project director of the Minnesota Regional Spinal Cord Injury Center from
1974-77. Dr. Cole became a pioneer in the field of sexuality and disability,
and in 1976-77 was co-interim director of the Program in Human Sexuality.
In 1977, Dr. Cole came to the University of Michigan as professor and
chair of the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the
Medical School. He contributed strength, vitality, and enthusiastic leadership
to the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, building it from
four part-time faculty members to its current vibrant number of twenty-three.
Dr. Cole has attained a national and international reputation in medical
rehabilitation. He has been elected or appointed to officer and board positions
in all of the field's national organizations and was recently named to the
Council of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development,
National Institutes of Health.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator and leader
for his dedicated service by naming Theodore M. Cole professor emeritus of
physical medicine and rehabilitation.
John F. Corcoran, Jr., D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the
Department of Cariology, Restorative Sciences, and Endodontics, School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1996.
Dr. Corcoran received his B.S. degree in 1963, his D.D.S. degree in 1967,
and his M.S. degree in endodontics in 1971, all from the University of
Michigan. He joined the School of Dentistry faculty as a clinical instructor in
1967 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in
1979, and professor in 1984.
In 1979, Dr. Corcoran was appointed acting chair of the Department of
Endodontics. He was named chair of the department in 1980 and served in


29




July Meeting, 1996


that capacity until 1987, when the Department of Endodontics was combined
with occlusion, operative dentistry, and practice management to form the
Department of Cariology and General Dentistry. He is a member of Omicron
Kappa Upsilon Honor Society and has certification from the American Board of
Endodontics. Dr. Corcoran has served the school and the University through
membership on a number of committees, including those governing graduate
dental education, human subjects, research, resuscitation and emergency
procedures, scholarships and promotions, and student table clinics. He has
directed the graduate program in endodontics since 1979. Dr. Corcoran's service
has extended to membership and offices in professional societies, including the
American Association of Dental Research, the American Association of Dental
Schools, the Michigan and American Associations of Endodontists, the Michigan
and American Dental Associations, and the Washtenaw District Dental Society.
Known for his dedication to teaching, Dr. Corcoran has chaired the
master's thesis research for over 35 students. He has also developed videotapes
and teaching manuals to complement the School of Dentistry's curriculum in
endodontics. He has been a lecturer at major meetings and study clubs, both
nationally and internationally. His main research interests have included
studies on endodontic filling materials and wound healing and root repair
techniques.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming John F. Corcoran, Jr., professor emeritus of dentistry.
David K. Felbeck, professor of mechanical engineering, Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1996.
Professor Felbeck received his B.S. degree from Cornell University in
1948 and his M.S., M.E., and Sc.D. degrees from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (MIT) in 1949, 1951, and 1952, respectively. He was the
Rhodes Scholar candidate from Cornell University in 1948. He held the U.S.
Fulbright Lectureship to the Technical University of Delft, Netherlands, in
1952-53 and was on the MIT faculty from 1953-55. From 1955-61, he served
on the staff of the National Academy of Sciences in Washington, D.C. He came
to the University of Michigan in 1961 as associate professor of mechanical
engineering and was promoted to professor in 1965.
Professor Felbeck has published extensively in the area of metallurgical
failure analysis, with an emphasis on accident causation and prevention. His
areas of expertise include acoustic emission in aluminum alloys, strain aging in
steel, brittle fracture of steel, the development of high-toughness graphite/epoxy
composites, and the effects of extended space exposure on these composites.
He is a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and a life
member of the American Society for Metals, from which he received the Wilson
Award.
As a teacher, Professor Felbeck developed three graduate-level courses.
His course in failure analysis was transmitted via satellite during the past
three winter terms to the National Technological University and included
students from a number of U.S. and Michigan locations. He received the Pi
Tau Sigma Outstanding Faculty Award and co-authored the widely used
textbook Strength and Fracture of Engineering Solids, now in its second


30




July Meeting, 1996


edition. He is also the author of Introduction to Strengthening Mechanisms
and coeditor of Fracture.
Professor Felbeck's prominence in his field is illustrated by his extensive
consultation with industrial organizations and law firms. He has performed
more than 600 analyses of metallurgical failures and testified in approximately
450 lawsuits. Each one of these involves analysis, experimentation, testing,
and examination in an electron microscope.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scholar by
naming David K. Felbeck professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.
Peter R. Klaver, associate professor of technical communication in the
Department of Humanities, College of Engineering, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1996, after 42 years of service as a teacher and scholar at
the University of Michigan.
Professor Klaver received his B.A. degree from Marietta College in 1952
and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1953 and
1965, respectively. He began his teaching career as a teaching fellow in
English, Department of Engineering English, College of Engineering, in 1954.
He was appointed instructor in 1957 and was promoted to assistant professor
in 1965 and associate professor in 1980.
Since Professor Klaver's intellectual interests were centered on the uses
and misuses of language, both in every day and specialized communication, his
research and teaching were necessarily interdisciplinary. The courses he taught
ranged from freshman composition to technical communication to technical
editing and from major American writers to junior/senior seminars in comedy
and modem rhetoric. His research interests ranged from the interrelationships
between reasoning, language, and the comic to the uses of simulation gaming as
a way to introduce students to the complexity of organizational communication.
Professor Klaver served on several departmental and college committees
and on the University's Board for Student Publications and was active for
many years in the Liberal Studies Division of the American Society of
Engineering Education. He enjoyed immensely his work with students and
colleagues.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Peter R. Klaver
associate professor emeritus of technical communication.
Myra G. Larson, professor of art in the School of Art and Design, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1996, after a productive career as an
artist, designer, and teacher.
Professor Larson received her B.S. degree from Kansas State University in
1952, her M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1960, her certificate
in environmental design from the University of Oslo in 1962, her Ph.D. degree
from the University of Michigan in 1970, and certificates in public art and
liveable cities from the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1979 and 1988.
She worked as a Hallmark Cards designer, teacher, art director, and free lance
designer prior to joining the University of Michigan as a lecturer in 1967. She
was promoted to instructor in 1969, assistant professor in 1971, associate
professor in 1974, and professor in 1982.
In addition to art education, Professor Larson taught "Art and Community
Development," an interdisciplinary exploration and analysis of the aesthetic,
social, and  economic aspects of environmental design  in  community
31




July Meeting, 1996


development, whose enrollment included art, engineering, and law students. A
longtime proponent of public art, Professor Larson was also a pioneer in
collaborative endeavors. In 1978, she organized one of the first invitational
research conferences held at the University involving art and business. The
conference was held in conjunction with an exhibition, "The Artist and the
American Corporation," and hosted in the Slusser Gallery.
A dedicated teacher, Professor Larson had a rapport with students that
yielded very successful results.  Over the years, she invited numerous
distinguished speakers and scholars to lecture on campus and received a grant
from the Center for Research on Learning and Teaching to host an important
symposium featuring world-renowned sculptor Isamu Noguchi. She served on
a number of University-wide committees and co-chaired several doctoral thesis
committees. Professor Larson also lectured nation wide to alumni groups.
The Regents now salute this distinguished artist, designer, and teacher
for her dedicated service by naming Myra G. Larson professor emerita of art.
Leo F. McNamara, professor of English language and literature, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1996.
Professor McNamara received his A.B. degree magna cum laude in 1954
from Harvard University. He joined the faculty at the University of Michigan
as an instructor in 1959. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1962,
associate professor in 1967, and professor in 1991.
As a generalist, Professor McNamara taught nearly all the undergraduate
courses that the English department offered. He was the department's
specialist for Irish literature, having introduced this corpus into the English
department's diversified curriculum. He also regularly taught courses on the
history of Ireland for the Department of History. He was a remarkable teacher
and a longtime honors tutor, advisor, and counselor for the department and
college; he was also the recipient of a University of Michigan Distinguished
Teaching Award.
One of Professor McNamara's most compelling talents as a teacher was
his ability to translate his love of literature into active and public presentation
on the stage. A member of the Actor's Equity Association, he has been a
performer for the Ann Arbor Civic Theatre and has participated in numerous
plays for University Theatre productions.
Professor McNamara has served on several department, college, University,
and SACUA committees including the Alternate Honors Program in English,
LS&A secretary to the faculty, a member of the University Senate Assembly,
and the Medieval and Renaissance Collegium Advisory Board. He has also
been the reviewer of choice for numerous Irish specialist journals, both here
and abroad.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Leo F. McNamara
professor emeritus of English language and literature.
Alfredo Montalvo, associate professor of art in the School of Art and
Design, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996.
Professor Montalvo received his B.F.A. (1970), M.F.A. (1972), and B.Arch.
(1973) degrees from the Rhode Island School of Design. He also attended the
Pratt Institute from 1953-55 and received a certificate from the Brooks
Institute (Motion Picture Department) in 1958. From 1959-68, he pursued a


32




July Meeting, 1996


visual arts career in which he served as producer/director/editor/ animator of
industrial and commercial motion pictures, television documentaries, and
audiovisual productions. He received forty-nine national and international
film festival awards, including seven Council for International Non-Theatrical
Entertainment (CINE) Golden Eagles. From 1970-73, he taught at the Rhode
Island School of Design. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan
in 1973 as assistant professor of art, teaching foundation design, film making,
visualization, drawing, and industrial design. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1977.
Professor Montalvo was an architectural design associate to Lester J.
Millman and Associates, ALA, Architects, Providence, Rhode Island (1970-72);
founder/director, the Alternatives Group, Ann Arbor, Michigan (1975-83);
cofounder, Cooper, Mitchell, Shear, and Montalvo in Ann Arbor (1983-85);
and founder/director, Alfredo Montalvo Design, Ann Arbor (1975-present).
Professor Montalvo has been a very successful teacher. As co-chair of the
industrial design program, he directed several funded undergraduate research
projects in which students received national recognition. He received a
Rackham Research Grant in 1980 for the investigation of "Non-Photographic
Film Animation Techniques." His cinematic work has been widely exhibited
nationally.
Professor Montalvo has served on numerous school and University
committees, including the Senate Assembly, SACUA, the Committee for a
Multicultural University (chair), and the Academic Affairs Advisory Committee.
He is also active in the undergraduate mentoring program, and he frequently
served as a University marshall at commencement exercises.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Alfredo Montalvo associate professor emeritus of art.
Charles D. Moody, professor of education, School of Education,
executive director of South African Initiatives, and vice provost emeritus for
minority affairs, will retire from active faculty status on August 31, 1996,
after 26 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Moody received his B.S. degree from Central State University
in 1954; his M.Ed. degree from Chicago Teachers College (South) in 1961; and
his Ph.D. degree from Northwestern University in 1971. From 1959-70, he
worked in several Illinois school districts as a teacher and administrator, and
from 1968-70, superintendent of schools (Harvey, Illinois). He joined the
University of Michigan in 1970 as director of the federally-funded Program
for Educational Opportunity (PEO) and lecturer in education. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in 1975, and
professor in 1980. In 1987, Professor Moody became vice provost for minority
affairs. He served in this post until 1993, when he became executive director
of South African Initiatives and vice provost emeritus for minority affairs.
Within the School of Education, Professor Moody taught courses in
educational administration, chaired a number of doctoral committees, and
interacted regularly with both undergraduate and graduate students. He
chaired the school's Division of Educational Specialists from 1973-77. He also
directed the Project for Fair Administration of Student Discipline from 1975-80
and the Center for Sex Equity in Schools from 1981-87. Professor Moody has
also served on a number of University-wide committees.


33




July Meeting, 1996


Professor Moody founded the National Alliance of Black School Educators
and has served as its president and as a member of its executive committee.
As director of the Program for Educational Opportunity, he worked hard,
both within and outside the state, to provide assistance to local school district
personnel and professional colleagues. He also wrote regularly for the PEO
publications Title Line and Breakthrough. Over the years, Professor Moody
has also directed and participated in numerous major workshops and
conferences to promote equity in education. His work on issues of high
national priority-school desegregation and multicultural education-is highly
acclaimed, and his articles have appeared in such journals as The School
Administrator and The Journal of Negro Education.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Charles D.
Moody professor emeritus of education.
Bernard Naylor, M.D., professor of pathology, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 1996.
Dr. Naylor attended the University of Manchester in England, where he
received his M.B. and Ch.B. degrees in 1951. He served internships and
residencies in the United Kingdom until 1954. He pursued a residency in
pathology at the University of Michigan from 1954-56, while simultaneously
pursing his M.Sc. degree in pathology from the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, which he completed in 1956. After completion of his
residency training, Dr. Naylor served a three-month locum tenens as assistant
pathologist at the Croydon Hospitals, London, England. Dr. Naylor joined the
faculty in 1957 as an instructor in pathology. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1959, associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1968. From
November 1961 to November 1962, he served as acting director of the
Papanicolaou Cancer Research Institute in Miami, Florida.
Dr. Naylor was the department's specialist in the field of cytopathology.
Widely recognized as an outstanding teacher, he received the Elizabeth
Crosby Award for outstanding teaching of medical students in a basic medical
science in 1981 and commendations for excellence in teaching from the
Medical School classes of 1988, 1989, and 1990. He received a Certification of
Merit from the International Academy of Cytology in 1973 and a Certificate of
Merit from the American Society of Cytology in recognition of outstanding
services as president of the society in November 1985. He also received the
1990 Papanicolaou Award from the American Society of Cytology.
Dr. Naylor will continue to play an active role in the department's
educational programs, especially in the areas of medical student and resident
teaching. He will be actively involved in updating medical student teaching
materials and will participate in the second-year medical student teaching
laboratories.
The Regents salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Bernard Naylor professor emeritus of pathology.
Memorials. Provost Machen reported that Sylvester Berki, professor of
health management and policy in the School of Public Health, had died on
July 10, 1996.
Degrees. Provost Machen submitted final degree lists for the June 1996
Medical School commencement and May 1996 commencements at other


34




July Meeting, 1996


schools, colleges, and divisions. He also submitted the doctoral degree list for
August 1996 and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees. Noting that there were several recommendations
before the Board for the Committee on Honorary Degrees, Regent Baker
commented that he had, in the past, submitted a number of nominations to
the honorary degree committee for consideration as honorary degree recipients,
and in most cases his suggestions were rejected. Regent Baker pointed out that
most of his nominations have been of well-known people with conservative
views, and he believes there is a bias against the conservative view on the
honorary degree committee.
Regent Newman observed that she had raised the same issue when the
latest list of honorary degree recipients had been presented for approval, and
had asked to see a list of all past degree recipients. She echoed Regent
Baker's remarks and asked that other names be submitted in the future.
Regent McGowan noted that she had reviewed the same list of previous
degree recipients, and that in her view, it was a remarkably diverse list in
every sense of the word. She questioned whether the committee had a mandate
to reflect political views and commented that she believed the committee had
done a remarkable job over time in assuring that the University had honored
scholars who may or may not have had a connection to the University in the
past, as well as public personalities who are important either to the University,
the state, the country, or the world. She does not agree that the concerns
expressed are reflected by the committee's choices.
Regent Power observed that the granting of honorary degrees should be in
recognition of "distinguished scholarly or public service or remarkable career
achievements in which the terms 'conservative' or 'liberal' are meaningless."
He said he was "saddened that this polarity has entered into the discussion at
this table."
Regent Baker responded that the term "conservative" is a very broad
term and does not connote political views.
Regent Deitch observed that all degrees are granted by the Regents.
The practice of having distinguished members of the faculty reviewing
candidates for academic honorary degrees has worked wonderfully, and he
has complete confidence in it. Vice President Harrison pointed out that in
addition to faculty members, the committee also includes students, alumni,
and executive officers.
Chancellor Nelms noted that Professor Frank Richardson would be
retiring. He is the last of the original faculty members who helped to
established the Flint campus.
Consent agenda approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Long Term Portfolio Asset Allocation
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Norman Herbert,
university treasurer, to explain the request to amend the asset allocation
35




July Meeting, 1996


policy for the Long Term Portfolio (LTP) and to approve commodities as an
investment for the LTP.
Mr. Herbert reported that since the establishment of the board's current
asset allocation and investment management policies, the staff has worked to
refine that program by globalizing the portfolio and by investing in such
alternative areas as real estate, venture capital, oil and gas, reorganization
investments, and emerging markets debt. Strategies have included the use
of diversification as an important risk control measure, gradually increasing
the allocation to equities as the equity portfolio became more diversified; and
emphasizing the undervalued areas of the market and being prudent about
expanding investment opportunities in those asset classes that may be
expensive at a particular point in time.
The proposal before the Board is to change the asset allocation policy for
the LTP from its target ratio of 75/25 (equities to fixed income investments) to
80/20, with an allowable range of 85/15 to 65/35; that the target for alternative
assets be raised from 25 percent to 30 percent; and that commodities be
approved as an investment. Mr. Herbert described commodities as tangible
assets such as agricultural products, oil and gas, and industrial and precious
metals. He noted that they are negatively correlated with stocks and bonds
and would thus provide significant diversification to the portfolio. They have
also historically provided high returns during periods of high inflation, thus
offering inflation protection. Finally, commodities have historically performed
well in phases of the economic environment such as the one that we are
entering.
Thus, commodities are viewed as a defensive measure against inflation
and against a possible down period in financial assets, while also providing
interesting return opportunities over the near term. He noted that the
proposal is for an investment in a commodity index, as opposed to a direct
investment in any of the specific commodities. The University plans to take
a long position in futures contracts on the Goldman Sachs Commodities Index,
which would give exposure to the performance of an array of commodities.
Mr. Herbert explained that the decision has not been made as to
whether to manage it internally or use an outside manager. He requested
that the recommendation in the Regents Communication be amended to
state that if the decision is made to manage the investment externally, the
manager that would be employed would be First Quadrant.
Regent Newman moved that: 1) the asset allocation policy for the Long
Term Portfolio be amended, setting the target ratio for equities to fixed
income investments at 80/20 within a range of 85/15 to 65/35; 2) the
alternative asset target for the Long Term Portfolio be raised from 25
percent to 30 percent; 3) that commodities be approved as an investment for
the Long Term Portfolio; and 4) that First Quadrant be used as an outside
manager, if the decision is made to use an outside manager rather than
manage the investment internally. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was
approved unanimously.


36




July Meeting, 1996


Alternative Asset Investments
Mr. Herbert reviewed this proposed investment in Intrepid Energy
North Sea Ltd., noting that it provides an important opportunity to diversify
geographically in the energy category. Regent Deitch moved that $10 million
of the Long Term Portfolio be committed to Intrepid Energy North Sea Ltd.,
pending favorable review of the documents for their legal acceptability by the
general counsel. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Commitment of $14 million of the Long Term Portfolio to Three
Alternative Asset Investments
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents about three
follow-on investments. Two were in new funds sponsored by previously
approved partnerships, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers VIII, L.P. ($5
million), and Endowment Venture Partners III, L.P. (up to $5 million). The
third was an increase in a previous commitment, Galileo, L.P. ($4 million).
Sale of $15,700,000 Regents of The University of Michigan
Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 1996A
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that Housing
Revenue Bonds, Series 1996A, had been purchased by the low bidder, a
syndicate led by Smith Barney, Inc., at a true interest cost of 5.6%.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: UM-Dearborn Faculty
Office Building renovation and HV improvements and air conditioning
installation in the fourth floor of the Rackham Building.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting is scheduled for September 19-20, 1996. Regents' expenses accounted
for during the month of June 1996 totaled $1,672.62.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


37




SPECIAL MEETING, AUGUST 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Wednesday, August 28, 1996
The Regents met at 2:10 p.m. in the Gerald R. Ford Library. Present
were Interim President Neal and Regents Baker, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Also present were Executive Vice President
Womack, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, and Neidhart,
and Secretary Palmer. Regent Deitch joined the meeting at 2:20 p.m.
Executive Session Motion
Regent McFee offered the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(a), 8(e), and 8(h) of the Open Meetings
Act, as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents
meet in closed session on August 28, 1996, in the Gerald R. Ford
Library, for the following purposes:
* performing periodic personnel evaluations of individuals
who have requested confidentiality [Sec. 8(a)];
* consulting with the Board's attorney regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending
litigation [Sec. 8(e)]; and
* considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by state or federal statute [Section 8(h)]. Such
exempt material consists of a written opinion from the
Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously
by those present. The meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


39




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 19, 1996
The Regents met at 2:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Regents
Baker, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Power, as well as Provost
Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, and Neidhardt and Secretary
Palmer.  Interim  President Neal, Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor Renick,
Executive Vice President Womack, Vice President Hartford, and Vice President
Kinnear were absent. Regents Deitch and Varner joined the meeting shortly
after it started.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Baker called on Regent McFee, who read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on September 19, 1996, for the purpose of considering
material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of
written opinions from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Friday, September 20, 1996
The Regents met at 9:55 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Interim President Neal and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Also present were Executive Vice
President Womack, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Kinnear, and
Neidhart, and Secretary Palmer. Vice Chancellor Robert Behrens was
present in place of Chancellor Renick until his arrival shortly after the start
of the meeting, and Provost Robert Desmond attended in the stead of
Chancellor Nelms, who was absent. Vice President Hartford was also absent.
President's Report
Interim President Neal called the meeting to order and gave a
presentation summarizing data on the new undergraduate and graduate
student populations and new faculty and deans. He also updated the Board
on major gifts that had been received since he had assumed the role of interim
president in July and reported on his goals for the interim presidency. These
include reinforcing our academic community through better communication,
through integration of research and education (Undergraduate Research
Initiative), and through deliberation and reflection on our values. To further


41




September Meeting, 1996


the communication initiative, Interim President Neal announced that he had
established the University of Michigan Advisory Panel (UMAP) and a publication, "In the Interim," as a vehicle for communication with the faculty and
staff.
Interim President Neal said that the themes for the interim period will
be to ensure a sense of campus continuity; to preserve recent advances; to
capture new opportunities that may be presented; to act on key, timesensitive, matters; to lay the groundwork for the new administration; and to
assist the Regents with the installation of the new president.
He also reported on meetings he had had over the summer with
presidents of other state universities, the governor, former University of
Michigan presidents, and others.
Provost's Report
Provost Machen reported that the Child Care Task Force has been
established and is being chaired by Dean Ada Sue Hinshaw of the School of
Nursing. The Campus Safety Task Force, chaired by Dean Paul Boylan, was
also actively working. Both task forces are expected to report to the Regents
during this academic year.
Executive Compensation
Interim President Neal observed that the September 19 Ann Arbor News
had carried an article about the issue of executive compensation at the
University of Michigan. He called on Regent Baker, who made the following
statement:
The Regents have reacted with concern to the various newspaper
articles concerning executive officer compensation agreements made
by President Duderstadt before he left office. The Regents, working
with Interim President Neal and others, will examine these circumstances as well as the University's overall policy with regard to
executive officer compensation.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1995-96
Executive Vice President Womack reported that the independent
auditors had issued a clean opinion of the University's financial position as of
June 30, 1996, with no qualifications. The separately-bound audited financial
statements are included with the agenda materials.
Year-End Financial Information for 1995-96
Executive Vice President Womack called on Associate Vice President
Randy Harris, who gave a slide presentation on the year-end financial
information for 1995-96 compared with 1986-87. Mr. Harris noted that the
Current Funds consist of the Educational and General funds (E&G) (General,
Designated, and Expendable Restricted Funds), and the Auxiliary Activities
funds.


42




September Meeting, 1996


The proportion of current funds educational and general revenues derived
from state appropriations went from 34 percent in 1986-87 to 24 percent in
1995-96, while the proportion derived from student fees increased from 26
percent to 32 percent. Total educational and general revenues during that
period increased from $729 million to $1.399 billion.
The compound growth rate adjusted for inflation (real growth rate) for
student fees for the 10 year period was 6.2 percent, compared with a 0.3
percent decrease for state appropriations. In 1976, student fees made up 34
percent of the combined revenues from student fees and state appropriations;
in 1996, student fees made up 57 percent of the total, illustrating the
continuing decline in state appropriations.
Regent Newman observed that the point is being made that students are
paying more because the government is paying less, without a discussion of
what they are paying for and why expenses are going up.
Overall Auxiliary Activities revenues totaled $1.044 billion in 1995-96,
compared to $519.1 million in 1986-87, for a 4.2 percent adjusted compound
growth rate. The Hospital, medical, and dental portions of those revenues
increased from $436 million in 1986-87 to $901 million in 1995-96 for an
adjusted compound growth rate of 4.5 percent, although those revenues
showed a 1.1 percent decrease from 1994-95.
Expenditures and transfers for the Educational and General portion of
the Current Funds totaled $718 million in 1986-87 and $1.383 billion in
1995-96, for a compound growth rate of 7.6 percent. Salaries and wages
decreased from 49 percent of this category in 1986-87 to 45 percent in
1994-95, while staff benefits increased from 12 percent to 13 percent and
scholarships and fellowships increased from 7 percent to 10 percent. Total
compensation (salaries and wages plus staff benefits) experienced an adjusted
10-year compound growth rate of 3.2 percent, increasing from $435 million to
$800 million. In 1987, staff benefits comprised about 19.1 percent of total
compensation, while in 1995-96, this proportion had increased to 22.6
percent. During this period, scholarships and fellowships grew by 8.6 percent,
from $52,998 million to $134,934 million. Equipment and plant expenditures
have decreased from 10 percent to 8 percent of the total, while supplies
expenditures have remained relatively constant, currently at 24 percent of
the total.
Total Auxiliary Activities expenditures grew from $428 million to $1.061
billion. The 1995-96 figure represents a 5.5 percent decrease from 1994-95,
most of which can be attributed to the hospital and medical area. This decrease
can be largely attributed to transfers from the Hospitals to the category of funds
functioning as endowment.
The investment in plant grew from $1.608 billion in 1986-87 to $3.384
billion in 1995-96. The endowment and other invested funds have grown
from $295 million to $1.7 billion over the same period, which is a compound
growth rate of 21.2 percent.
Total expenditures and transfers were $1.145 billion in 1986-87, compared
with $2.444 billion in 1995-96, for a total compound growth rate of 8.8 percent.


43




September Meeting, 1996


Following the conclusion of the budget report, Regent Newman moved
adoption of the annual financial statements for 1995-96. Regent Varner
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. Regent Baker observed
that the University's expenditures are of great benefit to the citizens of Ann
Arbor and Washtenaw County.
Statement Regarding the Medical Center
Interim President Neal made the following comments about the Medical
Center:
We have been working vigorously over the past several months with
the Regents and the executive officers to develop a forward-looking
governance and administrative structure for the University of
Michigan Medical Center. In recent weeks, the Regents and executive
officers have visited four representative academic health centers:
Oregon, Indianapolis, Emory, and the University of Florida. These
trips, together with advice from people within the University and from
the Regents' special counsel, have been most helpful and informative.
It has been agreed that the best solution for the University of
Michigan will be to create an executive vice president for medical
affairs, who would report to the president and to whom both the dean
of the Medical School and the executive director of the University
Hospital/Health System would report.
We expect to have more details about this to report at the October
Regents' Meeting, but the Regents felt that they were sufficiently far
along in their thinking to announce this particular decision.
Department of Athletics Budget for 1996-97
Interim President Neal called on Dr. M. Joseph Roberson, director of
athletics, to present the Department of Athletics budget for 1996-97, as had
been requested by the Regents at the July 1996 meeting. Dr. Roberson
distributed a separately-bound booklet containing reproductions of the slides
used in his presentation.
He reported that the department is in the process of developing a
five-year strategic plan that will be presented to the Regents when it is in
final form. He noted that there are currently 11 men's sports and 12 women's
sports, and the department expects to have achieved perfect gender equity
this year.
The official 1995 NCAA graduation rate of 71 percent compares very
favorably with other universities. He noted that the department's budget
equals about $32 million, and that it is currently undergoing the process of
NCAA certification. He pointed out that the program achieved a national
championship in hockey in 1996 and in men's swimming in 1995; and in
1995-96 had 5 conference championships. The department has had notably
competitive and successful teams in recent years in women's gymnastics,
swimming, softball, and other women's sports.


44




September Meeting, 1996


Dr. Roberson displayed a pie chart illustrating the sources of the
department's current funds revenues of $31.9 million. Football admissions
account for 39 percent, licensing royalties 14 percent, TV/radio revenue 10
percent, post-season revenues 8 percent, other sports admissions 7 percent, and
the remainder is derived from annual giving, facilities revenue, concessions,
and other income. The athletics department as a percentage of the University
budget has remained consistently at about 2 percent for the past several
years.
As for expenditures, in 1994-95 $6.5 million was spent on grant-in-aid
and $9.17 million for total intra-University transactions. He noted that this
type of expenditure for the University of Michigan's athletic department is
substantially higher than at any other Big Ten institution because many of
these institutions receive direct subsidies, either from the state or from the
university, often in the form of tuition waivers for the difference between
resident and nonresident tuition. The University of Michigan athletic
department receives no subsidies either from the University or the state.
Dr. Roberson explained how the process of revenue sharing works in the
Big Ten, and displayed a chart illustrating the amount of revenue each
institution gains or looses in gate receipt revenue each year. The University
of Michigan will experience a net loss due to revenue sharing for the of
$848,702 in 1995-96, compared with a net gain for Northwestern University
of $926,926. He also noted that television and post-season revenues in the
Big Ten conference are also pooled and are independent of how many times a
particular team appears on television, so that the University of Michigan's
share is the same as that for any other Big Ten school.
Dr. Roberson pointed out that the University generates more royalty
income than any other institution, but that because royalty revenues
fluctuate from year to year, the department cannot rely on it as a steady
source of income. Since 1992, royalty revenue has fluctuated from about 10
percent to almost 20 percent of the department's total operating funds.
Football season ticket revenues currently make up about 40 percent of
total operating funds revenues. Dr. Roberson noted that there is a growing
trend for institutions to tie the availability and location of season football
tickets to donations, although the University of Michigan has no plans to do
that.
In the area of expenditures, 33 percent goes toward salaries and fringe
benefits, 21 percent for grant-in-aid costs, 19 percent for sports programs, 10
percent each for administrative expenses and facilities expenses, 4 percent
for capital expenditures, and 3 percent for debt service.
Development fundraising efforts resulted in total gifts ranging from
$3,862,000 in 1991-92 to $5 million in 1995-96 and have been targeted for such
facilities as the golf course, Yost Field House renovations, and construction
of the new tennis facility. He noted that future facility needs include
renovations to the Michigan Stadium, Crisler Arena, Canham Natatorium,
and Yost Ice Arena, as well as a softball locker room, crew facilities, and a


45




September Meeting, 1996


new competition/practice facility. The department is also continuing with its
certification efforts and continuing to receive feedback on its strategic plan.
Regent McFee noted that several members of the Michigan men's swim
team had participated in the 1996 Summer Olympics. Regent Power observed
that in light of the pressures brought on by the notion of sports as entertainment, the University of Michigan not only has a tradition of competitive
success, but it is noted for following the rules. He thanked Dr. Roberson for
the presentation, noting that it had been very helpful.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the meeting of
July 18-19, 1996.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted the following
reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor
Relations. Vice President Neidhardt submitted Projects Established and
Current Research and Sponsored Projects. He noted that it would be helpful
to receive input from the Regents as to what type of information they would
like to receive regarding the University's research activities. He also distributed
a poster describing an upcoming research responsibility program sponsored
jointly by his office and the graduate school.
The Regents received the Faculty Governance Update.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of gifts
received for June, July, and August, 1996, and the summary for the fiscal
year 1995-96, and reviewed the current status of the capital campaign.
Aastrom Biosciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in the Medical School..................................... $  5,000
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Donald E. Adams, Drayton Plains
1,523 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for the E. and Elizabeth S. Adams Donor Pooled Income Fund,
for ultimate benefit of the Bentley Historical Library and the Law School... 101,777
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 25,000
Emma Alexander Estate
for the John Alexander Distinguished Professorship in the Medical School
and for the Emma Alexander Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts...................................          60,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.....................................  29,023
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship and the Minority Engineering
Program in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts..... 47,619
Association Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud, Zug, Switzerland
for the Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering... 101,509
Lawrence L. Bullen, Jackson
150 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund... 6,488
Irene Bychnsky Bendler Estate
for the Evelyn O. Bychinsky Award in Mathematics in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the Irene Bychinsky Bendler Award
in Design in the School of Art and Design, and for the A. Elaine Bychinsky
Award in Music and the Irene Bychinsky Bendler Awards in Theatre and
Music in  the School of Music..........................................  431,667


46




September Meeting, 1996


Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York
for research  in the Medical School......................................  5,250
Carter-Wallace, Inc., Cranbury, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  19,777
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the School of Social Work................................ 37,500
William C. Cassebaum, Mount Bethel, Pennsylvania
for the Frederick Leckie Law Scholarship and Loan Fund in the Law
School, and for the Museum   of Art......................................  10,200
Centocor, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School.................... 5,000
Chemtrak, Sunnyvale, California
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  31,406
Elizabeth F. Cheney Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
David N. Cheris, Cazenovia. New York
for the William Martel Professorship in Radiology in the Medical School....... 5,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowship and other support in the College of
Engineering,and for employee matching gifts....................... 21,550
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  45,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the S.M. Wu Symposium and the S.M. Wu Manufacturing Center in
the College of Engineering........................................... 325,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the Schools of Engineering and Management, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn...............................  19,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................... 41,740
Commonwealth Fund, NewYork, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  45,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Program, for the Museum of Art, and for
the University Musical Society.........................................  10,550
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for employee matching gifts............................................. 6,630
Cooley High School Compact Council, Detroit
for the Detroit Compact Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...................                                    5,000
Trudy Harrison Crandall, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...................................... 20,000
Dewey B. Crawford, Chicago, Illinois
550 shares of Andrew Corporation common stock
for the Law Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School................. 59,400
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute............................                             7,500
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Deloitte & Touche, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute............................................................  15,000
Deloitte & Touche, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............ 10,800
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for employee matching  gifts............................................  38,559
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research  in  the School of Dentistry...................................  16,832
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Diabetes Discover Group, Novo Alle, Bagsvaerd, Denmark
for biological chemistry support in the Medical School.....................  15,000


47




September Meeting, 1996


Digital Equipment Corporation, Novi
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute......................................................  7,500
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
for the Robert B. Dunlap Endowment in the Medical School, in memory
of Robert B. Dunlap..................................................  20,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 115,000
Patricia Earhart, Aspen, Colorado
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, in memory of Lenore Woods Earhart......................... 5,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund and other support in the Medical School.... 6,000
Beulah R. Elving, Ann Arbor
for the Elvmg Lecture Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the   A rts..............................................................  5,000
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 25,000
Frederick A. Erb, BloomfieldHills
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools
of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment...... 1,011,316
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts...........................................  66,285
Max M. Fisher Jewish Community Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Holocaust Fund in the Mardigian Library, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn....................................................  6,481
FMC Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.................................... 8,860
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research, instructional support and the S.M. Wu Symposium in the
College  of Engineering...............................................  230,300
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the University Musical Society...................................... 30,000
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for the Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in the Medical School................ 30,000
Michael R. Gallagher, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
100 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School............................................,200
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship.......................... 6,053
GE Financial Services Operation, Schenectady, New York
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 5,000
Genentech, Inc South San Francisco, California
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School................... 25,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching   gifts............................................  23,486
General Mills, Inc., Minneapois, Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 23,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship..................................  6,000
Genessee Area Focus Council, Inc., Flint
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute... 10,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Artur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in Piano and the Jessye
Norman Graduate Scholarship in Voice in the School of Music.............. 85,890
Ralph J. Gerson, Auburn Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
Richard C. Gerstenberg, Bloomfield Hills
210 shares of Marsh and McLennan Company common stock
for the Richard C. Gerstenberg Endowed Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  20,081


48




September Meeting, 1996


Geoffrey L. Gifford, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Law  School.....................................   25,000
Richard Goldstein, Syosset, New York
for ifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan................. 10,000
Grace F. Goodchild Trust
for support in the School of Nursing....................................  20,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute,and for employee matching gifts.................................  7,650
Grand Rapids Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the Medical School........... 10,440
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education, the Institute for Social Research
and the Center for Human Growth and Behavior......................... 246,944
Carleton H. Griffin, Ann Arbor
85 shares of Reuters Holdings PLC ADR common stock and a cash gift
for the Teaching Excellence Fund in the School of Business Administration,
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and for the University Musical Society............................... 6,108
Guidant Corporation-Cardiology Pacemakers, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support in  the Medica  School.......................................  10,000
Sheila FordHamp, Dearborn
1,255 shares of Inhale Therapeutic Systems common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 22,276
Handelshogskolan, Stockholm, Sweden
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business
Administration.......................................................  98,859
Margaret Hargrove, Wellesley, Massachusetts
96 shares of Raytheon Company common stock
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 5,028
Hayes Wheels International, Inc., Romulus
for the research in the College of Engineering............................ 50,000
Judith M. Heekin Trust
for the University  Musical Society......................................  10,000
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 14,980
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 75,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute...........................................................  7,500
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the 1994 Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College
of Engineering........................................................ 5,000
HOCO, Ltd., Niagara Falls, Canada
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  67,673
Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City
for the Dejong Symposium in the Medical School.......................... 20,000
Hoffman-La Roche, Nutley, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School..................... 76,000
Robert L. Hooker, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business
A dm inistration........................................................  5,000
Marjorie F. Hospidor Estate
for the Mary Dennis Folmer Faculty Awards in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  50,000
Howmedica, Inc., Rutherford, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Dave Hunting, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the Mary I. and David D. Hunting Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  40,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Illinois School Trans portation Association, Crestwood, Illinois
for research in the Transportation Research Institute....................... 5,000
Integrated Therapeutics, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,500


49




September Meeting, 1996


Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 25,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering............................... 30,000
International Union of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Ann Arbor
for the Vincent Massey Symposium in the MedicaSchool................... 5,000
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute...................7,500
Janssen, Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School..................                52,305
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Social Work.................................  10,000
Jobbers Warehouse Service, Inc., Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 8,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, and in the
Institute  for Social Research..........................................  641,777
Beatrice L. Johnston Trust
for the Dr. Franklin D. Johnston and Professor Clarence T. Johnston
Fellowship in the College of Engineering................................537227
Rose Marie Jun, New York, New York
50 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Rose Marie Jun Scholarship in the School of Music...................   5,750
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 46,906
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Juan Tienda Scholarship in the Law School....................... 10,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
600 shares of Pacific Telesis Group common stock
for scholarships and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of
Athletics, and for the Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship
in  the  Law   School....................................................   20,325
Joseph P. Keithley, Cleveland, Ohio
290 shares of Keithley Instruments, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,003
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 34,531
John H. Kellogg Estate
for the John H. Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School............... 15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Public Health and the Center for the
Education of Women.......................................... 70,550
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Romulus
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute..........................................................  15,000
K-I Chemical Research Institute Company, Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan
for research in the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shimizu-Shi, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School.....................................   149,379
Dimitri Kosacheff, New Boston
802 shares of MidAmerican Energy Company and
400 shares of Texas Utilities common stocks
for the Kosacheff Scholarship..........................................  30,259
John Kutsche Estate
36,500 U.S. Savings Bonds
for the Kutsche Memorial Professorship in the Medical School............. 223,990
Olive L. Lagden Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Frank A. Lamberson, Cashiers, North Carolina
for the Frank A. Lamberson Distinguished Lectureship in
Otorhinolaryngology in the Medica School............................... 10,000
Chu Yong Lee, Seoul, Korea
for Korean Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the   A rts.............................................................  19,985


50




September Meeting, 1996


Lemmon Company, Kulpsville, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
Liebel-Flarsheim Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research & Education Fund in
the Medical School....................................................  20,000
Michael J. Lobsinger, Bloomfield Hills
502 shares of Compuware Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,268
Delma Loyer Trust
for the Archil and Delma Loyer Memorial Fund in the Medical School....... 186,298
LTV Steel Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Public Policy................................ 5,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
Sally L. Lusk, Ypsilanti
911 shares of Sand Technologies Systems common stock
for the Clayton and Lucille Clark Faculty Research Fund in the School
of Nursing.......................................... 21,409
Betty MacArthur Trust
for the W. Owen Boren Fund in the Medical School....................... 397,072
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda Maryland
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  50,000
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School................. 29,384
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
1,275 shares of Activision common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Center for
the Education of Women                                               16,734
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business
Administration............................................... 10,000
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  5,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for support in the School of Social Work................................. 50,000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
285 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for the  University  Musical Society.......................................  9,619
McKinsey & Company, Inc., New York, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute............................................... 7,500
Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
For the Rogers McVaugh Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.............................................................  10,000
John R. McWilliams Ann Arbor
for the Beth McWilliams Scholarship in the School of Information............ 5,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
16,000 shares of Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc., common stock
for the ophthalmology research in the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center............ 665,000
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
Robert E. Meredith, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  7,840
Michigan Partnership to Prevent Gun Violence, Haslett
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 21,004
Midwest Eye-Banks and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Vincent J. and Janet L. Miller Charitable Remainder Trust
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................... 102,685
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute, and for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical
School....................                                          9,500


51




September Meeting, 1996


Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood Colorado
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  37,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint............................ 9,500
George R. Mrkonic, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................... 123,365
National Institute for Burn Medicine, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 25,000
National Neurofibromatosis Foundation, Utica
for research in the Medical School...................................... 11,250
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
National Water Research Institute, Costa Mesa, California
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., Endowment in the College of Engineering....... 50,000
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Knoxville, Tennessee
for research in the Transportation Research Institute....................... 5,000
Robert D. Neary, Cleveland, Ohio
2,700 shares of Premier Industrial Corporation common stock
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Fund in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 86,738
Leonard M. Newman, Grand Rapids
for the Leonard and Eileen Newman Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  Arts......................................................  5,000
John F. and Ann L. Nickoll CDF of the
Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law  School..........................................  12,000
Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Company, Ltd., Kawanishi, Japan
for research in the Medical School......................................   40,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................. 5,000
Noriam Corporation, Cupertino, California
for the OAS Biomechanic Trauma and Sports Medicine Fund in the
Medical School.........                                              7,500
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in theTransportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Ann Arbor
for research in  the Medical School.......................................  5,204
Richard W. Odgers, Mill Valley California
for support of the  Law  chool...........................................   5000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for the Moses and Sophia Gomberg Fellowship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for support of the Law School.......... 5,000
O'Neal Construction, Inc., Ann Arbor
for Nichols Arboretum in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for the University Musical Society........................ 5,200
William P. O'Neill, Washington, DC
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Oracle Corporation, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute......................................... 7,500
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for the Abram Sage Lectureship Fund and other support in the Medical
School.............................................  8,200
Osteonics, Allendale, New Jersey
for the OAS Biomechanic Trauma and Sports Medicine Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  5,000
Otis Elevator, Farmington, Connecticut
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund..............  5,400
Paideia Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................  28,960
Martha Hecht Pascal, Evanston, Illinois
for the History Department in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.............................................  5,000
Brian P. Patchen, Miami, Florida
for the Brian P. Patchen Fund and other support in the Law School......... 6,000


52




September Meeting, 1996


Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for graduate student support in English language and literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000
Pentax, Orangeburg, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
George M. Perrin, Dallas, Texas
for the John Stephenson Perrin Professorship and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 240,500
Peterson American Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute...........................................................  5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......... 129,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research and other support in the Medical School and the Colleges of
Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 106,675
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for research and the Resident Writing Award in the Medical School.......... 12,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation Research Professorship in
Biostatistics in the School of Public Health; for support in the Medical
School; and for the Pharmacia & Upjohn CEMP Interdisciplinary Faculty
Research Fund, the Pharmacia & Upjohn CEMP Graduate Fellowship
Endowment and the Associates Program in the School of Business
A dm inistration......................................................  307,500
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
James G. Phillipp, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the  Medical School.......................................  5,000
Donna R. Popa, Fenton
137 shares of Banc One Corporation common stock
for the Alumni Association.................................5,069
Prince Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute.........................................................  7,500
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  254,150
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Dentistry, and for the Michigan Leadershape
Institute  in the College of Engineering.................................  10,750
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cninnnati, Ohio
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Dentistry, and
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts; and for
Career Planning and Placement support, and unrestricted support of the
University  of M ichigan................................................  92,600
William Putich, Brecksville, Ohio
2,500 shares of Bema Gold Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and other support in the Department of
A thletics............................................................  11,094
Steven Radom, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
Bernard & Audre Rapoport Foundation, Waco, Texas
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for automotive transportation research and human factors research in the
Transportation  Research  Institute......................................  20,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Foundation Award in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  5,170
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmacy, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,450
William B. Richards Findlay, Ohio
100 shares of Compaq Computer Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in the
College  of Engineering................................................ 5,000


53




September Meeting, 1996


Richards, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee
for the OAS Biomechanic Trauma and Sports Medicine Fund in the
M edical  School........................................................  7,500
Thomas R. Ricketts, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School....................... 10,000
Rockwell International, Automotive Operations Division, Troy
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Rockwell International Corporation, Seal Beach, California
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Richard D. Rohr, Detroit
100 shares of SunAmerica, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,688
Michael Rudd, Ann Arbor
for the Save-A-Heart Campaign in the Medical School..................... 15,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health and the Institute for Social
R esearch............................................................  17,240
Dorothy Maitland Sanders Estate
200 shares of General Electric Company and
100 shares of Merck & Company common stocks
for gifts pending designation...........................................  22,919
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  61,500
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School......................................  35,753
Doris Mae Schlact Estate
for the Carl E. and Doris M. Schlact Scholarship......................... 174,730
Katherine Collier Schotten, Ann Arbor
for the scholarships in the School of Music................................ 5,500
Shapack, McCullough & Kanter, P.C., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
748 shares of Chittenden Corporation common stock
for gifts pending designation........................................... 20,056
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
52,658 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Donald R. Shepherd Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics................... 2,491,361
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School...................... 6,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, and the Institute for Social
Research.............                                              151,439
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Peter O. Sterner, Ann Arbor
for the Peter O. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts........................................  5,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 14,644
Stryker Corporation, Kalamzaoo
for the OAS Biomechanic Trauma and Sports Medicine Fund in the
M edical School................................                     7,500
Supreme Council of the 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts;
for the Scottish Rites Funds in the Medical School.......................... 8,625
Edward Surovell Company Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, and for WUOM/WVGR................... 6,418
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........... 13,762
Taisho Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Taisho Excellence in Research Program in the Medical School........ 39,000
Temple Israel, West Bloomfield
for the Shapiro Endowment in the Medical School................... 10,000
Tenneco Automotive, A Tenneco Company, Greenwich, Connecticut
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute.............................................................  7,500
Thomas Built Buses, Inc., High Point, North Carolina
for research in the Transportation Research Institute....................... 5,000
54




September Meeting, 1996


R. J. Tower Corporation, Greenville
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute........................................... 5,000
James M. Trapp, Winnetka, Illinois
100 shares of Reuters Holdings PLC ADR common stock
for support in  the  Law  School...........................................  7,006
Trenton Firefighters Local 2701, Trenton
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund and the Burn Development
Research and Education Fund in the Medical School....................... 19,300
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  7,840
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 15,000
Uarco, Inc., Barringon, Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
United Technologies Automotive, Dearborn
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.............................................  6,970
University of Colorado Foundation, Inc., Boulder, Colorado
for research in the School of Education..................................  88,503
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 8,221
UroCor, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research & Education Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  22,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts.............................................  7,793
Joji Utsunomiya, Nishinomiya, Japan
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School........................ 5,000
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for researchin the School of Public Health................................ 5,000
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute...........................................................  7,000
Vical, San Diego, California
for the Vical Gift Fund in the Medical School............................ 100,000
Daniel W. Vittum, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School.................... 7,400
John J. Voorhees, Ann Arbor
for the MomentUM Campaign Fund in the Medical School.................. 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Medical School,
for the Davenpost Memorial Fund in the School of Public Health,
for the Cayman Chemical Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy;
and  for the  M useum   of Art............................................  301,800
W. Gerald Warren, Grosse Pointe Shores
For support of the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts........................................             10,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
For support in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine, Music and Nursing........ 17,414
Waycor Development Company, Detroit
for the African Business Development Corp Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  24,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment...........................................  17,500
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall M. Weinberg Endowment for Philosophy in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  31,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, irginia
for research in the College of Engineering.......................... 172,477
Janette F. Williams, Ann Arbor
498 shares of Coca Cola Company common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Pediatric Hematology Research Fund in the
Medical School..................................................... 24,495


55




September Meeting, 1996


Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Policy...............................  150,000
Elizabeth F. Wood Estate
for the Walter F. Wood Endowed Scholarship in the School of Dentistry...... 15,346
Woodbridge Group, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute.............................................................  7,000
Kunio Yagi, Gifu, Japan
for the Vincent Massey Symposium in the Medical School................... 8,850
Tomoji Yanagita, Kawasaki, Japan
for the Maurice H. Seevers Memorial Fund in the Medical School............ 40,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School........................... 50,000
Bruce Zenkel, White Plains, New York
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics..... 5,000
Albert-Ludwigs-Universitaet, Freiburg, Germany
for biologic and materials science research in the School of Dentistry........ $ 30,000
Rick Allen, Roslyn, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Allied Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  15,525
Allied Signal, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for support in the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the
University  of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................  10,000
George E. Amendt, Ann Arbor
900 shares of Glaxo Wellcome plc ADR common stock
for support in  the  School of Art.........................................  24,750
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School....................... 37,500
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,350
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  41,794
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.....................................  14,850
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  35,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 20,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship, the Office of Career
Development and other support in the School of Business Administration.... 19,000
Andersen Consulting LLP, Detroit
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering........ 10,000
AT&T Corporate  uality Office, Basking Ridge, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration............................................  15,000
Dorothy Gondos Beers, Fairfax, Virginia
247 shares of Allied Capital Commercial common stock
for the Victor Gondos, Jr., Archives Fund in the College of Architecture
and  Urban  Planning..................................................  5,002
Carlos R. Bell, Williamsburg, Virginia
for the Carlos R. and Gloria W. Bell Scholarship in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 200,000
Peter M. Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
for the London School of Economics Student Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
214 shares of Coca Cola and
116 shares of Exxon Corporation common stocks
for the Quantitative Measurement Fund in the College of Engineering
and for research in the Medical School...................................  20,836
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for employee m atching  gifts.............................................  9,513
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School........................................  5,000
Eric V. and Linda Brown, Jr., Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School................. 6,000


56




September Meeting, 1996


Robert W. Browne, Ada
1,403 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School
of  D entistry.........................................................  96,895
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
596 shares of Mattel, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Clare and
Michael Callahan Fund in the School of Business Administration............ 15,198
Capital Cities/ABC Inc., New York, New York
for the Daniel B. Burke Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies....................................................  250,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for employee matching gifts............................................ 86,290
Georgia M. Conrad, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund................................. 5,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics....................... 7,522
Peter C. Dendrinos, Frankfort
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 26,250
James J. and Anne M. Duderstadt, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, and for the Clements Library................... 5,125
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the
School of Music......................................................  51,754
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  matching gifts.............................................  7,740
Early English Text Society, Oxford, England
for the Middle English Dictionary Gift Fund............................... 7,713
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianaolis, Indiana
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship, School of Business Administration..... 5,000
E. C. Fackler, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the  University  Library..............................................  5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts........................................... 252,826
Stanley & Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in the School of
Business Administration and for support in the School of Social Work........ 22,500
Donna K. Fry-Welch, Flint
for student aid at the University of Michigan-Flint......................... 5,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 15,000
Allan D. Gilmour Fund of the Community Foundation, Dearborn
for the Allan D. Gilmour Endowed octoral Fellowship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of
Literature  Science, and  the Arts.........................................  5,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  6,136
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry........... 100,000
Marion L. Johnson Estate
for the Kenneth T. and Marion L. Johnson Law School Library Fund in
the  Law  School.................................................... 2,000,000
Elizabeth E. Kennedy, Montecito, California
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................. 5,000
Gerald P. Kolb, Aldan
100 shares of Exxon Corporation and
24 shares of Gannett Company common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,502
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health................................ 8,370


57




September Meeting, 1996


Lillian Levy Trust, Farmington Hills
for the Norman Levy Family Fund in the Medical School................... 10,000
Lewis Unitrust, Washington, DC
for the Frances and Sydney Lewis Visiting Leaders Program in the
Center for the Education of Women.....................................  38,931
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Dillard, Georgia
for the Ruth  Lobdell Scholarship.......................................  25,000
Alexander F. MacKinnon, Pasadena, California
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School.................... 5,000
Charles K. Marquis, New York, New York
for support of the Law School...........................................  5,000
McGraw-Hili Companies Foundation, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  7,784
Sarah Morgan Fund, Flint
for the Sarah and Carl Morgan Theater Scholarship and other support
at the  University  of Michigan-Flint.....................................  13,502
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry........... 100,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the  Medical School.......................................  6,250
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.................... 75,000
Oral Health America Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Dentistry....................................  8,525
Maxine Painter Trust
for undergraduate  student aid..........................................  20,723
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the Schools of Public Health and Natural Resources
and Environment................................                 1,411,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  10,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  5,174
James G. Phillipp, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law School................................  10,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  9,998
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the School of Music.......................................  5,000
PPOM, Southfield
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.............................................  5,005
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for employee matching gifts................................        60,394
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,837
Ramapo Trust, New York, New York
for the Brookdale National Fellowship in the Medical School, and
for research in the Institute of Gerontology............................. 121,480
Ralph E. Reins, Perrysburg, Ohio
1,000 shares of CISCO Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering.... 53,125
Rouge Steel Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn..................................................  20,000
Lodge D. Staubach Estate
5,000 shares of Online Entertainment common stock and a cash gift
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 83,994
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  25,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics................... 5,000


58




September Meeting, 1996


Lynn A. Townsend, Farmington Hills
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School........ 7,500
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor,
Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor;
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women... 7,500
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  13,800
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
for the Jean and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in the School of
Education.................................                          11,032
Warren/Conner Development Coalition, Detroit
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 16,500
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management in the School of
Business Administration.......................................   123,659
William Y. Webb, Radnor, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for bioengineering support in the College of Engineering................. 1,220,710
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies............................................ 10,000
Wolverine Mutual Insurance, Dowagiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
AAE Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry................................. $  14,903
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit fund.............. 6,000
Adac Plastics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Jay and Maryanne Alix Foundation, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 14,000
American Academy of Otolaryngology, Alexandria, Virginia
for research m the Medical School...................................... 10,000
American Automobile Manufacturer's Association, Detroit
for the Highway Safety Research Institute in the Transportation
Research Institute................................                 233,750
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the Colleges of Pharmacy and
Literature, Science, and the Arts.                                   70,273
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..................................... 12,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..............................................   118,598
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  90,577
American Lung Association National Office,
New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................. 25,000
Ameritech, Chicago, Illinois
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 10,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education at theUniversity of
Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts................ 326,150
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for the Parametric Analysis of Engineering Components Fund in the
College of Engineering................................................  15,000
Andrews and McMeel Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Journalists in Residence Program in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies.............................................  5,000
Aramco Services Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus
Media in the College of Engineering..................................... 20,000
Arbor Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in the Medical School......................................  68,250
59




September Meeting, 1996


Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
AT&T, Orlando, Florida
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration........... 10,000
Baker & McKenzie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Baker & McKenzie Law Student Assistance Program in the
Law  School.................................................  5,000
Roy Berlin Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 25,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for support in the Medical School........................................  5,000
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for the Burn Development Research and Education
Fund  in  the M edical School.............................................  5,000
Robert Bonczyk, Northville
for support in the School of Management, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  10,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn...........................................  10,000
Budres Foundation Scholarship, Grand Rapids
for the Budres Foundation Scholarship in the School of Music............... 5,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for biological chemistry research in the Medical School.....................   20,000
Mark L. Callaghan, Marquette
for the Anesthesiology Research Fund in the Medical School................. 5,000
John Carver, Brighton
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 6,700
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the BBSA Alumni Scholarship, the Hispanic Business Students
Association and the MBA Association in the School of Business
Administration........................................ 6,000
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint............................ 7,000
Cleft Palate Clinic Fund, Saginaw
for research  in  the  Medical School.......................................  5,000
Clicquot, Inc., New York, New York
for support of WUOM/WVGR...........................................  9,600
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus
Media in the College of Engineering.......................... 20,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School......................................  28,852
Ted Dacko, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
Dermik Laboratories, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School................. 5,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for the Catalytic Surfaces Studies Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  11,250
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York
for the Catherine Wynne Dolan Scholarship, and for employee
m atching  gifts........................................................  8,200
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
for the Robert B. Dunlap Endowment in the Medical School, and for the
Robert B. and Connie Dunlap Endowment in the University Library......... 55,000
Ralph H. Ellison Estate
for the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project.............................. 18,416
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching  gifts............................................  59,180
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New    ew York, Nw 
for support of the  Law  School...........................................   6,000


60




September Meeting, 1996


Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for research in the School of Engineering
and the Fair Lane Music Guild at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 10,600
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management in the School
of Business Administration............................................  12,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  18,000
Suzanne O. Frankie, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Information.................................  10,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  Arts.............................................................  10,00 0
Ruth Galloway Trust
for the Calvin B. Galloway Gift Fund in the Medical School................. 97,669
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 24,000
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  22,100
Eugene M. Grant and Company, New York, New York
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.......................................  25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education and the Center for Human
Growth  and  Development............................................  152,523
Grayling Fund, Detroit
for the University Musical Society.....................................  50,000
Greater Detroit Chamber of Commerce, Detroit
for the Detroit Compact Awards........................................  26,000
Douglas L. Grill Estate
for the Class of 1936 Engineer's Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 7,630
Gwenda G. Guthrie, Ypsilanti
for the MatthaeiBotanical Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science   and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus
Media in the College of Engineering..................................... 20,000
Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Center for Human Growth and Development....................... 10,000
Margaret J. Henny Trust, Boynton Beach, Florida
for the Chalmers J. Lyons Lectureship in the School of Dentistry............ 20,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for support in the Schools of Engineering and Management, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn......................................  500,000
Hoechst Marion Roussel,Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School, and
for support in the College of Pharmacy................................... 6,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 50,000
Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund, Hillsborough, California
for support in the College of Pharmacy................................... 8,500
Martha Hurst, Cincinnati, Ohio
358 shares of Alltel Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,293
IBM Canada, Ltd., Markham, Ontario, Canada
for the CSE Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 25,000
Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...............  5,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research and the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering... 80,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 25,800
Intevep, S.A., Los Teques Venezuela
or the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus
Media in  the College of Engineering.....................................  20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health, and for employee matching gifts.. 13,249
61




September Meeting, 1996


W.M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science., and the Arts............ 500,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Public Health, for the
Kellogg Public Policy Fellowship in the School of Public Policy; and
for employee matching gifts.......................................... 1,332,537
Kraft General Foods, Inc., Glenview, Illinois
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 15,000
Kroger Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,402
Richard P. Kughn, Farmingon Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics..................... 25,000
Madge Roy Latorre Estate
for the Madge Roy Scholarship in Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering in the College of Engineering............................... 20,000
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for the Communications Disorders Center in the Medical School............  5,000
Legacy Fund, Inc., Carmel, Indiana
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 25,000
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.......... 14,999
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research and other support in the School of Education................. 366,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  27,500
Lucille P. Markey Charitable Trust, Miami, Florida
for the Lucille P. Markey Basic Medical Research Fund, Medical School.... 2,000,000
Caroline A. McDonald Estate
for the Lysle I. Abbott Scholarship in the Law School....................... 5,281
McNamara Charity Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for scholarships and fellowships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 8,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Social Science Research Consortium for South Africa................ 30,000
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, St. Clair Shores
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School....... 18,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for mechanical engineering support and the Chemical Engineering
Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering, for
scholarships and fellowships in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment; and for automotive transportation research in the
Transportation  Research  Institute......................................  75,000
Eleanore Mullen Estate
for campus landscaping  support........................................  53,413
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  39,375
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, Arlington, Virginia
for the Mental Health Research Institute in the Medical School............ 100,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the Medical School.....................................  119,500
National Foundation for Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,000
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,517
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  135,327
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering........ 6,500
NBD Bancorp, Inc., Detroit
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts.......... 10,950
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's
Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, for the Sports
Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies; and for the Chris Webber/Nike Foundation Scholarship............. 66,599


62




September Meeting, 1996


Oliver M. Oakland Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital....................................  5,692
Oral Health America, Chicago Illinois
for support in  the School of Dentistry..................................  6,150
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for student aid and the Michigan Human Resources Partnership
Program in the School of Business Administration........................ 22,500
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 25,000
Elliot S. Pearlman, Chicago, Illinois
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the Schools
of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment......... 5,000
Roger S. Penske, Bloomfield Hills
for the Communication Disorders Center in the Medical School.............. 5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  50,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship, College of Engineering.... 10,000
Renal Physicians Association Research and Education Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  48,900
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarships in the College of
Pharmacy and the Schools of Nursing and Public Health and
for the Summer Research Program in the School of Dentistry................ 6,000
John 0. Robertson, Jr., Clayton, Georgia
8,204 shares of various corporate common stocks and
25,000 par municipal bonds
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship.................. 173,125
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research........................... 44,209
Dorothy Maitland Sanders Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 6,060
Hugh F. Schaefer Estate
for undergraduate student aid........................................ 100,000
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
Helen L. Schmutz Estate
for the Dr. Robert F. and Alice Ruthruff Memorial Fund in Chemistry,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 7,021
Peter W. Schweitzer, Scarsdale, New York
for the Susan and Peter W. Schweitzer Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  25,000
Stephen G. Solomon, Scarsdale, New York
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 20,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education..................................  11,935
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 49,150
St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, Minnesota
for research and the Cardiology Gift Fund in the Medical School............ 45,028
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Toko, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Stichting De Hooge Waard, Montfoort, Netherlands
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School................. 10,000
Alice A. Stoddard Irrevocable Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School.................. 8,028
Barbara H. Thompson, Traverse City
600 shares of General Electric and
500 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the Kenneth E. Thompson Endowed Scholarship in the Law School....... 93,531
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for student aid and the Associates Program in the School of
Business Administration..................................... 20,000
Union Oil Company of California, Brea, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus
Media in  the College of Engineering.....................................  20,000


63




September Meeting, 1996


Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Engineering Science Scholarship and the Center for Engineering
Education and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 30,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship in the
Department of Athletics...............................................  6,000
UroCor,Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School 22,000
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 10,000
John F. Wagner, Estate
25 percent ownership of a Metropolitan Life Insurance annuity
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........... 20,511
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, and for the Warner-Lambert
Distinguished Lectureship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  170,200
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Schools of Dentistry and
Medicine, and the University Hospitals; and for the University Musical Society.. 5,345
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics, and for support of
WUOM/WVGR.........................................              38,485
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for electrical engineering and computer science fellowships in the College
of Engineering, and for physics support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  72,526
R. Jamison Williams, Bloomfield Hills
for the Communication Disorders Center in the Medical School.............. 5,000
Elizabeth F. Wood Estate
for the Walter F. Wood Endowed Scholarship in the School of Dentistry...... 97,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowments in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 50,000
Asa G. Yancey, Sr., Atlanta, Georgia
101 shares of American Electric Power and
75 shares of AT&T Company common stocks
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  8,370
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
MCAE, Inc., Carmel, Indiana
35 sets of PC Inertia program development software for the University of MichiganFlint Engineering Program
Ford Motor Company, Detroit
Concentra software for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering
Henry E. Fradkin, Dearborn
an ezine Turkish tribal rug; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Berkowitz Gallery
Jan Bostwick, Flint
a mink stole for the theatre department
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
eight lots of manuscript americana for the Clements Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
four HP printers and related accessories,undergraduate research opportunities program
Hermine R. Klingler, Ann Arbor
46 hardbound monographs, 126 paperbound monographs, 190 journal issues and six
video cassettes all relating to the olympic games and other international sporting
events; for the University Library
Charlotte F. Liddell, Ann Arbor
a reproduction of "The Bridges of Narni" by Jean Baptiste Camille Corot for the Turner
Geriatrics Center
Spectrum Printers, Tecumseh
printing of the spring fund-raiser mailing; for WUOM/WVGR
Chester G. Starr Ann Arbor
classical books and journals for the Department of Classical Studies


64




September Meeting, 1996


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Leila R. Avrin, Ann Arbor
John R. Chamberlin, Ann Arbor
Chromatofast, Inc., Ann Arbor
Eugene M. Grant, Mamaroneck NY
Violet Hatounian, Northridge, CA
Huron Valley Rose Society, Ypsilanti
Carl K. Mahakian, Palm Springs, CA
Zareh Melkonian Fremont, CA
David O'Keeffe, Grand Blanc
Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Pamela K. Reister, Ann Arbor
Arsen A. Shahnazarian, Fairfield, CA
Patricia House, Flint
Richard Porter, Ann Arbor
Nikoghos Tahmizyan, Pasadena, CA
Mathew Alpern, Ann Arbor
Shalini Bahl, Canton
John C. Dann, Dexter
Mark H. Gerold, Canton
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor


John Harriman, Ann Arbor
Lily Kalagian, Livonia
Shaw Livermore, Jr., Ann Arbor
Marcus A. Mamaourian, Wynnewood, PA
Siva A. Mani, Novi
Douglas C. Morrison, Ann Arbor
Bonnie Mrasek, Swartz Creek
Alice A. Nersesian, Royal Oak
Minora Okada, Wayne
Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Dana Rutland, Flint
Elaine Samson, Brighton
Angela Stephenson, Romulus
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Alice A. Tashijian, Princeton, New Jersey
Seymour Veniar, Ann Arbor
Stuart G. Weisblatt, Huntington Woods
Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania


Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Machen submitted
a number of personnel actions and reports. He called attention to the
appointment of Stephen W. Director to the new Robert J. Vlasic endowed
deanship for the School of Engineering. This is the first endowed deanship
at the University of Michigan.
Chancellor Renick announced that the Dearborn campus had just received
its first million dollar deferred gift for an endowed chair.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1996
Doering, Charles R., Professor of Mathematics
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
England, Anthony W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Dean for Faculty Programs, Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, reappointed Associate Dean for Faculty
Programs, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, one-year term
Kunkel, Steven L., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Interdisciplinary Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, reappointed Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Programs and Initiatives,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, one-year term
Maassab, Hunein F., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Epidemiology, reappointed Chair, Department of Epidemiology, one year term


65




September Meeting, 1996


Reddy, Nallapu N., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Economics, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair, Department of Economics, UM-Flint,
three-year term, July 1, 1996
Roehl, Richard W., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Associate Dean, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Root, Lawrence S., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Director, Institute of Labor
and Industrial Relations, reappointed Director, Institute of Labor and Industrial
Relations, three-year term
Smith, Gene E., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Assistant Dean, College
of Engineering, reappointed Assistant Dean, College of Engineering, three-year term
Varde, Keshav S., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Dean,
School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, three-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Ascione, Frank J., Associate Professor of Pharmacy Administration, with tenure, and
Faculty Associate, Institute of Gerontology, also appointed Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, College of Pharmacy, twenty-two month term
Dunlop, Charles E. M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Gilsdorf, Janet R., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, also appointed Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public
Health, six-year term, June 1, 1996
Jacobs, Lloyd A., from Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Associate Dean
for Clinical Affairs, Medical School, to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and
Senior Associate Dean, Medical School
Jones, J. Wayne, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
five-year term
Keyes, P. Landis, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed Acting
Director, Research Sciences Program, six-month term, January 1, 1997
Mackie-Mason, Jeffrey K., Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy,
without tenure, School of Public Policy, also appointed Associate Professor of
Information, with tenure, School of Information
Matthews, Rowena G., G. Robert Greenberg Distinguished University Professor, with
tenure, Medical School, and Research Scientist, Biophysics Research Division, also
appointed Chair, Biophysics Research Division, five-year term
Mojica, Rafael H., Assistant Professor of Spanish, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Foreign Language, UM-Flint, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Redman, Richard W., Associate Professor of Nursing, without tenure, also appointed Interim
Associate Dean for Community Partnerships, nine-month term, October 1, 1996
Silverman, Ronald E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Psychology, UM-Flint, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Webb, Paul W., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Associate Dean, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, four-month term
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Blodi, Barbara A., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, personal leave extended,
July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997


66




September Meeting, 1996


Shaw, Theodore M., Assistant Professor of Law, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Woo, Anthony C., Professor of Industrial Operations Engineering, with tenure, leave without
salary extended, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cooper, Frederick, Professor of History, with tenure, Residential College, also appointed the
Charles Gibson Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 1996
Cross, Cynthia S., Assistant Dean for Program Support, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, five-year term, September 1, 1996
Director, Stephen W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, and Dean, College of Engineering, also appointed the Robert J. Vlasic Dean of
Engineering, November 1, 1996
Fornaess, John E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Frederick Gehring
Professor of Mathematics, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Humes, H. David, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Internal Medicine, also appointed the John G. Searle Professor of Internal Medicine,
two-year term, July 1, 1996
Katz, Martin E., Professor of Music (Accompanying and Chamber Music), with tenure, also
appointed the Artur Schnabel Collegiate Professor of Music in Piano, five-year term,
September 1, 1996
McElvain, Thomas W., University Registrar, five-year term, August 1, 1996
Miyake, Hitoshi, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, three-month term,
January 1, 1997
Rose, Homer C., Jr, from Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, to Assistant Dean for Academic Programs, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, five-year term, September 1, 1996
Smith, Edward E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed the Arthur W.
Melton Professor of Psychology, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Smith, Michael A., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence, October 7-11, 1996
Xie, Yu, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed the John Stephenson Perrin
Professor, three-year term, September 1, 1996
Yoshida, Teigo, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, five-month term, August 1, 1996
Arthur W. Melton Collegiate Professorship in Psychology. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Arthur W. Melton Collegiate
Professorship in Psychology, in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, effective July 1, 1997.
Edward     D. Campbell Collegiate         Professorship      in  Materials
Science and Engineering. The Regents approved the establishment of the
Edward D. Campbell Collegiate Professorship in Materials Science and
Engineering in the College of Engineering, effective September 1, 1996.
John Alexander Professorship in Thoracic Surgery. The Regents
approved the establishment of the John Alexander Professorship in Thoracic
Surgery in the Medical School, effective September 1, 1996.
Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering in the College of
Engineering, effective November 1, 1996
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:


67




September Meeting, 1996


Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selections Committee
Pitts, Barbara E., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997, vice Thomas A.
Roach, term expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Mazzara, Andrew A., reappointed July 1, 1996-June 30, 2000
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Bonfiglio, Olga M., September 1, 1997-August 31, 1999, vice Richard Moyer, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Levit, Robert A., M.A., Assistant Professor of Architecture
Malkawi, Ali M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture
McGovern, Patrick S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture
Young, Jason T., M.Arch., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School of Art and Design
Miller, Dennis A., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art
Rodemer, Carl M., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art
Staples, Loretta N., B.A., Assistant Professor of Art
School of Business Administration
Bhattacharyya, Sugato, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance
Gurhan, Zeynep, Ph.D., Lecturer in Marketing
Kapuscinski, Roman, M.S., Lecturer in Business Administration
Kotzian, Nancy A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Communication
Krishnan, Mayuram S., M.S., Lecturer in Business Administration, August 1, 1996
Priester, Joseph R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing
School of Dentistry
Heine, Brian T., D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1996
Snyder, Mark D., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 1, 1996
School of Education
O'Connor, Carla, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
College of Engineering
Jamin, Sugih, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Division of Kinesiology
Kim, Daniel, M.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, August 1, 1996
Whiteheart, LuAnne, M.S.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, July 1, 1996
Law School
Bilsky, Eric A., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, July 1, 1996
Bromberg, Howard J., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, August 1, 1996
Seymour, Thomas H., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, July 1, 1996
Spencer, Carolyn R., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, July 15, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Babayan, Kathryn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Persian Literature
Baumiller, Tomasz K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences
Bauserman, Robert L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Benson, Heidi P., M.A., Lecturer I in Italian
68




September Meeting, 1996


Boys, Kimberly S., M.A., Lecturer II in Spanish
Brandt, Kari L., Ph.D. Lecturer I in Anthropology, July 1, 1996
Comina, Marc, Ph.D., Lecturer II in French
Dorantes, Maria De Lourdes, M.A., Lecturer II in Spanish
Duan, Cunming, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
Esmiol, Olivier, D.E.A., Lecturer II in French
Fitzpatrick, David J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History
Gold, Debra L., M.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, July 1, 1996
Gonzalez, John M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor
of English
Greenberg, Valerie D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in German
Hall, Jon C., B.S., Lecturer I in English
Hancock, David J., Assistant Professor of History
Hayes, Jarrod L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of French
Hertz, Dalia, M.A., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Houck, John C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Astronomy
Hutchings, Vincent L., B.A., Assistant Professor of Political Science, September 1, 1997
Kasoff, Betty L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1996
Keyek-Franssen, Deborah L., Lecturer II in German, July 1, 1996
Kilian, Lutz, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Longan, Nathan F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Russian Pedagogy, May 1, 1996
Lorenzon, Wolfgang B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Mangiafico, Lara F., Ph.D., Lecturer III in French
Maren, Stephen A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Marker, Cynthia E., B.A., Lecturer I in French
McDonagh, Susan J., B.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1996
Merriwether, David A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Merriwether, Ann M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Miracle, Preston T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Anthropology, July 1, 1996
Morrison, Molly G., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Italian
Myers, Jennifer T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Nornes, Mark H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Film and Video, and Assistant Professor of
Asian Languages and Cultures
Olwell, Russell B., M.A., Lecturer II in History of Science and Technology
Pepper, John W., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Anthropology
Rast, Hubert, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of German
Ross, Michael L., M.A., Instructor I Political Science
Sakata, Shinichi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Salehzadeh, Julia E., M.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1996
Satterfield, Teresa L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics and Romance Languages,
September 1, 1997
Sinsheimer-Weeks, Ann M., J.D., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1996
Smith, Robert C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Astronomy
Trotter, Mark M., M.A., Lecturer II in Russian Literature, May 1, 1996
Uthus, Kristen L., M.S., Lecturer II in Biology, July 1, 1996
Walter, Marguerite C., M.A., Lecturer I in French
Walton, Susan P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Musicology
Wintroub, A. Michael, Assistant Professor of History
Ybarra, Oscar, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Young, Alford A. Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies
Medical School
Alvarez, David J., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 1, 1996
Arenberg, Douglas A., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Benzmiller, Phillip G., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Best, Richard M., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Blackman, Stephen A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 1, 1996
Brodeur, Frederick J. Jr., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Buse, Thomas M., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Chang, Eugenia, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1996
Collier, Phillip J., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1996
Colwell, Miles O., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation


69




September Meeting, 1996


Cutson, Toni M., M.D., Lecturer in Family Practice, August 1, 1996
De Angelis, Elisa M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 1, 1996
Deretic, Dusanka, M.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, July 1, 1996
Dolan, Olivia M., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, July 1, 1996
El-Kashlan, Hussam K., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1996
Erba, Harry P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Fante, Robert G., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Fischer, Jeffrey L., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Forman, Glenn M., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 1, 1996
Fravel, Jonathan F., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Froehlich, James B., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Furney, Scott L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1996
Gordon, James A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1996
Gottfredsdottir, Maria S., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Goyal, Rajiva, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Grant, Robert J., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1996
Gupta, Balaji K., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Hamlet, Katherine R., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, July 1, 1996
Hayman, James A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1996
Hornyak, Joseph E., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 1, 1996
Housner, Jeffrey A., M.D., Lecturer in Family Practice, August 1, 1996
Huang, Milton P., M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, August 1, 1996
Hunter, Roberta J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Kerr, Eve M., M.P.H., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Koh, Eun-Kyu, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1996
Kovach, Julie A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Lanter, Patricia L., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1996
Lee, Michael D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1996
Lesperance, Marci M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, July 29, 1996
Llenderrozos, Hector J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 1, 1996
Linsk, Richard L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1996
Lowe, Lori, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Pathology, July 9, 1996
Magee, John C., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1996
Maki, Jeffrey H., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
McMaster, Lawrence J., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 5, 1996
Munnell, Michelle L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, July 1, 1996
Nair, Sankar A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1996
Ojo, Tammy C., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Orsetti, Kym E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1996
Pendleton, Sara M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1996
Perry, Marcia A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1996
Perucchini, Daniele, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1996
Piccione, Richard J., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Pipe, Steven W., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1996
Prince, Mark E. P., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1996
Proudfoot, Jeffrey C., D.O., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, July 17, 1996
Punukollu, Pavan K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Reyes, Teodoro U., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 15, 1996
Roskoph, Candace H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Rustad, Todd J., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1996
Smith, Patricia M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, July 1, 1996
Spicer, Deidre K., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Steider, Malcolm D., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 1, 1996
Sternberg, Douglas M., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 3, 1996
Sweet, Jeffrey L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
Swinford, Ann E., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Teo, Eu-Leong H. J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Thomas, Isaac C. III, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1996
Valentini, Rudolph P., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1996


70




September Meeting, 1996


Wallbom, Agnes S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
August 19, 1996
Ward, Randy K., M.D., Lecturer in Family Practice, July 15, 1996
Wing, Christopher M., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1996
Wolf, J. Stuart, Jr., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1996
Wolintz, Robyn J., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1996
Woods, John D., M.P.H., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1996
School of Music
Bacon, George E., M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre
DeYoung, Sandra M. T., Assistant Professor of Dance
Hill, Marianne P., M.M., Lecturer in Music (Music Theory)
Ridley, Arthur S. Jr., M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre
School ofNursing
Raisler, Jeanne, Dr.Ph., Assistant Professor of Nursing
School of Public Health
Murray, Susan, Sc.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics
Williams, Robert M., M.D., Lecturer in Health Management and Policy, July 1, 1996
School of Social Work
Yoshihama, Mieko, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Borquez, Julio L., B.A., Lecturer in Political Science
Guerrieri, Mark J., M.A., Lecturer in Political Science
Nesmith, Judy M., M.S., Lecturer in Biology
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Matthews, Steven M., Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Van Tiem, Darlene M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Barnes, Roy C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Gardner, Catherine H., M.A., Lecturer in Philosophy
Machiorlatti, Jennifer A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English
Perry, Mark J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Scott, Bert L., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre
Viele, Dennis P., B.S., Lecturer in Biology
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Goldberg, Allon, B.S., Lecturer in Physical Therapy, July 1, 1996
Mulhorn, Kristine A., M.H.S.A., Lecturer in Health Care
CHANGES TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Schertzer, Robert M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, January 15, 1996
(previously reported as Lecturer in Ophthalmology)
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Donegan, Mary M., M.S., Lecturer in Education, September 1, 1996 (previously reported as
Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Ann Arbor School of Education)


71




September Meeting, 1996


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Gerigk, Carola A., from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1996
McGowan, Joan M., from Associate Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure, School of
Dentistry, and Lecturer in Community Health Programs, School of Public Health, to
Associate Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure, School of Dentistry, July 1, 1996
Medical School
Burke, James J., from Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology to House Officer, Obstetrics
and Gynecology, July 1, 1995
Chey, William D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Gay, Tamara L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, August 1, 1996
Kerber, Kevin B., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, August 1, 1996
Lown, Kenneth S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Marcus, Sheila M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, August 1, 1996
Mulligan, Michael S., from Lecturer in Pathology to House Officer, Surgery, July 1, 1996
O'Reilly, Michael, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, April 1, 1996
Osborne, Janet L., from Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology to House Officer, Obstetrics
and Gynecology, July 1, 1996
Pernicano, Perry G., from Instructor in Radiology to Clinical Instructor II in Radiology,
July 1, 1996
Vasquez, Delia M., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, March 1, 1995
College of Pharmacy
Siden, Rivka, from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Assistant Professor I of
Pharmacy, August 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Barney, Deborah V. S., from Assistant Professor of English, Department of Humanities, to
Assistant Professor of English Language, Literature, and Humanities, September 1, 1996
Lawson, Jacqueline E., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, to Associate Professor of English Language, Literature, and Communication,
with tenure, September 1, 1996
Pearson, Sheryl S., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, to Associate Professor of English Language, Literature, and Communication,
September 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Darvas, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Clark, Walter H. Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature,
Residential College, September 1-December 31, 1996
Gold, Martin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
Teske, Richard G., Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, September 1, 1996-April 30, 1997
College of Engineering
Kerr, William, Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Director Emeritus of the
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, September 1-December 31, 1996


72




September Meeting, 1996


Medical School
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, August 1, 1996 -July 31, 1997
Beaudoin, Allan R., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, January 1 -December 31, 1997
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy, September 1, 1996-August 31, 1997
La Du, Bert N. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Cox, Taylor Jr., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources
Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Haessler, Robert W., Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Stecke, Kathryn E., Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, and Jack
D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor in Business Administration,
sabbatical leave
School of Dentistry
Lang, Brien R., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, phased retirement, September 1, 1996 -August 31, 1998
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough,
May 1, 1996-December 31, 1997
School of Education
Moss, Pamela A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Engineering
Burns, Mark A., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Demond, Avery H., Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Dutta, Debasish, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
Eisley, Joe G., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, phased retirement,
September 1-May 31, 1998
Haghi, Mehrdad, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1996
Holmes, John W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, and Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Katopodes, Nikolaos D., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Kuhn, William R., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Spaces Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Laine, Richard M., Associate Professor of Materials and Science and Engineering, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Li, Victor C., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Linderman, Jennifer J., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Martin, Bernard J., Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Messiter, Arthur F. Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, phased retirement,
January 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Naaman, Antoine E., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
73




September Meeting, 1996


Parsons, Michael G., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Sichel, Martin, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, phased retirement,
January 1-May 31, 1998
White, Chelsea C. III, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Yalisove, Steven M., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Law School
Reimann, Mathias W., Professor of Law, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Achen, Christopher H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1996, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Anderson, Andrew A., Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, leave without salary,
August 1, 1996-July 31, 1997
Awkward, Michael, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, leave without salary
Barvinok, Alexandre I., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1996 and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Bergmann, Frithjof H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, research leave, January 1 -May 31, 1997
Bonner, Michael D., Associate Professor of Islamic History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Brown, Morton, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Buss, David M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary
Canning, Kathleen M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Cohen, David W., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, without
tenure, and Director, International Institute, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31,1996
Cole, Juan R., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Courant, Paul N., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, Chair, Department
of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public
Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1996, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Eagle, Herbert J., Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, without tenure, Residential
College, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Evrard, August, Assistant Professor of Physics, sabbatical leave
Flannery, Kent V., James B. Griffin Distinguished University Professor of Anthropological
Archaeology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Gland, John L., Professor of Chemistry and Applied Physics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Chemical Engineering, without
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Glick, Gary D., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Goldberg, Jack L., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Gordon, Roger H., Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1996, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Hill, Bruce M., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Holland, John H., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Kaplan, Stephen, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Kaufman, Peter B., Professor of Biology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1997


74




September Meeting, 1996


Lieberman, Victor B., Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Lohr, Lawrence L. Jr., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Lubman, David M., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Marcus, Joyce P., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of Latin American
Archaeology, sabbatical Leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Paris, Scott G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, May 1, 1997-April 30,
1998
Payne, Robert B., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator of Birds, Museum of
Zoology, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Prins, Johanna H., Assistant Professor of English and Comparative Literature, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1996
Robertson, Jennifer E., Associate Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with
tenure, scholarly activity leave
Sanchez, George J., Associate Professor of History and American Culture, with tenure, and
Director, American Culture Program, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Scott, G. Peter, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus
Seifert, Colleen M., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Skantze, P.A., Assistant Professor of English, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1997
Sloat, Barbara M., Lecturer III in Biology, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Spink, Walter M., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1996 to May 31, 2000
Tanke, John W., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Trautmann, Thomas R., Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology,
without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Vinovskis, Maris A., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Wynne, Michael J., Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Curator, Herbarium, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Yates, J. Frank, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Zald, Mayer N., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration, phased
retirement, September 1, 1996-May 31, 2001
Medical School
Cho, Kyung J., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1996
Csorgo, Zsuzsanna B., Lecturer in Dermatology, personal leave, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
Kasa-Vubu, Josephine Z., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
extended sick leave, April 12-May 26, 1996
Korobkin, Melvyn T., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1996
Krieger, Kristen A., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine and Clinical Instructor II in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, extended sick leave, July 23-August 9, 1996
Margolis, Philip M., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1996 -June 30, 1997
School of Music
Gordon, Charles F., Associate Professor of Theatre, without tenure, School of Music, and
Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
McDaniel, Lorna A., Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), without
tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Nadon-Gabrion, Catherine A., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of
Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1997


75




September Meeting, 1996


Nagel, Louis B., Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Wiley, Roland J., Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, leave without
salary
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Erickson, Donna L., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Kaplan, Rachel, Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
School of Public Health
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Richard Carl Jelinek Professor of Health Management and Policy,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
Batterman, Stuart A., Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Israel, Barbara A., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Kshirsagar, Anant M., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1997
Mick, Stephen S., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Weissert, William G., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Clark, Kathleen C., Assistant Professor of French, leave without salary, September 1, 1996 -April 30, 1997
Cohn, Thomas S., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Gillespie, John A., Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Mostafapour, M. Kazem, Associate Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Nadasen, Arunajallam, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Zuck, Louis V., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Czarnecki, Richard E., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1996-April 30, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Althoen, Steven C., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1997
CHANGES TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Hayes, John P., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 1, 1997 (previously reported as September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997)
Schwartz, Jessica, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996 -June 30, 1996 (previously reported as September 1, 1995-August 31, 1996)
Vorus, William S., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
and Director, Michigan Sea Grant Program, leave without salary, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996 (previously reported as sabbatical leave)


76




September Meeting, 1996


CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Porter, James I., Associate Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, with
tenure, cancellation of scholarly activity leave (previously reported as September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997)
College of Engineering
Ulaby, Fawwaz T., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and R. Jamisonn and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering, cancellation of
sabbatical leave (previously reported as September 1-December 31, 1996)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Angelini, Bradford L., Assistant Professor of Architecture, term complete
Hille, R. Thomas, Assistant Professor of Architecture, term complete
School of Business Administration
Arnett, Harold E., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, retired, June 30, 1996
Bodurtha, James N. Jr., Assistant Professor of Finance and International Business, resigned
Chatterjee, Rabikar, Assistant Professor of Marketing, resigned, August 31, 1996
Hosmer, LaRue T., Professor of Corporate Strategy, with tenure, retired
Moller, William G. Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retired
Reinhart, Karen B., Lecturer in Accounting, term complete, June 30, 1996
Spivey, W. Allen, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and Clare E. Griffin Professor of
Business Administration, retired
School of Dentistry
Corpron, Richard E., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and March L. Ward Professor of
Dentistry, retired, August 31, 1996
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, retired, August 31, 1996
Hildebrandt, Gary H., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned, August 31, 1996
College of Engineering
Tommelein, Iris D., Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, resigned,
May 31, 1997
Vorus, William S., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
and Director, Michigan Sea Gate Program, resigned
School of Information
Miller, Carolynn M., Lecturer in Information and Library Studies, resigned, August 23, 1996
Law School
Israel, Jerold H., Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law, with tenure, retired,
August 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aitches, Marian A., Lecturer I in English, resigned
Balaghi, Shiva, Lecturer II in Women's Studies and Lecturer II in Women's Studies,
Residential College, resigned
Bankowski, Geoffrey M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
May 31, 1996
Bardwick, John III, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired, March 31, 1996
Berger, Romy A., Lecturer I in French, term complete
Blickle, Peter, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literature, term complete, April 30, 1996
Clark, Francelia, Lecturer I in English, term complete, June 30, 1996


77




September Meeting, 1996


Condon, William F. Jr., Lecturer III in English, and Director, English Composition Board,
resigned, June 30, 1996
Doris, John M., Lecturer II in Philosophy, term complete, June 30, 1995
Dunavan, Sandra L., Lecturer I in Anthropology, term complete, August 31, 1995
Erni, Gabriela A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Frazier, Lessie J., Lecturer II in Anthropology, term complete, August 31, 1995
Gidal, Eric, Lecturer I in English, term complete
Gregg, Veronica M., Assistant Professor of English and Comparative Literature, term
complete, August 31, 1996
Guilarte, Miguel G., Assistant Professor of Sociology, term complete
Hallada, Marian C., Lecturer III in Chemistry, retired, August 31, 1996
Heaton, Maria M., Lecturer I in Spanish, resigned
Johnson, Susan L., Assistant Professor of History and Women's Studies, resigned
Kirsch, Stuart A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, term complete, April 30, 1996
Landman, Janet T., Lecturer II in Psychology, resigned
Lee, Lung-fei, Professor of Economics, with tenure, resigned
Lombardi, Margaret, Lecturer II in Italian, term complete
Loncar, Michael G., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature and Lecturer II in Film
and Video Studies, term complete, April 30, 1996
McKinney, Todd S., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
May 31, 1996
Mellor, Cheryl A., Lecturer III in French, resigned, August 31, 1996
Milman, Nyusya, Lecturer III in Slavic Languages and Literatures, resigned
Ryan, Clare M., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, term complete, December 31, 1995
Sandoval, Michael L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Schelle, Hansjoerg, Professor of German, retired
Scheppele, Kim L., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate
Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, resigned
Seidman, Gay, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, resigned
Seigneurie, May, Lecturer I in French, resigned
Shaffer, Greg E., Assistant Professor of Economics, term complete
Standish, Marc, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Varian, Hal R., Reuben Kempf Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Finance, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, resigned, August 31, 1996
Voss, Edward G., Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Curator of Vascular Plants, retired,
August 31, 1996
Wareham, Timothy M., Lecturer I in Anthropology, term complete, June 30, 1995
Westbrook, Matthew D., Lecturer I in English, term complete, December 31, 1995
Medical School
Angelos, Peter, Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, June 21, 1996
Becton, William W., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, August 31, 1996
Bergman, Cynthia A., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, resigned, June 30, 1996
Cameron, Bruce D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1996
Clevens, Ross A., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, term complete, June 30, 1996
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor
of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, retired, August 31, 1996
Coyle, Peter, Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1996
DeMeireles, Mario J. C., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete, June 30, 1996
Donahue, Stephen M., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 5, 1996
Gunn, Joseph D., Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, resigned, June 30, 1996
Harris, Estelle S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete, June 30, 1996
Horner, Thomas M., Assistant Professor of Psychology, term complete, June 30, 1996
Janardan, Srinivas K,, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete, June 30, 1996
Morton, Asa D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1996
Newman, Sarah W., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1996
Nuttall, Alfred L., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, retired, July 31, 1996


78




September Meeting, 1996


Payne, Anita H., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, retired, July 31, 1996
Pou-Vendrell, Carlos R., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, term complete, July 31, 1996
Singleton, John R., Lecturer in Neurology, resigned, June 30, 1996
Smith, John W. II, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, resigned,
August 2, 1996
Tipirneni, Hiral V., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, July 31, 1996
Uri, Daniel S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, resigned, July 31, 1996
Ward, Michael J., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, resigned,
June 30, 1996
Weatherbee, Lee A., Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, deceased, April 25, 1996
Wittenberg, Marc I., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, June 30, 1996
School of Music
Dunnis, Robert F., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, resigned, August 18, 1996
Newby, Stephen M., Assistant Professor of Music (Music/Media Technology and Composition),
resigned
Simmons, Renee A., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, resigned
School of Nursing
Hayes-Hall, Patricia T., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned
Schliska, Rose M., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned
College of Pharmacy
Collins-Knaggs, Carol L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, resigned, July 15, 1996
Hoffman-Kirschner, Elyse J., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, term complete, July 31, 1996
Rice, Ted L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, resigned, August 2, 1996
Whittico, Mathew T., Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics, term complete, June 30, 1996
School of Public Health
Waidmann, Timothy A., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, resigned,
August 31, 1996
School of Social Work
Churchill, Sallie R., Professor of Social Work, resigned
Copeland, Valire C., Assistant Professor of Social Work, resigned
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Fleury, Christopher J., Lecturer in Political Science, resigned, August 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Cowan, D. Ross, Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
DeGroot, Elisabeth A. M., Lecturer in Education, resigned, June 30, 1996
Rae, Wesley D., Professor of English, with tenure, retired, June 30, 1996
CHANGES TO
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Harvey, Mark N., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, June 30, 1996
(previously reported as June 14, 1996)
School of Business Administration
Crowston, Kevin G., Assistant Professor of Computer Information Systems, resigned,
August 31, 1996 (previously reported as May 31, 1996)
Retirement memoirs. Eighteen retirement memoirs were submitted
for adoption. Regent Baker called attention to the retirement of W. Alien
Spivey from the business school, noting that his son had characterized
79




September Meeting, 1996


Professor Spivey as the best professor he had ever encountered at the
University of Michigan.
Harold E. Arnett, professor of accounting in the School of Business
Administration, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1996.
Professor Arnett received his B.S. degree in 1955, his M.S. degree in
1958, and his Ph.D. degree in 1962, all from the University of Illinois. He
received his C.P.A. in 1960. He was with the American Institute of C.P.A.s
and Ernst & Whinney before joining the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor in 1962. He was promoted to associate professor in 1966
and to professor in 1970.
Professor Arnett has been an outstanding teacher and faculty member.
He has been a central figure in the B.B.A. curriculum for many years, and his
teaching evaluations are routinely among the highest in his area. He has
provided a strong senior faculty presence during many innovations and
revisions in the curriculum and has always been a champion for the excellence
of our accounting program. In lieu of the retirement furlough to which he
was entitled, he constructed a creative phased-retirement program which
allowed him to remain in the classroom and stay involved in the life of the
school. His classroom contributions, his good humor, and his strong collegial
presence will be sorely missed.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Harold E.
Arnett professor emeritus of accounting.
Richard E. Corpron, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the Department
of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry, and Marcus L. Ward Professor of
Dentistry, School of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 1996.
Dr. Corpron received his D.D.S. degree in 1954, his M.S. degree in
pedodontics in 1960, his M.S. degree in anatomy in 1962, and his Ph.D.
degree in anatomy in 1956, all from the University of Michigan. He joined
the faculty of the School of Dentistry in 1964 as an instructor and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1966, associate professor in 1969, and
professor in 1972.
In 1969, Dr. Corpron was appointed chair of the Department of
Pedodontics. He served in that capacity until 1987, when the department
was combined with orthodontics to form the Department of Orthodontics and
Pediatric Dentistry.  During his career, he has distinguished himself
nationally and internationally as a dental scholar, researcher, administrator,
and teacher. Through his dedication and talent, Dr. Corpron has earned the
respect of his peers and his students. He has been a member or chair of over
100 master's thesis committees. Dr. Corpron has an outstanding record of
achievement in dental research and publication in scientific journals. His
main research interests have most recently included remineralizaton of
carious enamel.
Dr. Corpron has served on almost all of the standing committees within
the School of Dentistry. At the University level, he was a member of the
Senate Assembly from 1975-80, served as chair of SACUA from 1979-80, and
was a member of the University's Budget Priorities Committee from 1985-88.
He has been an active member and/or office holder in numerous dental


80




September Meeting, 1996


professional organizations and is also a member of Phi Kappa Phi and
Omicron Kappa Upsilon honorary societies. He was named the Marcus L.
Ward Professor of Dentistry in 1993, in recognition of his outstanding
intellectual leadership and nationally-recognized achievement in research,
teaching, and service.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Richard E. Corpron professor emeritus of dentistry and Marcus L.
Ward Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Raymond E. Counsell, professor of pharmacology in the Medical
School and professor of medicinal chemistry in the College of Pharmacy,
retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1996, after a distinguished
and productive career as a scientist, educator, and administrator.
Born in Vancouver, British Columbia, Professor Counsell received his
B.S.P. degree from the University of British Columbia in 1953 and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Minnesota in 1957. From 1957-64, he served as
a senior research chemist with G.D. Searle and Company in Skokie, Illinois.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1964 as associate professor of
pharmaceutical chemistry in the College of Pharmacy and in the Medical
School. He was promoted to professor in 1969 and was appointed professor of
pharmacology in 1973.
Throughout his career, Professor Counsell has been active in the design,
synthesis, and evaluation of chemical regulators of biological processes and
organ and tumor-imaging agents for the early diagnosis of disease. Most
notable has been his development of agents for the noninvasive visualization
of tumors in such organs as the liver, the prostate gland, and the adrenal
cortex. His studies have been reported in over 250 peer-reviewed publications
and 20 book chapters, and he holds 45 patents. During the course of these
investigations, he has served as thesis chair for 25 Ph.D. students and 12
Master's Degree students and has supervised the training of 35 postdoctoral
fellows.
Professor Counsell has served on the editorial boards of the Journal of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Annual Reports in Medicinal Chemistry, the
Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, and the Journal of Nuclear Biology and
Medicine, and has been active in a number of professional organizations.
Among his honors are the Horner Gold Medal for Pharmacy, the American
Cancer Society Eleanor Roosevelt International Fellowship, the T.O. Soine
Memorial Award, the Genia Czerniak Prize in Nuclear Medicine and
Radiopharmacology, the Fogerty Senior International Fellowship, the Doctor
honoris causa from the University of Ghent, Belgium, and the Alumni
Outstanding Achievement Award of the University of Minnesota.
In the Department of Pharmacology, Professor Counsell served as acting
chair from September 1987 through February 1988, interim chair from
1990-93, and associate chair from 1993 until his retirement. He has also been
active in the Interdepartmental Program in Medicinal Chemistry since its
inception and served as chair from 1973-1976.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Raymond E. Counsell professor emeritus of pharmacology
and professor emeritus of medicinal chemistry.


81




September Meeting, 1996


D. Ross Cowan, associate professor of operations management at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on
April 30, 1996.
Professor Cowan received his B.A. degree (1950) from Yale University
and his B.S.F (1954) and M.F. (1960) degrees from the University of
Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn as a lecturer in
statistics in 1959 and was promoted to assistant professor of business
administration in 1966 and associate professor in 1968.
Professor Cowan's administrative duties included serving as chair of the
Division of Business Administration from 1971-73 and acting dean of the
School of Management from 1973-75. His extensive service to the School of
Management included terms on the executive committee, Academic Standards
Committee, and Curriculum Committee. Professor Cowan has also been
elected to numerous campus-wide committees, including the Faculty
Committee, Computer Committee, Library Planning Committee, and most
recently, the Senate Assembly (1991-94). In addition, he served on and/or
chaired many other unit and campus committees, including the Council of
Deans and the Academic Appeals Board. Professor Cowan was also a member
of several professional associations and societies, including the Association of
Computing Machinery, the Institute of Management Science, and the
American Statistical Association.
As noted in his faculty promotion recommendation of 1966, "Mr. Cowan
has been one of the very significant contributors to the development of the
Dearborn campus. Since the first class enrolled in 1959, he has given his
extensive talents and time to creating and implementing a new academic
program with all the supporting activities." Professor Cowan was considered
an excellent teacher and educator, who was among the first, if not the first, on
the Dearborn campus to integrate computer use and computer-based
quantitative analysis into the business curriculum.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and senior member of the
Dearborn campus by naming D. Ross Cowan associate professor emeritus of
operations management.
Peter Coyle, professor of anatomy and cell biology, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 1996, after a productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Vermont, Dr. Coyle received his B.A. degree from the
University of Vermont (1962) and his M.S. (1964) and Ph. D. (1967) degrees
from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in the Department of Anatomy in 1967 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1970, associate professor in 1977, and
professor in 1988. In 1984-85, he spent a sabbatical year at the University of
Iowa on a NIH Senior Fellowship.
Professor Coyle has had a long-standing interest in the vasculature of the
brain, and he became a member of the University of Michigan Hypertension
Progam Project in 1981. Over the years, he has made a number of important
contributions to the biomedical literature on mechanisms underlying strokes
and the adaptive responses of the remaining cerebral vasculature after a
stroke has occurred.


82




September Meeting, 1996


Throughout his career, Professor Coyle has been actively involved in the
teaching program of the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology. He has
contributed regularly to neuroanatomical instruction of both medical and
dental students, and has been an active participant in the graduate
neurosciences instructional program. He has produced a number of teaching
guides and manuals, as well as some highly-imaginative modular programmed
laboratory stations for instruction in neuroanatomy. Working with other
faculty, he has also produced a plastic model of the internal structures of the
brain which is currently in commercial production.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for
his dedicated service by naming Peter Coyle professor emeritus of anatomy
and cell biology.
Francis M. Donahue, professor of chemical engineering, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 1996, following a productive career in teaching,
research, and service.
Professor Donahue earned his B.A. degree in 1956 at LaSalle College and
his Ph.D. degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1965. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor in 1965 and
was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1979. He has
also served as a visiting professor at the United States Air Force Academy and
the Technische Hochschule in Zurich, Switzerland.
Professor Donahue was responsible for establishing the program in
electro-chemistry as applied to chemical engineering processes, thereby
restoring and enlarging the department's competence in this important area.
His love for classroom teaching will be remembered by all of his students.
With judicious use of humor and a thorough knowledge of all topics, his
courses have been stimulating and his students responsive. He has the
distinction of having taught all the required undergraduate chemical
engineering courses, as well as new graduate courses. Professor Donahue
contributed unselfishly in counseling undergraduate students. His service to
the department includes a term as associate chair. He has also regularly
presented courses for life-long learning and continuing education students.
His research has focused on two different, but related, areas. One
involves the use of electrochemical processes to study rates and mechanisms
of molecular transport-a large advance over regular electro-deposition
studies. The other area involves research into the efficient conversion of
chemical to electrical energy, such as in fuel cell and battery development,
and in the storage of electrical energy. He is a thorough researcher who
contributed significantly to the field of electrochemical reaction dynamics and
the specific areas of corrosion and electroless plating. His work demonstrates
perception; his publications are thoughtful, concise, and original.  More
recently, he collaborated with colleagues in the Departments of Physics and
Chemistry on studies involving the recent controversy surrounding cold
fusion.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Francis M. Donahue professor emeritus of chemical engineering.
Sondra M. Gunn, D.D.S., assistant professor of dentistry, retired from
active faculty status on August 31, 1996.


83




September Meeting, 1996


Dr. Gunn received her A.B. degree in secondary education in 1960, her
A.M. degree in science for teachers in 1963, her D.D.S. degree in 1978, and
her M.S. degree in orthodontics in 1980, all from the University of Michigan.
She joined the School of Dentistry faculty in 1979 as assistant professor. She
has served as director of the graduate orthodontic clinic since June 1990.
Dr. Gunn is licensed by the Northeast Regional Board of Dentistry,
maintains a Michigan dental license and a Michigan orthodontic license, and
is certified by the American Board of Orthodontics. Her service has extended
to membership and offices in professional societies, including the Michigan
and American Associations of Orthodontists, the Great Lakes Association of
Orthodontists, International Association of Dental Research, the Alumni
Dental Association, the Washtenaw District Dental Society, and the American
Association of Women Dental Students. She has also served as secretary of
the University of Michigan Orthodontic Alumni Society.
In addition to being a dedicated teacher in the classroom and clinic, Dr.
Gunn has served on several master's degree thesis committees for graduate
students in orthodontics and has served on a number of school and University
committees. She has been a faculty advisor for the Summer Dental Student
Research Program, the Minority Student Summer Program, and the Michigan
Association of Women Dentists, and has served as a resource person for the
Women in Science Program. Dr. Gunn has also lectured and presented
research at national meetings, and has published several articles in
peer-reviewed journals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Sondra M. Gunn assistant professor emerita of dentistry.
LaRue T. Hosmer, professor of corporate strategy and director, Magna
International Office of Entrepreneurial Studies in the School of Business
Administration, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996.
Professor Hosmer received his A.B. degree in 1949, his M.B.A. degree in
1951, and his D.B.A. degree in 1971, all from Harvard University. Following
completion of his M.B.A. degree, he was president of his own company for
twelve years. After completing his doctoral degree, he served as visiting
professor at Stanford University, Yale University, and the Naval Postgraduate
School before joining the University of Michigan faculty as associate professor
in 1971. He was promoted to professor in 1976.
Professor Hosmer has devoted much of his professional life to the study
of the ethical problems involved in managerial decisions. He has published
widely on this topic, and as recently as 1994 published a book: Moral
Leadership in Management. He has integrated this interest into innovative
classroom offerings on the application of ethics and entrepreneurship in
contemporary business settings. He has maintained an active research
agenda and continues to publish in scholarly journals. His quiet insistence on
the need to incorporate ethical teachings into the curriculum has been heeded
and appreciated. He has also served as mentor to junior faculty who will
continue his work in this area.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming LaRue T.
Hosmer professor emeritus of corporate strategy.


84




September Meeting, 1996


Jerold H. Israel, professor of law and the Alene and Allan F. Smith
Professor of Law, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1996, after
a distinguished career of teaching and research.
Born in 1934, Professor Israel received his B.B.A. degree from Western
Reserve University in 1956 and his LL.B. degree from Yale Law School in
1959. From 1959-61, he served as law clerk to Justice Potter Stewart at the
United States Supreme Court. Professor Israel began his career at the Law
School in 1961 as an assistant professor; he was promoted to associate
professor in 1964, to professor in 1967, and to the newly created Alene and
Allan F. Smith chair in 1982. Professor Israel has also visited and taught at
the University of Florida, Stanford University, and the University of Kansas.
From 1973-92, in addition to his academic duties, Professor Israel was
executive secretary to the Michigan Law Revision Commission, an agency of
the Michigan legislature which proposed and secured enactment of revisions
of 46 statutes during his tenure.
Professor Israel's work as scholar and teacher has focused on criminal
law and procedure, fields in which he is acknowledged as one of the greatest
authorities in the United States. His book Modern Criminal Procedure, now
in its 8th edition, is the most widely used text in United States' law schools.
His treatises on criminal procedure and criminal law are cited repeatedly by
scholars and courts, and are part of the essential library of criminal lawyers
and scholars in every part of the country. His teaching has commanded the
respect and admiration of thousands of Michigan law students who practice
throughout the United States and the world, and who continue to rely upon
his counsel and judgment.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his
long service to the University of Michigan by naming Jerold H. Israel
professor emeritus of law and the Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor
Emeritus of Law.
Kenneth D. McClatchey, M.D., D.D.S., professor of pathology,
Medical School, and professor of dentistry, School of Dentistry, retired from
active faculty status on June 30, 1996.
Born in Detroit, Dr. McClatchey was educated at the University of
Michigan, where he received his B.S. (1964), D.D.S. (1968), M.S. (1971), and
M.D. (1975) degrees. Dr. McClatchey was assistant professor in residence in
the Department of Oral Pathology in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine at
the University of California at San Francisco from 1971-72 prior to returning
to the University of Michigan to attend medical school. From 1973-78, Dr.
McClatchey held an appointment in the School of Dentistry as lecturer in the
Department of Oral Pathology. In 1975, he entered the residency training
program in the Department of Pathology. He completed his training and was
certified by the American Board of Pathology in anatomic and clinical
pathology in 1978. He was also certified in oral pathology by the American
Board of Oral Pathology in 1973.
Dr. McClatchey joined the faculty as assistant professor in the
Department of Pathology in 1978. He was promoted to associate professor of
pathology in 1982, associate professor of dentistry, School of Dentistry, in
1985, professor of pathology in 1988, and professor of dentistry in 1994. He
has also held joint appointments in the School of Dentistry and the


85




September Meeting, 1996


Department of Otorhinolaryngology. Dr. McClatchey served as associate
chair of the Department of Pathology from 1982-91, as well as director of the
clinical laboratories from  1987-91.  He was the director of the Clinical
Microbiology/Virology Laboratory from  1978 until May 1996.    From
September 1990 to June 1995, he served as associate chief of clinical affairs in
the University Hospital.
Dr. McClatchey was the department's specialist in the field of oral and
forensic pathology and in clinical microbiology/virology. He has received
numerous awards from the Medical School, School of Dentistry, and national
organizations. He was active in the College of American Pathologists, and has
served on its board of governors since 1993.
The Regents salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Kenneth D. McClatchey professor emeritus of pathology and
professor emeritus of dentistry.
William G. Moller, Jr., associate professor of business administration,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996.
Professor Moller received his B.Chem.Eng. degree in 1953 from
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and his M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1962 and 1969, respectively. He was a lecturer in
marketing from 1966-67 and then went to Syracuse University, where he
served as assistant professor from 1967-72. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as associate professor of business administration in 1972.
From 1972-84, he also played a strong administrative role in the School of
Business Administration, first as assistant to the dean, and then as assistant
dean (1975) and associate dean (1980).
In 1984, Professor Moller rejoined the faculty ranks where he taught
marketing and international business courses and served in several important
national professional capacities, most recently on the Michigan District
Export Council, an appointment by the secretary of the U.S. Department of
Commerce.    Professor Moller has a long and distinguished record of
administrative service to higher education, as well as a legion of students who
have benefited from his teaching and advising.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William G.
Moller, Jr., associate professor emeritus of business administration.
Sarah Winans Newman, professor of anatomy and cell biology, retired
from active faculty status on August 31, 1996, after a distinguished career of
teaching, research, and service.
Professor Newman received her B.A. degree in 1963 and her Ph.D.
degree in 1969, both from Cornell University. After serving as an instructor
in anatomy at the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New
York from 1968-70, she came to the University of Michigan in 1970 as
assistant professor of anatomy. She was promoted to associate professor in
1975 and professor in 1983. Professor Newman also served as acting chair of
the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology from 1983-86 and as associate
vice president for research from 1991-94.
Within the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Professor Newman
taught neuroanatomy and gross anatomy to both medical and graduate
students. The outstanding quality of her teaching is reflected in her having


86




September Meeting, 1996


been awarded every major teaching honor that the Medical School bestows,
including the Elizabeth C. Crosby Award for Excellence in Teaching (1973),
the Golden Apple Award from the medical class of 1977, and the Kaiser
Permanente Award for Excellence in Teaching of the Basic Sciences (1986).
She also received the University's Distinguished Service Award in 1975.
Professor Newman is co-author of a well-known neuroanatomy textbook,
and is an internationally recognized scientist in the field of reproductive
neuroscience. She has made many important contributions, both through
articles in the scientific literature and through her highly successful training
of Ph.D. students. Her service to the University has been extraordinary in
many capacities and at many levels, from departmental committee service to
her work as associate vice president for research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for
her dedicated service by naming Sarah Winans Newman professor emerita of
anatomy and cell biology.
Georgeana R. Nowoc, senior associate librarian, retired from the
University of Michigan-Flint Library on June 12, 1996.
Ms. Nowoc received her B.A. and A.M.L.S. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1964 and 1966, respectively.  She joined the staff of the
University of Michigan-Flint Library in 1977, having served previously as
reference librarian at the Mott Community College Library. From 1977-1992,
Ms. Nowoc served as head of the library's public services department. She
reduced her appointment to half-time in July 1992.
In addition to regular shifts at the library's busy reference desk, Ms.
Nowoc was responsible for supervising and scheduling the reference
department's professional, office/ clerical, and student staff. She also served
as liaison to the University's English, foreign languages, and theatre
departments, an important aspect of which was working with those
departments on book and periodical selection. As a result of Ms. Nowoc's two
decades of consistent and close attention, the library collections are
particularly strong in those subject areas. Until 1992, Ms. Nowac was also
responsible for coordinating the library's interlibrary loan work, a task which
entailed cultivating cooperative working relationships with local, state, and
national library collections. Her other major responsibility involved the
selection of gift books and periodicals, a task that had taken on increasing
importance as the Flint campus sought to deepen and broaden its very young
library collection in the new, larger Thompson Library.
Among her special achievements was Ms. Nowoc's key role in the
establishment of the Flint campus' original library collection. She had the
unique opportunity to help create a collection from the ground up, and the
special responsibility of building its reference collection and services. Under
her supervision, the library's reference collection has become the most
comprehensive, current, and well-maintained in the University's service
region. Ms. Nowoc's dedicated, patient, and consistent work has contributed
substantially to the excellence of that collection. She has touched and,
through that excellent collection, will continue to touch the intellectual lives
of the thousands of students and hundreds of faculty who consult the holdings
of the Thompson Library.


87




September Meeting, 1996


The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian for her dedicated
service by naming Georgeana R. Nowoc senior associate librarian emerita.
Anita H. Payne, professor of biological chemistry and professor of
biological chemistry in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, retired from active faculty status on July 31, 1996, after a most
productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Born in Karlsruhe, Germany, Professor Payne received her B.A. degree
in 1949 and her Ph.D. degree in 1952, both from the University of California,
Berkeley. From 1952-53, she was a physiologist at the Donner Laboratory of
Medical Physics at the University of California, Berkeley, during which time
she received the Award for Cancer Research from the California Institute for
Cancer Research.
Professor Payne joined the University of Michigan in 1961 as a research
associate in the Department of Biological Chemistry. She was appointed
research associate in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in 1969
and, from 1970-71, held the title of associate research biochemist. She was
appointed assistant professor of biological chemistry in the Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology in 1971; was promoted to associate professor in
1976; and, in 1981, was named to her professorship in biological chemistry in
the Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Biological Chemistry.
Professor Payne's research has focused on steroid hormone biosynthesis
and steroidogenic enzymes in Leydig cells. She is recognized internationally
as an expert in this area and has continually received extramural funding
throughout her career to pursue her research endeavors. In recognition of
her outstanding work, in 1986 Professor Payne received the University's
Academic Women's Caucus Award for leadership, scholarship, and impact on
the betterment of women. She has been active in the Society for the Study of
Reproduction, having held a number of offices, including president from
1990-91. Professor Payne has also served on a multitude of University and
Medical School committees, and played a major role in the establishment of
the Reproductive Sciences Program.   In her honor, the Anita Payne
Lectureship in Reproductive Science was established in 1993 in the
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist for her dedicated
service by naming Anita H. Payne professor emerita of biological chemistry
and professor emerita of biological chemistry in the Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Wesley D. Rae, professor of English at the University of Michigan-Flint,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1996, after a distinguished
career as a teacher, scholar, and department and campus leader.
Professor Rae received his B.S. degree from North Dakota State
University in 1954 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Wisconsin in 1957 and 1961, respectively. After serving on the faculty of
Syracuse University from 1961-69, he joined the faculty of the UM-Flint as
associate professor of English in 1969. He was promoted to professor in 1972.
Professor Rae's administrative appointments include service as acting
dean and then dean of academic affairs (1974-75), dean of the College of Arts
and Sciences (1975-79), acting dean of the School of Management (1975-76),


88




September Meeting, 1996


and three terms as chair of the Department of English. He also served on the
CAS executive committee, on most standing committees of the college, and on
numerous search committees.
Professor Rae's area of specialization is the Renaissance in England, with
a secondary interest in Greek and Roman literature. For the past 27 years,
he has been an inspiration to students, who have flocked to his courses in
Shakespeare and in the classics. Students have recognized him twice with the
Distinguished Professor Award (1976 and 1986), and he received the Faculty
Award for Teaching Excellence in 1992. His interest in the Renaissance
resulted in a book-length study of Thomas Lodge. His experience in teaching
Shakespeare's history plays led to the development of a database containing
every character in the history plays, complete with their genealogy. This is a
massive undertaking which he will continue to pursue during retirement.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service and many accomplishments by naming Wesley D. Rae
professor emeritus of English.
Frank C. Richardson, professor of French, German and comparative
literature and acting chair, Department of Foreign Languages, College of Arts
and Sciences, University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status
on June 30, 1996, following a distinguished, 40-year career spanning the
entire history of the Flint campus.
Born in Virginia, Professor Richardson received his A.B. degree in 1950,
his M.A. degree in 1953, and his Ph.D. degree in 1960, all from the University
of Michigan. A true Renaissance scholar, he studied in Grenoble, France, in
1951-52 and Tubingen, Germany, in 1954-55. He joined the faculty of the
UM-Flint, when it opened in 1956, as an instructor in French and German.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1964,
and professor in 1969. He also served as chair of the Department of Foreign
Languages for 15 years.
Some of Professor Richardson's outstanding achievements over the past
40 years include a French government assistantship in Albertville, France
(1950-51); Fulbright Awards at the University of Grenoble in France
(1950-51) and the University of Tubingen in Germany (1954-55); and the
UM-Flint's Excellence in Teaching Award (1984). He served on the C.A.S.
Executive Committee for twelve years, the Curriculum Committee for 15
years, and taught general literature for ten years to nontraditional students.
He founded UM-Flint Honors Program and served as its chair for twelve
years, and also founded the Comparative Literature Program. He was a
member of the advisory committee for three chancellors, a Big Brothers
sponsor, chair of the county branch of the A.C.L.U. for five years, and
currently serves as treasurer of the A.A.U.P. He also served three times as
chair of the governing faculty assembly, chaired implementation of the
current general education requirements, and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service and many accomplishments by naming Frank C. Richardson
professor emeritus of French, German, and Comparative Literature.
W. Allen Spivey, professor of statistics and Clare E. Griffin Professor of
Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996.


89




September Meeting, 1996


Professor Spivey received his A.B. degree in 1950, his M.A. degree in
1952, and his Ph.D. degree in 1956, all from the University of North Carolina.
He was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of North Carolina and at
Stanford University prior to joining the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor in 1957. He was promoted to associate professor in 1959
and professor in 1962 and was named to the Griffin professorship in 1978.
Professor Spivey also served as associate vice president for academic affairs
from 1981-83. He has held visiting appointments at the London School of
Economics, Harvard University, and Kyoto University.
A recipient of the University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award
(1971), Professor Spivey's long and distinguished career also includes being
named a fellow of the American Statistical Association, as well as membership
on the National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council, chair of the
American Statistical Association's Business and Economics Statistics Section,
board membership with the International Institute of Forecasters, and
publication of numerous refereed articles and eight books.
Professor Spivey has contributed cogently to the forecasting literature
with applied and theoretical work and he has mentored many students in the
area of business forecasting and time series analysis. His interest in global
strategic management concepts and his professional contacts in Europe and
Asia have made him an invaluable asset to the school's growing presence and
interest in international business education. He was instrumental in the
development and implementation of our program in the Leonardo da Vinci
University in Paris, where he continues to play an active role. His retirement
merely signals a new phase in his relationship to the school, in which it
expects to continue to benefit from his breadth of experience and expertise.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming W. Allen Spivey
professor emeritus of statistics and the Clare E. Griffin Professor Emeritus
of Business Administration.
Edward G. Voss, professor of botany and curator of vascular plants,
retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1996.
Professor Voss received his B.A. degree from Denison University in 1950
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1951 and
1954, respectively. He joined the University in 1956 as a research associate at
the Herbarium and was appointed assistant professor of botany in 1960. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1963, professor in 1969, and has served
as curator of vascular plants since 1961.
Professor Voss' principal research project has been the preparation of his!
three-volume series, Michigan Flora, which is the first comprehensive guide
to the native and naturalized seed-plants of Michigan. To produce these books,
Professor Voss has spent over 40 years collecting extensively throughout the
state and examining essentially all of the herbarium specimens collected by his
predecessors. Interpretation of those early collections required a review of the
history of botanical exploration in the region, and the resulting publications
thus represent a significant contribution to the Michigan historical literature.
As a result of his efforts, Michigan now has the best regional flora books in
the country, as recognized by his receipt of the Henry Allan Gleason Award
from the New York Botanical Garden in 1986. The third and final volume of
the Flora series will be published late in 1996.


90




September Meeting, 1996


In his role as the leading authority on a large flora in an era of growing
awareness of and interest in threatened biological diversity, Professor Voss
has long been active in and in demand as a speaker for numerous organizations
concerned with conservation and natural history.  His enthusiasm  and
communication skills have also brought him great success as a teacher. He has
introduced generations of biologists to field botany at the UM Biological
Station at Douglas Lake, where they absorbed his encyclopedic knowledge
even as they sank into the bogs, swatted the mosquitoes, and groaned at his
puns.
Beyond Michigan, Professor Voss is known throughout the world for his
expertise in plant nomenclature, the esoteric body of rules and traditions that
govern the naming of plants. Mention his name in Paris, Berlin, or Sydney
and the smiles of recognition will be accompanied by anecdotes about his able
leadership through the thickets of thorny nomenclatural problems.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edward G. Voss
professor emeritus of botany and curator emeritus of vascular plants.
Degrees. The president submitted recommendations for recipients of
honorary degrees.
Vice President Kinnear announced that Preston R. Tisch had made a
commitment of $7.2 million for support of the humanities wing of Angell
Hall and the Tennis Center.
Consent agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was taken.
Investments at June 30, 1996
Executive Vice President Womack called on Associate Vice President
and Treasurer Norman Herbert to present the report on the University's
invested funds as of June 30, 1996. He expounded on the descriptions and
returns of the portfolios described in the Regents Communication; these
include the University Endowment Fund, the Business School Growth Fund,
the Donor Pooled Income Fund, the Charitable Remainder Trusts, the
University Investment Pool, the Veritas Insurance Corporation, the Long
Term Portfolio, and Funds in Trust.
Associate Vice President Herbert compared the Long Term Portfolio and
the Donor Pooled Income Fund, noting that the former had returned 17.8
percent and the latter had provided a return of 12.8 percent, and that both
had met the goal of adding real value over inflation and distribution. He
described the different investment objectives and strategies of each fund,
noting that while the Long Term Portfolio has a more aggressive and
diversified investment strategy, there have been periods when the Donor
Pooled Income Fund has yielded higher returns. Nevertheless, he reported
that the Long Term Portfolio is better positioned to weather future markets,
and it is expected that it will provide superior long-term performance.
Associate Vice President Herbert observed that "Farris Womack
deserves much of the credit for the confidence with which we face the
future." He thanked Executive Vice President Womack for the "superb
91




September Meeting, 1996


leadership" he has provided for the University's investment program. "On
his watch," he noted, "the investment program has tripled in size from $1
billion to just under $3 billion; the endowment has increased fivefold from
$300 million to $1.6 billion,..., and we have reduced endowment
distributions to a more prudent, sustainable level from 5.5 percent to 5.1
percent, and we're confident that we will achieve the goal of a 5.0 percent
distribution well ahead of schedule." Mr. Herbert concluded that "the
investment program meets the needs of the educational units while
appropriately  maximizing  the  investment  opportunities  from  a
university-wide perspective."
Regent McFee observed that she had found attending the meetings of
the Investment Advisory Committee to be a most enjoyable and educational
experience, and that the establishment of this committee and results of its
work is another tribute to Dr. Womack's leadership.
1996-97 Budgets
The Regents received the Budget Book for fiscal year 1996-97. This is a
formal compilation of the budget approved in July 1996.
Small-Capitalization Common Stock Manager
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Skyline Asset Management as an
investment manager. Regents Newman and Deitch were not present when the
vote was taken.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of $10.0 million of the Long
Term Portfolio to Natural Gas Partners IV, L.P., pending favorable review of
the documents for their legal acceptability by the Office of the General
Counsel. Regents Newman and Deitch were not present when the vote was
taken.
Ann Arbor Township Utility Dedication and Easement
Regent Horning moved authorization for the executive vice president
and chief financial officer to dedicate the utilities for the Primary Care
Facility to Ann Arbor Township and to grant an easement to the township
for maintenance of the system, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regents Newman and Deitch were not present when the vote was taken.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) renovations to
the tunnel between the Central Power Plant and the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, as described in the Regents Communication; 2)
replacement of expansion joints and domestic hot water piping in the tunnel
serving the Michigan Union building and the West Quadrangle building; 3)


92




September Meeting, 1996


remodeling of space in the North University Building to create anthropology
laboratories; 4) remodeling of space in the Space Research Building to
establish a global change laboratory; and 5) exterior restoration of the
president's residence. Regents Deitch, Newman, and Varner were not present
when the vote was taken.
Michigan Health Corporation Business Plan
Executive Vice President Womack noted that the formation of a
business plan for Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) had been promised
when the establishment of the corporation had initially been approved by the
Regents in December 1994. This is a request to approve the concept, plan,
and process for MHC to receive initial capitalization to implement the
business plan as outlined in the Regents Communication, and to amend the
MHC bylaws to add the University of Michigan provost as a director on the
MHC board. Executive Vice President Womack also suggested that the
bylaws might have to be amended again in the future to provide for the
executive vice president for medical affairs to also sit on the board.
Regent McGowan requested that separate financial statements for MHC
be presented annually to the Board of Regents to enable them to provide
proper oversight. Executive Vice President Womack responded that the
intent is to provide financial statements in a fashion similar to those
provided for M-Care and Veritas.
In response to a question from Regent Deitch about the current status
of relationships between the Medical System and other recently formed
alliances, Executive Vice President Womack stated he would communicate
directly with the Regents in the form of a letter. Executive Vice President
Womack also noted that it had not been determined how the capitalization
would be treated. It may be treated either as an equity or as a loan to MHC;
his current thinking is that it would be a loan.
Following some discussion, Regent Baker moved approval of the
concept, plan, and process for MHC to receive initial capitalization to
implement the business plan and to have authority to take all actions
necessary and appropriate to establish and operate the proposed and future
projects, and to approve amendment of the bylaws of MHC to add the
University of Michigan provost as a director on the board of MHC. Regent
McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The text of
the business plan can be found with the Regents Communication.
Regent Newman was not present when the vote was taken and
remained absent for the remainder of the meeting.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1997
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following revised schedule of meetings for 1997:
January 23-24               July 17-18
February 20-21              August no meeting
March 13*-14                September 18-19


93




September Meeting, 1996


April 17-18                 October 16**-17
May 8-9                     November 20-21
June 19-20                  December 18-19
t*   Held at UM-Dearborn
**   Held at UM-Flint
Recommendations for Honorary Degrees
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents approved the following recommendations for the award of honorary
degrees: Sandra Day O'Connor, Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court (Doctor
of Laws); Robert Altman, American filmmaker (Doctor of Fine Arts); John
Pickering, senior counsel, Witmer, Cutler & Pickering (Doctor of Laws); Vera
Rubin, astronomer (Doctor of Science).
The meeting then recessed at 11:55 a.m.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened at 2:00 p.m. and heard comments from the
following individuals on the topics indicated: Donald E. Jahncke, faculty
member, in favor of the new format for WUOM/WFUM/WVGR-FM radio
stations; Audrey L. Jackson, citizen, on the effect the proposed city income
tax would have on University of Michigan students; and Helmut Schick, staff
member, and Richard Taylor, citizen, in opposition to the new format for
WUOM/WFUM/WVGR-FM radio stations.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned following
public comments. The next meeting is scheduled for October 17-18, 1996.
Regents' expenses recorded in July 1996 totaled $980.73, and expenses
recorded in August 1996 totaled $537.35.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


94




SPECIAL MEETING, OCTOBER 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
October 1, 1996
The Regents met at 7:25 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner.
Also present were Vice President Harrison, Provost Machen, Secretary
Palmer, General Counsel Cole, and Attorneys Ellsworth and Cohan. Regent
McFee, Interim President Neal, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice
Presidents Hartford, Kinnear, and Neidhardt, and Chancellors Nelms and
Renick were absent.
Regent Baker called the meeting to order and read the following
statement on behalf of the Board:
Former President James Duderstadt's execution of employment
agreements with some University executive officers without full
disclosure to the Board of Regents has attracted considerable public
interest and has raised significant issues of policy and process. At our
regular meeting on September 20, 1997, we expressed our concern
about these agreements.
Some months ago, the Regents engaged the law firms of
Dickinson, Wright and Barris, Sott, Denn & Driker to act as independent counsel to the Board on a variety of matters. The Regents
have forwarded these seven employment agreements to our independent counsel for review of their circumstances.
The Regents are also considering the policy framework within
which a modern compensation structure can be crafted, in public.
Once this has been done, the Regents look forward to working with
Interim President Neal, University human resources staff, and if
necessary, independent compensation consultants. The objective is to
continue to enable the University to attract, motivate, and retain the
best possible people to senior management positions, but at the same
time to set in place a reasonable compensation program which is
rigorous and formal and is not subject to unilateral interpretation
and execution.
The duty of the Board of Regents is to prudently and fully
examine the facts of these matters and then to take actions appropriate
to those facts. The Regents take their responsibilities very seriously.
We intend to move forward promptly to resolve these issues and to
report timely to the University community and the people of Michigan.
Regent Varner noted that the presidential search process adopted by the
Board states that "neither the PSC nor its individual members will communicate
on this subject with the PSAC or its individual members or the search
consultant (unless such communications are made public) except to offer
nominations until the PSAC submits its report to the PSC."
95




Special Meeting, October 1, 1996


In keeping with these rules, she announced for the record that she had
spoken with the search consultant following the last Regents' Meeting to see
whether he felt he could be helpful to the Board in structuring the next phase
of the search process. The consultant responded that the primary consideration
was for the Board to devise a process that works best for it, and therefore he
did not believe his input would be necessary.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Baker then called on Regent Horning, who made the following
motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on October 1, 1996, for the purpose of considering material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion
from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


96




SPECIAL MEETING, OCTOBER 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
October 14, 1996
The Regents met at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and
Varner. Also present were Interim President Neal, Provost Machen, Vice
Presidents Harrison, Kinnear, and Neidhardt, Secretary Palmer, General
Counsel Cole, and Attorneys Ellsworth and Cohan. Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice President Hartford, and Chancellors Nelms and Renick were
absent.
Executive Session Motion
Interim President Neal called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Baker, who read the following resolution:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on October 14, 1996, for the purpose of consulting with our
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


97




SPECIAL MEETING, OCTOBER 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
October 29, 1996
The Regents met at 9:40 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and
Varner. Interim President Neal, Vice President Neidhardt, General Counsel
Cole, and Secretary Palmer were also present.
Executive Session Motion
Interim President Neal called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Deitch, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on October 29, 1996, in the Regents' Room, for the
purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation
(section 8e) and of considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (section 8h).
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Interim President Neal announced that he was distributing a draft of an
action request regarding the creation of the position of executive vice
president for medical affairs, in anticipation of this being brought to the
Board for action at a later date.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


99




SPECIAL MEETING, NOVEMBER 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
November 12, 1996
The Regents met at 2:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Interim
President Neal and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner.
Comments by Interim President Neal
Interim President Neal called the meeting to order. Speaking for himself
as well as the University community, he thanked Jeffrey Lehman and the
Presidential Search Advisory Committee for their efforts on behalf of the
institution. He also congratulated the Board of Regents and co-chairs McFee
and Varner for their attempts to involve all of the stakeholders of the
University in the presidential search process, and for the confidence they had
placed in faculty, staff, students, and alumni. He noted that all had observed
and had been touched by how much the Regents care for the University,
especially at the meeting during which the Presidential Search Committee had
received the report of the Presidential Search Advisory Committee. Finally, he
congratulated the Regents "for having the courage to unite and do what is best
for the University."
He then called on Regent Varner to present the report of the Presidential
Search Committee.
Report of the Presidential Search Committee
Regent Varner stated, "On behalf of the Presidential Search Committee, I
submit to the Board of Regents the nomination of Lee C. Bollinger as the
twelfth president of the University of Michigan in accordance with the terms
and conditions that have been agreed upon and which will be attached to the
minutes of this meeting." (See Appendix A, page 105)
Regent McFee seconded the motion. The vote was then taken and the
motion was approved unanimously. There followed a standing ovation and a
round of applause, after which President-Elect Bollinger and his wife, Jean
Bollinger, were invited to the table.
Regent Baker commented that he wished him well and was sorry he would
not have the opportunity to serve with him. He observed that in his 24 years
on the Board, "Robben Fleming had left a great platform for Harold Shapiro,
and Harold Shapiro left a great platform for Jim Duderstadt, and all of those
have combined to leave a great platform for you to begin and expand and be the
president of this great and wonderful institution."
Regent McFee noted that she was "extremely pleased that you are going to
be with us" and that she was looking forward to at least two more years of
working with the Bollingers.


101




Special Meeting, November 12, 1996


Regent McGowan said that she "shares the joy and satisfaction with this
University in seeing you both here, and its wonderful having you both back."
Regent Horning thanked Interim President Neal and his wife Jeannie for
the leadership they've provided. He welcomed the Bollingers, noting that "its a
great day for Michigan" and offering any assistance he could provide.
Regent Newman also thanked the Neals for their continuing service,
commenting that they have been "absolutely terrific in a really tough
situation." She welcomed the Bollingers and noted the great outpouring of
emotion and excitement that had been elicited by the news that they would be
returning to the University. She thanked them for accepting and said that she
looked forward to their imminent return.
Regent Deitch associated himself with the previous remarks, and said,
"Welcome home."
Regent Power had no comment. Regent Varner told Mr. Bollinger that she
was delighted that he would be the University's next president. She noted that
this would be her last "big act" before leaving the Board, and that she "couldn't
think of anything she would rather have it be." She welcomed him back on
behalf of the entire University community, and also thanked Interim President
and Mrs. Neal for their service.
Interim President Neal told the Bollingers that he and his wife were
extremely happy for them. He welcomed them back to Ann Arbor, noting that
they will be taking charge of one of the world's greatest universities that "you
will need the love, care vision, and leadership that I think you can so uniquely
provide." He offered the assistance of all of the executive officers in making the
transition and wished them "all the luck in the world."
President-Elect Bollinger then made the following comments:
I accept this position with the deepest emotions, close to those
connected with family. And, as the years of our collective service to
this great University roll by, this abiding affection we all share
should be our bond and the source of our decisions and of our
treatment of each other. In my meeting with you just over a week
ago, I referred to an idea of Edmund Burke. Now I can quote it
accurately: 'To be attached to the subdivision, to love the little platoon
we belong to in society, is the first principle (the germ as it were) of
public affections. It is the first link in a series by which we proceed
towards a love of our country and to mankind.'
So it is that our 'attachment' to this University is a stem of all
meaningful branching relationships.  And in this increasingly
cosmopolitan world, in which loyalty to discipline rather than to
place is always in the ascendancy, Burke's idea of the spiraling
importance of affections, beginning with our feelings towards our
'platoon,' makes our love for Michigan intelligible and
consequential, a matter of public service.
There are special moments in life when we feel we see more
clearly and more deeply into the truth of things. I feel this is such a
102




Special Meeting, November 12, 1996


moment for me, and I hope it is for the University. If this is such an
occasion, then we ought to make every effort to hold onto this clarity
of understanding, as the daily cares will inevitably threaten to
overwhelm us in the years ahead. To this end we might employ as a
point of reference a little poem, 'Spring Pools,' written by the great
American-and great University of Michigan-poet, Robert Frost; a
poem, by the way, he composed in Ann Arbor.
Just after the last snow has melted, the poem says, small
pools of water form and, in the still leafless forests, they reflect 'the
total sky almost without defect.' Such near-perfect vision, however,
is fleeting, for the trees 'have it in their pent-up buds/To darken
nature and be summer woods-.' The roots will 'blot out and drink
up and sweep away' these momentary pools of sight. 'Let them think
twice,' the poem warns, before they 'bring dark foliage on' to destroy
these 'flowery waters' 'from snow that melted only yesterday.'
I would like to think that today is at least my 'spring pool,'
and with Frost's exquisite sense of poignancy I want to say to the
inevitable burdens and cares of the years ahead, 'Let them think
twice before they use their powers' 'to bring dark foliage on.'
I am grateful to you and the University for giving me this
opportunity to serve the University of Michigan.
I would like, if I might, to introduce my wife, Jean Magnano
Bollinger. Jean is originally from Seattle. She also, happily, attended
the University of Oregon, after which she did graduate work at
Columbia University (receiving a master's degree). When we moved to
Ann Arbor in 1973, Jean took classes in art and in psychology. Her
major achievement in the early 1980s was as one of the four principal
founders of the Ann Arbor Hands-on Museum, where she served as
associate director following its opening.
In the mid-1980s, Jean decided to become a full-time
practicing artist, which she has pursued ever since (including a period
of time as a special student in the art school at the University). Before
leaving Ann Arbor in 1994, she had a studio in Dexter, and now she is
located in Lebanon, New Hampshire. Her awards and shows are 'too
numerous to mention,' if I may say so.
There followed a round of applause, after which the meeting was
adjourned at 2:30 p.m. Following the meeting there was a press conference and
public reception at the Michigan Union.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


103




SPECIAL MEETING, NOVEMBER 1996
APPENDIX A
November 12, 1996
Lee C. Bollinger
614 Bragg Hill
Norwich, VT 05055
Dear Lee:
This letter is to confirm the terms and conditions of your appointment as president of
the University of Michigan.
*    You will take office at the first year salary of $275,000.00. Subject to
satisfactory performance, your initial appointment shall be for a term of five
years. A yearly salary review with appropriate increases will accompany
your annual performance review by the Regents. A full review of your
performance will be made prior to a renewal determination after five years.
You will perform all duties and services and receive all benefits traditionally
associated with the presidency of the University of Michigan.
*    In addition to direct compensation, you will be eligible for the Academic
Administrative Benefits package which is the same package which you
participated in while dean of the Law School.
*    It is anticipated that you and your family will live in the presidential
residence on South University Avenue. The University will continue to
undertake all repairs and renovations and to retain such housekeeping staff
as is necessary and reasonable to maintain the house and carry out official
University functions.
*    You will receive an automobile provided in accordance with University
guidelines for your business and personal use. A driver will be available
through Transportation Services with service billed on an hourly basis to
the President's Office.
*    At any time during the term of your presidency or, if you return to the
faculty in Ann Arbor, within three months of the end of your term, the
University will pay for allowable moving expenses related to your relocation
to Ann Arbor up to a maximum of one month of your beginning base salary.
In addition, the University will provide a one-time payment to cover
transition expenses in the amount of $30,000.
*    It is expected that you will utilize the University mortgage program at the
same rates available to other University employees to cover the mortgage of
your current home in Norwich, Vermont. It is understood that should you
leave the University, the balance of the mortgage will be due within 180
days.
*    Although Jean, as the spouse of the president, will not receive direct
compensation, in recognition of her contribution to the University, when
she travels on behalf of the University, her travel expenses will be fully
reimbursed.
*    Acceptance of external assignments involving service on corporate boards
shall be accepted only after discussion with and approval by the Board of
Regents. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.


105




Special Meeting, November 1996 - Appendix A


*    As president of the university, you will have two funds available for your
use, The Presidential Initiatives Fund, which is subject to certain guidelines,
and The Presidential Discretionary Fund. Although these funds are part of
the Presidential Office budget and are subject to normal annual review and
annual audit reports which are provided to the Regents, they are earmarked
to carry out the objectives of the President.
*    Upon acceptance of the presidency, your tenure in the Law School and the
associated rights and privileges will be restored. Should you step down from
the presidency at any time after five years of service, you will be eligible for
a one-year leave paid at the presidential salary at that time. Thereafter, you
may return to the Law School as a faculty member receiving compensation
appropriate for a senior faculty member. Some additional staff support may
be made available to ease the transition from presidency to faculty status.
We look forward to working with you in the near future.
Sincerely,


Deane Baker


Rebecca McGowan


Laurence B. Deitch


Andrea Fischer Newman


Daniel D. Horning


Philip H. Power


Shirley M. McFee


Nellie M. Varner


The above terms and conditions are acceptable.


Lee C. Bollinger


106




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 14, 1996
The Regents met at 1:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Interim
President Neal and Regents Baker, Homing, McFee, McGowan, Newman,
Power, and Varner. Also present were Executive Vice President Womack,
Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neidhardt,
Chancellor Renick, and Secretary Palmer. Provost Robert Desmond attended in
the stead of Chancellor Nelms, who was absent. Regent Deitch was also absent.
Interim President Neal called the meeting to order and acknowledged
the presence of Regent Elect Olivia P. Maynard, whose tenure will begin on
January 1, 1997. Ms. Maynard received a round of applause.
Ernst & Young LLP Management Report With University Responses
Interim President Neal called on Executive Vice President Womack, who
introduced Mr. Bob Emde, the engagement partner for Ernst & Young, along
with Harold Miller of Ernst & Young and George Johnson, managing partner
of George Johnson and Company. Mr. Emde also recognized the efforts of
University Auditor Carl Smith, who has worked closely with Ernst & Young
in performing the audits.
Mr. Emde noted that the management report expresses an unqualified
opinion, and that there were no unadjusted audit differences that would have
had a material effect on the financial statements of the several funds that
comprise the University's financial statements. Mr. Emde noted that Ernst &
Young LLP had also audited and issued unqualified reports on the separate
financial statements for the Clinical Delivery System, Dental Faculty Associates,
the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, the Executive Education Center
of the School of Business Administration, M-Care, and Veritas, as well as three
units not included in the University's combined financial statements: the Alumni
Association, the William Davidson Institute, and the University Musical Society.
Mr. Emde noted that the 1996 Management Letter concludes that the
review of the internal control structure in use at the University of Michigan
disclosed no material weaknesses in procedures and control. In fact, he
observed that Ernst & Young believes that procedures and controls "are pretty
good," and the recommendations set forth in that letter are intended as
constructive suggestions to further strengthen the University's procedures and
controls. He noted that in each instance, the University has concurred with the
recommendations, and that the auditors believe the responses are appropriate.
He pointed out that Ernst & Young also reviews the regular six month report of
internal audits, and that they are comfortable that appropriate follow-up action
has and continues to be taken on important control and procedural matters.
Regent Power noted that the major issue in the management letter had to
do with nonmonetary matters and asked for more information about these


107




November Meeting, 1996


transactions. Mr. Emde responded that the single largest such transaction
that came to the attention of the auditors had to do with the Department of
Intercollegiate Athletics' contract with Nike. The nonmonetary aspects of that
contract have been appropriately reported and accounted for in the financial
statements.
Regent Power told the auditor that he and his colleagues should not
hesitate to contact any of the Regents at any time if they deem it necessary.
Mr. Emde responded that to date there has been no situation that has required
such contact.
1998 State Budget Request-Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Machen reported that the 1996-97 budget request was actually
submitted last year as part of a proposed biannual process. The current request
is in response to a request to provide a supplement to that submission.
The document requests an increase at a rate at least equal to the rate of
inflation; it describes the University's ongoing cost-containment efforts; and
it requests two supplemental appropriations: $3 million to strengthen the
undergraduate educational programs by providing faculty-directed research
projects for undergraduate students and $1.5 million for improving undergraduate science and technology education.
Regent Newman commented about the format of the request, noting that
it might be helpful if it were more specific in terms of dollar amounts
requested. Provost Machen and Vice President Harrison responded that the
directions given for submission of the request were very general, and that
dollar amounts are provided in other documents submitted to the legislature.
1998 State Budget Request-Dearborn Campus
Chancellor Renick reviewed the Dearborn Campus' budget request,
noting that it reflects three priorities: 1) maintenance of quality educational
programming; 2) enhancement of technology-based programs; and 3) increase
in faculty to support growth. The total incremental amount requested is
$3,015,000.
1998 State Budget Request-Flint Campus
Provost Desmond noted that the Flint Campus is requesting an increase
at the rate of inflation to maintain current operations ($570,000), as well as
three other priorities: 1) improvements in information technology capabilities
($860,000); 2) managing and improving enrollments ($275,000); and 3) the
development of new graduate programs that are responsive to community
needs ($480,000).
Report of the Child Care Task Force
Provost Machen observed that as a result of a June 1996 student
referendum supporting an increase in student fees for the purpose of child
care for students, the Board had requested the formation of a task force to
study the child care needs of faculty, students, and staff. The complexity of
the issue precluded the development of a comprehensive plan in time for this


108




November Meeting, 1996


meeting, so the interim report addresses only student issues. He then called
on Dean Ada Sue Hinshaw, chair of the task force.
Dean Hinshaw noted that the charge to the committee had been to develop
a University-wide approach to child care for faculty, staff, and students and to
recommend a priority for this approach in terms of resource allocations. The
interim report addresses the charge focusing on child care for student parents:
1) to review the proposed student child care fee suggested by the Michigan
Student Assembly and to recommend a plan to both utilize and leverage the
funds generated by that fee; and 2) to assess the needs of student parents for
accessible and affordable child care. Dean Hinshaw emphasized the priority the
task force had placed on being responsive to the leadership taken and concerns
evidenced by students in their March 1996 vote to assess a child care fee.
Dean Hinshaw noted that the task force focused specifically on student
scholarship or assistance programs at other major, public universities. The
two programs studied most closely were those in place at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Iowa, and after comparing all of
the variables, task force members came to the conclusion that the program at
the University of Wisconsin-Madison matches most closely the needs and
situation at the University of Michigan.
The recommendation being proposed by the task force, patterned after
the scholarship program in place at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, is a
one-one match of the funding that students have voted to assess themselves,
with the match being drawn from the University's General Fund. Based on
an enrollment of at least 36,500 students, the proposed fee of $1.00 per student
per term, combined with an equal match from the General Fund, would yield
about $145,000-$150,000 per year for child care assistance for student parents.
The program would be administered by the Office of Financial Aid and
the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, and distribution of the
scholarships would be need-based. Payments would be made directly to the
child care provider, which would be required to be state-licensed or registered.
An advisory committee would be appointed to oversee the program. It is
anticipated that 140-150 scholarships of $900-$1200 each could be awarded
per year. Dean Hinshaw emphasized that the magnitude of the need at the
University of Michigan, both in terms of the number of student parents who
need assistance or the type of care needed, is unknown. Therefore, it is
important to remain flexible in setting the exact scholarship amounts.
Dean Hinshaw commented that the Office of Financial Aid is prepared
to implement this program for student parents during the winter term, 1997.
The Task Force would continue to study the issue with the ultimate goal of
recommending a University-wide approach to child care that would address
child care needs for faculty, staff, and students.
Vice President Hartford observed that there is a real need among students
for child care, and that it addresses the issue of access to the University. She
noted that the issue had received wide discussion in MSA, had been approved
by students in a campus-wide plebiscite, and is wholeheartedly endorsed by the
Office of Student Affairs.


109




November Meeting, 1996


Vice President Hartford called on Ms. Fiona Rose, president of Michigan
Student Assembly. Ms. Rose observed that she had spent the past several
months further studying the issues facing student parents at the University and
is convinced that adopting the proposal is the right thing to do. She observed
that the University is strengthened by embracing nontraditional students, staff,
and faculty, and she described her own background as having been born to a
single mother who was a sophomore in college at the time, and she had been the
beneficiary of quality child care. She herself is a product of public housing, the
public welfare system, and public schools, which has caused her faith in the
public university system to be "innate and unshakable." She noted that
students view approval of this recommendation as "a step on the journey towards
opening our University family to students, staff, and faculty with children."
Regent Varner indicated that she intended to support the recommendation.
She recalled speakers at public comments sessions having reported that the
cost for child care is higher than the cost for tuition, and said that she
suspects there is a disparate impact on female students. She noted that the
University endeavors to meet the needs of various of its constituents and
that child care assistance is needed very badly and should be seen in that light.
Regent McGowan spoke in support of the proposal, noting that it would
leverage monies obtained through student fees and is the first step in a
University-wide, coordinated plan. She characterized the program as a "simple
and sensible first step" which provides financial assistance that, while guaranteeing quality by requiring licensed care, at the same time gives parents freedom of
choice in finding the best care for their individual situations. Embarking on
this program will expand our knowledge about the scope of the need at the
University, and this knowledge will be critical to resolution of the larger issue.
In response to a question from Regent Homing, Dean Hinshaw stated
that the proposal makes a clear distinction between the amount of assistance
provided for full-time and part-time students. Likewise, it differentiates between
the type of child care needed, such as infant care versus after school care. In an
effort to keep administrative costs to a minimum and to keep it simple for
students, these are the major variables considered in the program.
Regent Horning asked if thought had been given to having this program
not become an increasing burden on the General Fund as the program
expands. Provost Machen responded that this program would only be the
first in what will eventually become a multifaceted proposal involving faculty,
staff, and students. Once the whole program has been established, it will be
important to evaluate it annually as it moves forward. Regent Horning
commented that he expected any further expansion of this program to be
brought back to the Regents for approval.
Regent Newman observed that as the mother of two young children, she
is well aware of the need for quality child care. Although she believes it is
appropriate for the University to be involved in child care assistance, she
does not agree that this particular program, which involves use of the General
Fund and student fees, will solve the problem. Her major concerns are 1) the
use of the General Fund for a program that will affect fewer than one percent
of students; 2) restriction of payments only to licensed providers; 3) the


110




November Meeting, 1996


addition of another administrative burden to the University which could lead
to increased personnel costs; 4) the fact that this proposal "does not begin"
to solve the infant care problem, which probably represents the biggest need.
Regent Newman said she had hoped the task force would have addressed
different alternatives, such as privatization of facilities with University support,
or private companies that might work with the University, or fundraising
alternatives. While she agrees that there is a need, she believes that parents
need a choice which is not being provided by this program. Therefore, she
concluded that she supports the concept but not this program.
Provost Machen observed that access is as important a priority for a public
university as is quality and pointed out that a significant portion of the General
Fund is currently designated for financial aid. He believes that the child care
matching funds is another form of financial aid, which also increases access to a
particular segment of the student body, namely women. Therefore, he believes
that reallocation of a portion of the General Fund for this purpose is
appropriate and consistent with the University's mission. He also observed
that while he is aware of the administrative cost of this program, he believes it
is acceptable and that the scholarship model is the simplest way to administer
it. Administrative costs will be monitored as well as the cost of the scholarships
themselves, so that the total cost to the University can be calculated.
Dean Hinshaw pointed out that nontraditional students bring an
unusual richness to the environment. She said that the requirement for
licensed child care is there to monitor quality, and that registered home care
is another means to monitor quality as well. She also noted that the funds
would be paid retroactively, once a semester.
Regent Newman observed that adoption of this proposal would only be a
starting point in dealing with all of the issues involved in child care for
faculty, students, and staff and would therefore inevitably lead to increased
costs. She expressed regret that private fundraising or other forms of
privatization were not part of the proposal.
Dean Hinshaw responded that privatization issues had received
consideration in the task force's deliberations, and they would continue to be
discussed during deliberations about other child care issues in the future.
The initial proposal was meant to respect the initiative that had been taken
by students in addressing their need for child care.
Regent Baker expressed the view that the small percentage of students
who voted in the election did not represent the views of the entire student
body. However, he did understand from personal experience that child care
is a problem for many parents. He expressed disappointment that the task
force report seemed incomplete and said that it should be possible to produce
an estimate of costs and funding mechanisms spread out over a period of
years.
Provost Machen responded that because the extent of the demand is
currently unknown, it would be difficult to set forth comprehensive cost
estimates.


111




November Meeting, 1996


Regent McGowan noted that the Regents' original instructions to the
provost were to begin a process for construction of a University-wide program,
but specifically to present to the Regents in November a viable plan which
could best be used to leverage the money that would be generated by the
$1.00 per student per term fee that was approved in the March 1996 student
referendum. The task force was not expected to have devised a full-blown
plan to deal with all child care issues.
Regent Baker noted that he had at that time requested an estimate of
costs over time.
Regent Varner pointed out that the proposal under consideration is
merely a modest first step that will not be creating any new facility or office.
It will be utilizing the already existing resources of the Office of Financial
Aid. Regent Varner expressed her view that the proposal represents "a very
positive response to an initiative that was taken by the students," and it
deserves the Regents' support.
Provost Desmond observed that the Flint campus has a dire need for
child care for nontraditional students. He noted that a study quoted in the
Task Force report found that undergraduate students who received financial
aid for child care had significantly higher grade point averages and much
higher retention rates than students who did not receive this aid. Child care
assistance is both a form of tuition discounting as well as a means of retention
of students who otherwise would not be attending college.
Regent McFee pointed out that providing child care assistance as a form
of financial aid allows the University to deal with a real need without creating
a new bureaucracy. She noted that "meaningful and affordable child care,"
particularly for infants and preschool children, has been recognized as one of
the biggest unmet needs at all levels of society and is recognized as a desirable
option for children from loving homes. She pointed out that besides fulfilling a
need for parents, daycare also can be seen as filling a need for children by
providing a stimulating environment for them prior to entering school. She
believes that child care is an issue for employers and businesses as well as
schools, and that as a major employer, it behooves the University of Michigan
to expend time and resources trying to grapple with it. Regent McFee
concluded that she fully supports this effort as a first step toward addressing a
specific need, but she hopes that the University can also use its resources to
contribute to the solution of nationwide problems in the area of child care.
Regent Newman reiterated that she "absolutely supports" the need for
child care. However, she does not believe that the match for the student fees
should come from the General Fund, as proposed by the task force. She
pointed out that costs for attending the University are a problem for many
students, not just parents, and that this cannot be solved by continuing to
raise tuition and asking for more state funds. Rather, ways have to be found
to contain costs. She said she would be willing to support the program if it
contained a private sector component.
Regent Power raised the question of what would happen if next year
students were to vote to withdraw their contribution: Would the University


112




November Meeting, 1996


still be committed to the General Fund match? Ms. Rose and Dean Hinshaw
responded that if that were to happen, the program would have to be
reconsidered.
In response to concerns that enactment of this program would become
only the first step towards increased spending, Regent Power noted that as a
pilot program, it would provide an opportunity to learn the nature of the
demand and the cost of meeting the demand and would serve as a testing
ground for devising creative approaches, as suggested by Regent McFee. He
emphasized that child care assistance is one component of addressing the
question of access to the University.
It was noted that the vote on this question would not take place until
the following day. There followed a short break.
Annual Report of Research Activity, Fiscal Year 1996
Acting Vice President Neidhardt gave a slide presentation in which he
presented an overview of the functions of the Office of the Vice President for
Research (OVPR), reviewed special initiatives being undertaken by the office
during 1996-97, and described the state of research at the University of
Michigan in 1996. He noted that research expenditures for 1996 totaled
$441.3 million, which represents a steady increase over the past ten years.
He displayed charts illustrating the research portfolio by fields of study,
research expenditures by University unit, by sponsor group, and by federal
agency for 1996, as well as the ten-year trend in research expenditures by
federal and nonfederal sources.
Acting Vice President Neidhardt noted that federal spending on nondefense research and development is projected to decrease by 20-30 percent
by 2002. In conclusion, he observed that in 1995-96 federal support of UM
research and scholarly activities continued to increase, industrial and
foundation support showed signs of increase, and support from UM funds
remained constant while continuing to decline as a fraction of total expenditures
for these activities. University of Michigan faculty members continue to be
competitive in securing externally sponsored funds.
Regent McFee pointed out that the research conducted at the University
of Michigan and other research institutions provides far-reaching benefits to
society, and we need to continue to emphasize to the general public that research
is a fundamental part of a university's contribution to society.
Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs
(SACUA)
Interim President Neal called on Professor Thomas Dunn, chair of the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs, to present the committee's
annual report.
Professor Dunn expressed great satisfaction on behalf of the faculty for
the selection of Lee Bollinger as the University's twelfth president. He also
observed that many faculty believe that although the court's interpretation
of the Open Meetings Act created unnecessary restrictions, there are many


113




November Meeting, 1996


reasons to continue most of the public aspects of the open process in the
future, even if the University's court challenge is successful.
Professor Dunn also expressed the faculty's appreciation for the service
of Regents Nellie Varner and Deane Baker for their dedication to the
oversight of the University. He commented that "Both have represented the
voices of their constituencies very well indeed, and this is essential if the
University is to remain strongly connected to the ideas and aspirations of the
citizens of the state, both for themselves and for their children."
Professor Dunn announced that 14 members of the Faculty Senate have
been assembled to form The Faculty Senate Committee on the Future of the
University, whose purpose will be to "confront the challenge of the variety of
ideas, concepts, and initiatives which will be essential to the vitality of the
University of Michigan in the years ahead."
Professor Dunn then described the faculty governance system and
commented on several of the issues that are currently of concern. These
include the future of the University of Michigan Hospitals; the role of the
intercollegiate athletics program; how to attain a greater diversity of faculty
within the legal constraints of the Hopwood and Bakke limitations; grievance
procedures; concerns regarding some aspects of value centered management.
Professor Dunn concluded that problems are best solved when all segments
of the University work together in a spirit of collaboration and noted that
faculty are "anxious and willing to join with the Regents in even greater
collaborative achievements under our twelfth president."
Michigan Virtual Automotive College (MVAC) Update
Interim President Neal called to the table Douglas Van Houweling, vice
provost for academic outreach and information technology and dean for
academic outreach. Vice Provost Van Houweling gave a presentation on
academic outreach, the virtual university movement, and three new University
programs: the University of Michigan Online, UAW/Ford Program, and the
Virtual Automotive College.
Vice Provost Van Houweling reported that academic outreach exists to
expand the University's ability to deliver academic resources to new people
and organizations beyond the campuses, with resources being customized to
industry and personal needs. This is accomplished by exploiting opportunities
provided by advances in digital and information technology. The "Virtual
University" movement is becoming the model for 21st century distance learning;
it complements campus-based programs and institutionalizes lifelong learning.
He described three current academic outreach programs:.University of
Michigan Online, which provides Internet access to University alumni,
parents, retired faculty or staff, and their spouses; the UAW/Ford Program,
which is a nationwide academic program for members of the United Auto
Workers Union employed by Ford Motor Company; and the Michigan Virtual
Auto College (MVAC), which responds to the education and training needs of
the automotive industry. He also introduced Mr. Timothy G. Quinn, director
of MVAC.


114




November Meeting, 1996


Regent Newman complimented Vice Provost Van Houweling and his
colleagues on the work that has been done in the area of academic outreach.
Regent Power observed that he "can't think of anything more significant
that this institution is doing than exploring the potential of distance learning
and digitized information transmittal, which I think is the most significant
technological change in human history since the invention of moveable type."
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the meeting of
September 19-20, 1996, and the special meeting of October 1, 1996. The
regular meeting that had originally been scheduled for October 17-18, 1996, was
canceled.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted the following
reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations,
and Noncompetitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources.
Acting Vice President Neidhardt submitted the following reports: Current
Research and Sponsored Projects and Remarks to the Regents on April 19, 1996.
Professor Dunn submitted the Faculty Governance Update.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of
voluntary support for the months of September and October, 1996. He
reported that the campaign has currently reached $1.144 billion and is
within $70 million of the endowment goal.
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Hospital Social Work Office................ $ 6,666
Andrew Abel, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
John D. Adcock, Grand Rapids
340 shares of May Department Stores common stock
for the Margaret C. Adcock Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Medical School...........................................  15,746
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 25,000
Aeroquip, Maumee, Ohio
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration........... 15,000
Richard B. Ainsworth, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the Schools
of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment......... 5,500
Emma Alexander Estate
for the John Alexander Distinguished Professorship in the Medical School,
and for the Emma Alexander Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  95,000
David D. Alger, New York, New York
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration........... 25,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Biophysics Research Division, the Medical School, and
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts.......................... 125,078
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  33,795
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in the Medical School......................................  25,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in
the College of Pharmacy............................................   9,000
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000


115




November Meeting, 1996


Ameritech, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.. 100,000
Ameritech Publishing, Inc., Troy
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  30,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................. 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,375
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University Musical Society................................... 14,543
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
168 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Raymond W. Waggoner Lectureship on Ethics and Values and
for research  in the Medical School.................................10,467
G. Bhalla & Associates, Inc., Vienna, Virginia
for the Internet Research Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 22,500
Robert D. Biggs, Lima, Ohio
110 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School..                   10,065
James and Gail Browne Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Tax Policy Research Fund in the School of Business Administration.... 5,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 12,914
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
David E. A. Carson, Bridgeport, Connecticut
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 5,000
Mrs. Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 25,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Reunion of Black Graduates Fund in the Alumni Association.......... 8,650
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Life-Actuarial Sciences Fund and the Property & Casualty-Actuarial
Sciences Fund, Department of Mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................   11,000
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
10 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Mental Health Research Institute Frontiers of Neurosciences Fund
and the Margaret Wilson Gerard Memorial Fund in the Medical School...... 322,000
Core Industries, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................  5,000
Corning Besselaar, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in the Medical School.......................................  9,479
Richard H. Crane Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................... 286,726
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for the Culpeper Bioethics Faculty Development Program, Medical School.... 75,000
Daimler Benz, Ulm, Germany
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 30,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship........................... 5,000
Detroit News, Detroit
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
Stanley E. Dimond, Ann Arbor
for the Stanley Dimond Memorial Fund in the School of Education.......... 10,000
Jean W. Dorsett-Robinson Isle of Palms, South Carolina
for support in the School of Public Health.................................  5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Chemical Sciences Facilities Building in the College of Literature,
Sciences, and  the  Arts................................................  100,000
Ducker Research Company, Inc., Bloomfield
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration........... 12,000
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for the Engineering Development Forum 5th Conference in the College of
Engineering..........................................................  5,000


116




November Meeting, 1996


Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, in memory of John F. Ullrich.. 10,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover Maryland
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School............. 30,000
George L. Farr, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the George L. Farr Merit Scholarship, School of Business
Administration................................................  10,000
Albert J. Fillmore Estate
for support in  the School of Music......................................  25,000
Thomas W. Ford Fund at the Peninsula Community Foundation,
San Mateo, California
for the Thomas W. Ford Program in Dispute Resolution in the Law School.. 2,000,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the University Musical Society......................................  16,500
Bruce Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
for the support in the Department of Athletics, and for the Bruce, Stanley
and Stuart rankel Endowment in the School of Business Administration.... 11,000
Suzanne O. Frankie, Bloomfield Hills
for the Roberta C. Keniston Scholarship in the School of Information........ 15,000
Carl Gans, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 9,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Reunion of Black Graduates Fund in the Alumni Association.......... 8,650
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Byron Gerson, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business
Adm inistration.......................................................  20,000
Matthew B. Gerson, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business
Administration........................................................  5,000
Goldman Sachs Money Markets, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Law School............................       10,000
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, DC
for history support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 5,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for support in the Schoof of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair
Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................... 5,100
Janice Grant, Madison, Florida
for support in the College of Engineering, in memory of Robert A. Grant...... 6,250
Eugene M. Grant and Company, New York, New York
for the NEH Challenge Grant Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  12,500
Grundy Industries Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
G. T. Investment, Sterling Heights
for otolaryngology research in the Medical School.......................... 5,000
Nancy E. Gwinn, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Information.................................. 5,000
Rodolfo UyHam, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School.... 5,837
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Marina del Ray, California
for the Beverly Lannquist Hamilton Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,000
George Hammond Family Trust
for the George Hammond, M.D., Medical Scholarship in the Medical School... 33,788
Ruth P. Hellmann, Westbury, New York
for the Hellmann Family Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,000
Loyal R. Henderson Estate
300 shares of Norfolk Southern Company common stock
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 24,131
Honigman oundation, Inc., Southfield
for support in  the Law  School..........................................  80,334
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
117




November Meeting, 1996


LaRue T. Hosmer, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Marjorie F. Hospidor Estate
for the Mary Dennis Folmer Faculty Awards in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................    15,774
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for electrical and computer science engineering support in the
College  of Engineering................................................  10,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Political Science Seminar Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  23,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships, computer science and electrical
engineering fellowships and the Minority Engineering Program
in  the College of Engineering..........................................  78,800
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for computer science and electrical engineering fellowships in the
College  of Engineering................................................  58,491
Ralph J. Isackson, Bay City
70 shares of Nations Bank Corporation common stock
for the Isackson-Biller Law Student Scholarship in the Law School........... 6,536
Marjorie M. Jackson, Pittsford, Vermont
1,048 shares of Pasadena Investment Trust Growth mutual fund
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund in the
School of Nursing.................................................... 22,605
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  99,427
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School...................................... 12,367
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Foundation Exchange Student Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  16,000
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for the Kajima Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  5,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Nursing.................. 2,050,000
Milton G. Kendrick, Mt. Bethel, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Education....................................  5,000
Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein, New York, New York
for the Esther A. an Joseph Klingenstein Fund in the Medical
School..............................................................  40,000
Lake Superior Bank & Trust, Sault Ste. Marie
for the support in the School of Public Health........................... 412,960
Jack Lapides Estate
for the Alice Hatt Lapides Graduate Fellowship and the Roberta
DeVries Lapides Graduate Fellowship in the School of Nursing, for
the Jack Lapides Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Jack Lapides Graduate Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...................... 987,475
Harriet T. Latimer Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 21,166
Genevieve Latulip Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 25,000
L. Bates Lea Glenview, Illinois
2,000 shares of Viking Office Products and
1,900 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for the L. Bates Lea Visiting Professorship in the Law School............. 104,788
Dean Kyung H. Lee, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Program Development Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  5,000
Herbert H. Lee Endowment Trust
for the Herbert H. Lee Scholarship......................................  15,000
N. M. Leff Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Dale E. and Norman M. Leff Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 5,000
Jerry W. Levin, New York, New York
4,042 shares of Apogee Enterprises, Inc., common stock


118




November Meeting, 1996


for the Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Endowment, College of
Engineering.........................................  136,418
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for support in the School of Music.......................................  7,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.......................................  8,750
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Dillard, Georgia
for the  Ruth  Lobdell Scholarship.......................................  21,000
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering
Program in the College of Engineering.................................. 17,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for chemical engineering support and the Macromolecular Research
Center in the College of Engneering, and for chemistry support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 200,000
Eloise D. Lyman Estate
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship in the Alumni Association and
for campus landscaping support.........................................  8,110
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................. 49,400
Mallinckrodt Sensors Systems, Inc Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  7,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
R. Gordon Mathews, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics..................... 30,000
Frederick C. Matthaei Jr., Birmingham
145 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 10,014
Julian G. McIntosh Estate
57,409 shares of various corporate common stock
17,651 shares of Merrill Lynch Technology Fund mutual fund and
a cash gift for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department
of Athletics, and for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Memorial
Fund  in  the  School of Music......................................... 3,612,759
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Center in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 50,000
Merry Mary Charitable Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the Stephen and Mary Meadow Faculty Award in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 12,500
Mobil Foundation, Fairfax, Virginia
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in the  College of Engineering.....................................  10,000
Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration........... 12,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 75,000
Alberta Muirhead, Dearborn
for the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Honors
Program/Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  109,756
National Academy of Education, Stanford, California
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Education................. 20,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  14,915
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  31,574
George J. Nichols, Jr., Plymouth
250 shares of TCF Financial common stock
for the George J. Nichols Student Internship in the School of Business
Adm inistration...............................................  9,266
119




November Meeting, 1996


Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Continuing Education Fund in the School of Dentistry.............. 12,500
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  17,473
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Chappaqua, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 5,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the Medical School................................   77,411
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Public Health.............................. 180,000
Polish National Alliance, Chicago, Illinois
for instructional support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 7,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Endowed Scholarship in Chemical
Engineering in the College of Engineering.....                     10,000
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,833
Raytech Corporation, Crawforsville, Indiana
for research in the College of Engineering................................  65,000
Ross J. Richmond Estate
for the Robert L. Richmond Endowed Scholarship, College of Engineering... 158,000
John O. Robertson, Jr., Clayton, Georgia
1,005 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship........... 53,267
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for the Center for Afro-American and African Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  40,000
Alton and Herbert Roska Trust
for research in the Medical School.......................... 163,000
Charlotte M. Saltonstall Trust
for the Charlotte M. Saltonstall Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts... 10,000
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College
of Engineering........................................................  6,000
Peter A. Schroeder, East Lansing
for the Chris Schroeder Graduate Scholarship and other support in the
School of M usic.......................................................  5,000
Stanley S. Schwartz, Franklin
for the Stanley S. Schwartz Fund in the Law School....................... 20,000
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund
in  the  College  of Engineering...........................................  5,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Elbel Club/Marching Band Fund in the Department of Athletics...... 20,000
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Newport News, Virginia
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn..........................................   25,000
Brooks H. Sitterley, Marion, Ohio
200 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the William Martel Professorship in Radiology in the Medical School...... 16,888
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Michigan Engineering TV Network in the College of
Engineering, and for economics support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  54,900
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society......................................  12,500
Speedflo, Glendale, Arizona
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Helen Webb................ 5,000
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
200 shares of John H. Harland Company common stock
for the Robert G. Strachan Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  5,013
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction;
for the Scottish Rites Funds in the Medical School.......................... 8,625
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000


120




November Meeting, 1996


United Negro College Fund, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for research in the College of Pharmacy..................................  55,000
University of Colorado Foundation, Inc., Boulder, Colorado
for research in the School of Education...................................  5,305
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship in the
Alum ni Association...................................................  12,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship
in  the  Alumni Association.............................................  10,846
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Bay City, Bay City
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship in the Alumni Association............. 5,219
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health................................ 8,500
Harvey A. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Harvey A. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Athletics Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of
Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts; and
for the University Musical Society...................................... 51,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke Davis Professorships and Fellowships
in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy, for the WarnerLambert/Parke Davis Professorship in Chemistry in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for student aid in the Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................ 742,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the University
M usical Society............................................  11,141
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment............................................ 8,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the International Institute, College of Literature, Science
and  the  Arts.........................................................  11,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  5,600
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School, the
Colleges of Engineering and Pharmacy, and in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies...........................................  426,359
Howard L. Wikel, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School............ 9,000
Janette F. Williams, Ann Arbor
458 shares of Coca Cola common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Pediatric Hematology Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  24 102
Lloyd E. Williams, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  50,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Fluidics Research Fund in the College of Engineering............... 10,000
Asa G. Yancey, Sr., Atlanta, Georgia
280 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for support in  the Medical School........................................  9,310
Walter R. Young, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
AAE Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry...................................6,598
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program and the Research
Incentive Fund in the College of Engineering............................. 20,000
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  7,500
Fred Alger Management, Inc., New York, New York
for support m the School of Business Administration...................... 26,500
James M. Amend, Chicago, Illinois
715 shares of Transport Holdings Insurance Company common stock
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School................... 51,033


121




November Meeting, 1996


American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division........................ 63,663
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  24,546
American Digestive Health Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............                     25,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................12,101
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School.......................................  9,900
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  133,273
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................... 18,750
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business
Adm inistration......................................................  211,074
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  35,000
Ameritech Michigan, Detroit
for support in the Schools of Engineering and Management at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn......................................  60,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  40,500
AMP, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for the Cumulative Trauma Disorders Fund in the College of
Engineering.........................................................  25,000
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................  12,500
Arbor Technologies, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  14000
ARCO Chemical Company, Newton Square, Pennsylvania
for the Office of Career Development in the School of Business
Administration, and for support in the College of Engineering.............. 15,025
ARCO Exploration & Production Technology, Plano, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program m Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in the College of Engineering....................................  20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School................................  47,875
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  m   the Medical School.......................................   5,350
Atlantic Detroit Diesel Allison, Lodi, New Jersey
for the Communication Disorders Center m the Medical School.............. 5,000
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for the Schmidt Family Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School..........  25,000
T. R. Balakrishnan London, Ontario, Canada
for the Ruth Sager Balakrishnan Scholarship............................. 10,000
Daniel R. Balbach, Ann Arbor
110 shares of Regions Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Dentistry, and for the University Musical Society. 5,531
Arthur P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
120 shares of Imation Corporation and
50 shares of Progressive Corporation common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business
Adm inistration....................................................   5,864
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington DC
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Bayer Corporation, West Haven, Connecticut
for support in  the Medical School........................................  6,000
Becker Group, Inc., Sterling Heights
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute....................................................  5,000
Peter M. Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
for the London School of Economics Student Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Negotiation Skills Fund in the School of Public Policy, and
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship................ 49,186


122




November Meeting, 1996


M. E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia, Canada
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
and for the biological station in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts......................................................... 6,000
Blowitz-Ridgeway Foundation, Des Plaines, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................... 25,000
F. A. & A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School............. 10,000
BP America, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Plymouth
for the Jerry Hanlon Endowed Football Lineman Scholarship in the
Departm ent of Athletics................................................  5,000
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Public Health Merit Scholarship in the School of Public Health....... 17,500
Loren Butler Estate
660 shares of Ameritech Corporation common stock
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 36,713
Patricia A. Butler, Boulder, Colorado
for the student aid in the School of Public Health.......................... 5,000
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,250
Carbomedics, Inc., Austin, Texas
for the Cardiac Biomaterials Research Fund in the Medical School............ 5,510
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the School of Social Work.................................  25,000
Chi Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering............. 12,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  30,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 10,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the Citibank Academic Excellence Award in the School of Business
Administration.......................................             12,000
Citizens Insurance Company of America, Howell
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business
Administration................................                     20,000
CoCensys, Inc., Irvine, California
for pharmacology research in the Medical School.......................... 10,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for employee matching gifts.............. 6,075
Committee on Problems of Drug Dependence, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for pharmacology research in the Medical School........................... 7,400
Computer Trading Corporation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Public Policy................................  10,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
500 shares of First of America Bank Corporation and
162 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship in the Alumni Association,
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, and for the University Library........................... 33,894
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Dentistry.................................... 5,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  32,846
Katherine Q. Cox, Flint
for the Lawrence E. Quinn Memorial Scholarship in the School of
Music, and for the Friends of Music Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint........................................................  5,100
George F. Dales Foundation, Berkeley, California
for support in the Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000


123




November Meeting, 1996


Willametta K. Day Foundation Los Angeles, California
for the Gayle Sweetland Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, in memory of Morris Sweetland...................... 6,666
Delta Dental Plan of Michigan Lansing
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School
of  D entistry.............................................           8,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  18,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan,
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts........... 6,200
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for the Detroit Free Press Dean's Merit Scholarship and the Minority
Worksho Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 25,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 5,000
Charles DeVleg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of
Engineering................................................... 21,000
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Jamestown, New York
350 shares of Airtouch Communications, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 9,696
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
148 shares of Citicorp common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Chair Challenge Fund and the Center for
Russian and East European Studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  18,718
Glenn R. Doshay, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Dow Professorship in Public Health in the School of Public
Health and for employee matching gifts................................. 250,190
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, New York, New York
for the Catherine Wynne Dolan Scholarship............................... 8,000
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
for the John D. Evans Fund, and for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  232,130
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, for
support in the College of Engineering; and for the Kenneth K. Landes
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 27,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........... 72,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Transportation Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, and for the Quality Research Center at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................... 85,000
Foundation for Sports Medicine Education and Research, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in the School of
Business Administration, and for support in the School of Social Work....... 22,500
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for the Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts........................................  5,000
Donald N. Frey, Evanston, Illinois
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Helene FuldIealth Trust, New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 28,700
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
Gerber Companies Foundation, Fremont
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Behavior............  30,000
William M. Gibson, Evans, Georgia
for the Clifton S. Goddin Chemical Engineering Scholarship in the
College of Engineering, in memory of Helen B. Gibson..................... 10,000


124




November Meeting, 1996


Alvin Glick, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 25,000
\Donald C. Graham, York, Pennsylvania
for the Donald C. Graham Endowment in the College of Engineering........ 50,000
James N. Gray Construction Company, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute.............................................................  6 500
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
Great Lakes Fishery Commission, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the GTE Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, for electrical and computer engineering fellowships
and for minority and female scholarships in the College of
Engineering; and for employee matching gifts............................ 42,480
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School............ 10,000
David A. Hamilton, Alien Park
for the Bob Ufer Memorial Fund and the Yost Arena Renovation
Fund in the Department of Athletics.....................................  5,240
Samuel D. Harris Trust, Detroit
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School
of  D entistry.........................................................  30,000
Hass Foundation, Novi
for endowment support in the School of Education........................ 26,250
A. B. Heller, Inc., Milford
for support in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics...................... 5,000
Esther Heyns, Holland
465 shares of Xerox Corporation and
400 shares of Schering Plough common stock
for the  University  Library.............................................  51,332
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 45,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School..................... 70,000
Samuel I. Hyman Scholarship Fund
for undergraduate  student aid..........................................  50,792
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the IMRA Fellowship in the College of Engineering..................... 27,500
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, Washington, DC
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  10,000
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
for the Isaacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.........................................................  10,000
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for program support in the School of Social Work; and for the
Holocaust Fund in Mardigian Library, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  29,605
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  7,600
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................. 246,521
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. Johnson Wax, Racine, Wisconsin
for the Graduate Fellowship and Scholarship Fund in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
200 shares of NAC Re Corporation common stock
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 7,425
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 12,400
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Information, for support in College of


125




November Meeting, 1996


Literature, Science, and Arts and at the University of Michigan-Flint
and for employee matching gifts...................................... 240,094
Steven B. Klinsky, New York, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
U niversity  Library.....................................................  8,333
Arthur T. Kuiper Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute.............................................................  7,500
LESCOA Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health................................ 8,910
Lions of Michigan, District 11-B-1, Oak Brook, Illinois
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in the Medical School............ 48,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, for the Maas Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration and the Maas Foundation Engineering MJMI
Scholarship in the College of Engineering; for the Herbert S. and
Carol L. Amste Research Fund in the Medical School, the Irving M.
Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library;
and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum............................... 24,750
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education................................... 38,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Sally A. Martin, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund................................. 5,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for the Theatre Associates Fund in the School of Music; and
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, in memory of Clementine
M iller  Tangew........................................................  5,150
Masco Tech, Inc., Taylor
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  5,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Education................. 29,714
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Max McGraw Professorship of Corporate Environmental
Management in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural
Resources and Environment..........................................  300,000
McLaren Regional Medical Center Flint
for the  ax Ronald Burnell Resident Fellowship in the Medical School....... 81,000
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Merck Fellows in Pharmaceutics Fund in the College of Pharmacy.... 60,000
Midwest Eye-Banks and Transplantation Center; Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 25,000
James M. Mullendore, Jr., Gowen
500 shares of First Michigan Bank Corporation common stock
for the Stanley Kemp Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology............. 12,250
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Network Express, Inc., Ann Arbor
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration........... 13,500
New York Council on Adoptable Children, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work..................................  5,000
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's


126




November Meeting, 1996


Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, for the Sports
Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies and for the Chris Webber/Nike Foundation Scholarship............. 60,000
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Akihiko Nishimura, Ann Arbor
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering........... 10,000
Oakwood Hospital Corporation, Dearborn
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of
Public Health..............................................         12,000
Francis T. Oda, Honolulu Hawaii
for support in the Medical School........................................   5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the School of Public Health................................ 20,000
Paideia Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 6,250
Parke-Davis and Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health................... 14,840
Pentax, Orangeburg, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  30,000
Raymond S. Perry, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Primo's Pizza, Birmingham
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................  5,000
Republican Women of West Oakland, Livonia
for the Communicative Disorders Clinic...................................  5,000
John 0. Robertson, Melbourne, Florida
1,495 shares of Fidelity Capital & Income Fund mutual fund and
1,200 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the
ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship.......................... 44,062
Ross Technology, Austin, Texas
for the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering............... 15,000
Jack Roth, Malibu, California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 60,000
Satech, Kirkland, Washington
for muscle research in the Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering..... 5,000
Steven Schondorf, Farmington Hills
for the Mallinckrodt Award in the Medical School......................... 55,000
G.D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
375 shares of Chittenden Corporation common stock
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.................. 9,164
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering and the Sea
Grant/Industry Consortium Fund in the College of Engineering............. 20,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Women's Softball Locker Room Fund in the Department of
Athletics, and for the University Marching Band in the School of Music..... 300,000
Gilbert B. Silverman, Farmington Hills
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  11,500
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation New York, New York
for planning support tor the Michigan Virtual Auto College................. 25,390
Alene Smith, Ann Arbor
for the William and Claribel Baird Halstead Scholarship, the Theatre
Associates Fund, and other support in the School of Music................... 5,000
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School
of Business Administration............................................  10,000
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Gynecologic Oncology Educational Fund in the Medical School......... 5,000
Eli Soodik Revocable Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000


127




November Meeting, 1996


Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation
of the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rites Funds in the Medical School.......................... 8,625
Taisho Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Taisho Excellence in Research Program in the Medical School........ 41,000
Robert E. Terkhorn, Greenwich, Connecticut
60 shares of Citicorp common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,546
TheraCom, New York, New York
for support in the College of Pharmacy...................................  9,720
Toledo Hospital, Toldeo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School................ 170,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
415 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Richard F. Towner Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering............................ 39,710
Lynn A. Townsend, Farmington Hills
90 shares of Chestnut Street Exchange Fund Limited Partnership, and
a cash gift for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship and
the Communication Disorders Center in the Medical School................ 20,372
Emmet E. Tracy, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics..................... 16,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for automotive transportation research, in the Transportation Research
Institute............................................................  7,500
T.S.G. Ventures, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Business Administration...........                                    8,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration........ 15,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Birmingham, Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham Alumnae Club Scholarship in the Alumni
Association............6,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Robert J. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
25,540 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock
for the Robert J. Vlasic Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering.................................. 2,000,101
Vlasic Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
3,193 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock
for the Robert J. Vlasic Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 250,052
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
18,200 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Ara Paul Professorship m Pharmacy in the College of Pharmacy.... 687,050
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
600 shares of Douglas & Lomason Company common stock
for the Harriett and John Walther Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration...................................................     18,488
George E. Wantz, New York, New York
600 shares of various corporate common stocks
for support in the Medical School and the University Library............... 30,350
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy, and for the Natural Sciences
Department at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 5,200
Jerry A.Weisbach, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of SIBA Neuroscience, Inc., common stock
for the Coran Professorship in Pediatric Surgery in the Medical School........ 7,000
Wells Fargo & Company, San Francisco, California
for employee matching gifts.......................................  10,350
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for mechanical engineering and applied mechanics support in the College
of Engineering, and for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................................... 46,500
Robert J. White, Los Angeles, California
For support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
For the Frank B. Womer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Education............................... 10,000
128




November Meeting, 1996


World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
For the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
1,040 shares of Templeton World Fund mutual fund
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 17,098
Kirk D. Wuepper Estate
for the Kirk D. Wuepper Professor of Investigative Dermatology
Fund in the Medical School..... 350,000
Zatkoff Sales & Packings, Farmington
for scholarships and the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department
of Athletics.....            11,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  35,000
Morton M. Zedd, Richmond, Virginia
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Daewoo Group, Seoul, Korea
a crystal sculpture entitled, "Water Bird" by Lloyd Watkins for the Executive Education
Center
Mia Feroleto, New York, New York
an artwork entitled, "Rain" by Lucio Pozzi, for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center
Branislawa J. Olszewski, Ann Arbor
six books for the Clements Library
Eric Quist, Ann Arbor
fifteen books for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Joseph C. Salamone, Boca Raton, Florida
a 12-volume encyclopedia entitled, "Polymeric Materials Encyclopedia", for the
Macromolecular Science and Engineering Center
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
thirty binders illustrating Cambodian architecture for the Department of History of
Art
William Stamelos, Livonia
a signed, blown glass sculpture by Dale Chihuly for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Art Collection
John G. Whitcomb, Rocky River, Ohio
eight hundred 78-rpm records and a Teac cassette recorder with two sets of cables for
UtJOM/WVVGR
Ivan R. Wilde, Muskegon
a Civil War diary of Daniel B. Hutchins, dated 1864, for the Clements Library
Laura A. Daniel, Stockbridge
a 1977 Hullmaster salboat with trailer and related equipment for Camp Michigania
Martha B. Donovan, Sagamore Hills, Ohio
Civil War papers of Lt. William L. Curry for the Clements Library
Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
twenty-nine HP 712/60 computers and related equipment for the Department of
Mathematics
Kozo Sasaki, Kyoto Japan
Five thousand five hundred ninety-three 35mm slides, 1,598 photographs, and 41
transparencies of Far Eastern art; for the Department of History of Art
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
twenty-nine binders documenting Cambodian and Japanese architecture for the
Department of History of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 were received from the following
donors:
Richard H. Adler, Ypsilanti           Horizon Armenian Weekly, Montreal, PQ
Hilda Block, Romulus                  Robert D. Ireland, Dearborn
Barry A. Bogin, Oak Park              Brian Joseph, Northville
John Cansfield, East Lansing          Robert W. Kelly, Plymouth
Robert S. Cox, Jr., Ann Arbor         Lung-Fei Lee, Ann Arbor


129




November Meeting, 1996


Helen Mardigian, Bloomfield Township
Gerald E. Ottenbreit Jr., Southgate
Kathleen A. Packard, Ann Arbor
Diran Papazian, Southfield
Julie A. Peterson, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
John A. Sturgeon San Marino, California
Nikoghos Tahmizyan, Pasadena, California
Frank Whitehouse Jr., Ann Arbor
Jane D. Williams, Southfield
Jon Bakija, Ann Arbor
Anastasia Z. Bevier, Salinas, California
Harland M. Britz, Sylvania, Ohio
Charles C. Brown, Ann Arbor
H. D. Cameron, Ann Arbor
Thomas B. Darnton, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor
Russell Gaklie, Alpena
P. Michael Halstead, Lapeer
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor
Margret Hoft, Ann Arbor
Mary Jean Hovey
James M. Johnson, West Point, New York
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Pearson M. Macek, Ann Arbor


Donka Markus, Ann Arbor
Agnes M. Miner, Ann Arbor
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
George Morrison, III, Dearborn
Mark V. Pomilio, Manchester
Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake,
Minnesota
Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
Arlene P. Shy, Ann Arbor
Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Joseph N. Payne, Ann Arbor
Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
Arlene P. Shy, Ann Arbor
Patricia Simons, Ann Arbor
Joel B. Slemrod, Ann Arbor
Craig Stapleton, Greenwich,
Connecticut
Chester G. Starr, Ann Arbor
Shohig Sheery Terzian, Los Angeles,
California
Stephen J. Tonsor, Ann Arbor
Chester H. Wilson, Flint
Neal Wright, Ann Arbor
Michael Zinman, Ardsley, New York


Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Machen and Chancellors Nelms and Renick submitted a number of personnel actions and
reports.
Interim  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Regent McFee moved, Regent Newman seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, the appointment of Chandler W. Matthews as interim
executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective January 1, 1997.
Interim Director of the University Library. On a motion by
Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously
approved the appointment of William A. Gosling as interim director of the
University Library for the period January 1-June 30, 1997.
Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Norten, Enrique J., M.Arch., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, and Emil Lorch
Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, five-year term, January 1, 1997
Wigston, David L., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences, and
Director of Research, UM-Flint, three-year term, October 14, 1996


130




November Meeting, 1996


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1996
Barcelona, Michael J., Ph.D., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Johnson, Timothy M., M.D., from Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, Assistant
Professor of Surgery, and Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology to Associate
Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure,
and Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure
Pan, Xiaoqing, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Morton, Harrison L., reappointed Associate Dean, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, one-year term, July 1, 1996
Schoem, David, reappointed Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, two and one-half year term, January 1, 1997
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alessi, Norman E., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, November 1, 1996
Bailey, Charles W., from Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Director, Social
Work Program, UM-Flint, to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Social Work, UM-Flint, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Holland, Graham R., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also appointed
Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 1996
Marsh, William M., reappointed Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science,
UM-Flint, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Strecher, Victor J., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School
of Public Health, also appointed Professor of Health Behavior, without tenure, Medical
School, November 1, 1996
Twomey, Michael J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, also appointed
Interim Chair, Department of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn, six-month term,
January 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bright, Charles, Lecturer III in History, Residential College, leave without salary extended,
January 1-December 31, 1997
Lockery, Shirley A., Assistant Professor of Social Work, leave without salary extended,
January 1-May 31, 1997


131




November Meeting, 1996


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cheyette, Bryan H., Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies,
January 1-April 30, 1997
Gosling, William A., from Assistant Director for Technical Services and Systems and
Librarian to Interim Director of the University Library, six-month term, January 1, 1997
Kinder, Donald R., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, also appointed the Philip E. Converse Collegiate Professor of Political
Science, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Leonard, James E., Jr., from Interim Chair, Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, to Chair, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
October 18, 1996
Loesche, Walter J., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of
Microbiology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed the Marcus L. Ward
Professor of Dentistry, five-year term, September 1, 1996
Matthews, Chandler W., Interim Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
January 1, 1997
Olson, Gary M., from Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor of Information and Library Studies, without tenure, and
Associate Dean, School of Information, to Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Information and Library Studies,
with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Information, September 1, 1996
Samors, Robert J., Assistant Vice President for Research, November 15, 1996
Snyder, Edward A., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, and Associate Dean,
School of Business Administration, to Professor of Business Economics, with tenure,
and Senior Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, five-year term,
November 1, 1996
Sperber, Dan A., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Visiting Professor of Philosophy
Srolovitz, David J., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed the Edward D. Campbell Professor of Materials Science and Engineering,
five-year term, October 1, 1996
Orringer, Mark B., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed the John Alexander
Distinguished Professor of Thoracic Surgery, five-year term, October 1, 1996
Wall, Harriet M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Interim
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, July 8, 1996-June 30, 1997
Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education. The Regents
approved the establishment of the position of associate dean for research and
graduate education in the College of Pharmacy, effective January 1, 1997.
John Alexander Distinguished Professorship in Thoracic Surgery.
The Regents approved a change in the name of the John Alexander
Professorship in Thoracic Surgery to the John Alexander Distinguished
Professorship in Thoracic Surgery, effective September 1, 1996.
M. S. Keeler H Professorship in Mathematics. The Regents approved
the establishment of the M. S. Keeler II Professorship in Mathematics, effective
December 1, 1996.
Philip E. Converse Collegiate Professorship in Political Science.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Philip E. Converse Collegiate
Professorship in Political Science, effective July 1, 1996.
Committee Appointments. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the appointment of
a student representative to the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics.
132




November Meeting, 1996


Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Wolbert, Michelle, student representative, retroactive appointment, July 1, 1996 -June 30, 1998, vice Alicla Smith, term expired
The following committee appointments were also submitted for approval:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival
Baker, Lisa, reappointed, November 1, 1996-October 31, 1999
Cole, Elsa K., reappointed, November 1, 1996-October 31, 1999
Monts, Lester P., reappointed, November 1, 1996-October 31, 1999
Sparling, Peter, new appointment, November 1, 1996-October 31, 1999
Whitaker, Ruth, reappointed, November 1, 1996-October 31, 1999
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
The following members were reappointed October 1, 1996-September 30, 1997
Clark, C. E. Fraser, Jr.                 Klancnik, James M.
Cross, Thomas N.                         Mason, Philip P.
Diedrich, Duane N.                       Pohrt, Richard A.
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr.            Price, Jacob M.
Hamp, Stephen                            Schoff, Joanna
Hatcher, Harlan                          Schoonhoven, Anne M.
Hayes, Walter                            Seger, Martha R.
Heydon, Peter N.                         Shapiro, Harold T.
Hoyt, Ruth B.                            Thurber, Cleveland, Jr.
Kennedy, Sally                           Upton, David
Kingsley, Thomas                         Wheeler, John D.
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Lazzerin, Leslie M., alumna, retroactive appointment, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1998, vice
Migdalia Garcia, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
West, Edward, retroactive appointment, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997, vice Thelma
Thomas, unable to serve fall term 1996 and winter term 1997
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Chamberlin, John R., September 1, 1996-August 30, 1999, vice Steven Rosenstone, resigned
University of Michigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Inatome, Rick, retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1996-June 30, 2000
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Shyu, Shinming, M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art and Design
Hay, Elizabeth A., B.F.A., Lecturer in Art
Inuzuka, Sadashi M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art
Jacobsen, Carol S., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art
Paul, Janice C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Art
Schooler, Esther J., B.F.A., Lecturer in Art
School of Business Administration
Frank, Thomas E., M.B.A., Lecturer in Marketing


133




November Meeting, 1996


School of Dentistry
Kresbach, Paul H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, October 1, 1996
Ma, Peter X., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry
School of Education
Muchmore, James A., M.Ed., Lecturer in Education
Songer, Nancy B., Ph.D., Lecturer in Education
College of Engineering
Henderson, Shane G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering
Lin, Liwei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Papaefthymiou, Marios C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
Vlahopoulous, Nickolas, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering
Law School
Worden, Melissa K., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anna, Laura J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Arkun, Aram C.Phil., Lecturer II in History
Beal, Scott W., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Beck Astrid B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Studies in Religion
Berglund, Paula J., M.A., Lecturer I in English
Castellacci, Giuseppe, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Cesaretti, Enrico F., M.A., Lecturer II in Italian
Chen, Fang-Chu, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Chiba, Toru, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese
Cho, Eun-su, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Korean Language and Culture
Cole, Michael, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Collier, Thomas W., M.S., Lecturer II in History
Crittle, Myra C., Lecturer I in Psychology
Dean, John C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Ellis, Susan, Lecturer II in Political Science
Epstein, Marcy, M.A., Lecturer I in English
Erickson, Laura M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English
Farghaly, Ali, Ph.D., Lecturer III in Arabic Language
Fridrich, Raimund M., Comp de Licence, Lecturer I in German
Gherghetta, Tony, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Gong, Xianghong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Gottges-Eichele, Antje, M.A., Lecturer I in English
Gough, Maria E., Ph.D., Instructor in History of Art
Green, Jack G., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Greenberg, Daniel E. Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Herold, Kirsten F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures and Lecturer I
in English
Jimenez, Maria D., Philology, Lecturer II in Spanish
Jordan, Richard, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Kim, Michael J., M.A., Lecturer II in Korean
Kingsley, Lauren, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Kinney, Carol J., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Sociology
Kra, Bryna R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Lee, Jeyseon, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Korean
Lemire, Timothy S., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Leung, Yiu C., Ph.D. Lecturer I in Chemistry October 1, 1996
Leverich, Jean M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English, English Composition Board, and Lecturer I
in English, English Language and Literature
Lindsay, Lisa A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History and Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African
studies
Lofy, John C., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Ludolph, Pamela S Ph.D  Lecturer II in Psychology
Mangiafico, James D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English
Mansfield-Jones, Jennifer, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology, January 1, 1997
Naddaf, Ali R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Nysenholc, Judith, M.A.,, Lecturer II in Yiddish
Pant, Vijay, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Patalano, Andrea L., Lecturer in Psychology
134




November Meeting, 1996


Pons-Hervas, Maria D., Licenciatura, Lecturer II in Spanish
Prafke, Jean E., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Puff, Helmut, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of German
Ragowski, Tziona, M.A., Lecturer I in Hebrew Language
Ramamoorthy, Ayyalusamy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Ramey, Dawn M.,M.A. Lecturer I in Spanish
Richards, Andrew F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Rosenberg, Ilan, M.A., Lecturer I in Hebrew
Sabbagh, Hani R., Ph.D. Lecturer II in Arabic Language
Sarangarajan, Aravamuthan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Shea, William F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English
Shefferly, Nancy, M.S., Lecturer I in Biology
Skalsey, Mark A., Lecturer II in Physics
Sklenar Robert J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Sobeloff, Judith E., Lecturer I in English
Starostin, Ssergei A., Doctor, Lecturer II in Slavic Linguistics
Strauss, Nancy T., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Sweeney, Christopher J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Taylor, Charles L. III, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English
Tobing, Bahal I., M.B.A., Lecturer II in Indonesian
Twitchell-Pontorno, Kristen L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Van Keken, Peter E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences
VanDeventer, Mermone, Certificat, Lecturer I in French
Vejcik, Steve, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Waas, Jack R., M.A., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Waghulde, Vidyullata C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Ward, Lucretia M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Ward, Andrew H., Lecturer I in Psychology
Wellin, Elaine S. Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Whitmore, John k., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Vietnamese History
Willette, Thomas C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Winsten, Beth T., M.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Worthing, Rodney A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Yau, Ching, M.A., Lecturer III in Film and Video Studies
Young, Thomas E., M.A., Lecturer II in Buddhist Studies
Zhao, Xiaolin, Lecturer I in Chemistry
Medical School
Aaronson, Keith D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Chang, Cheong-Hee, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Elgert, Stephen D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice
Hak, David J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 26, 1996
Hatter, Jeffrey E., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, October 1, 1996
Jebson, Peter J. L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery
Maixner, Daniel F., M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, November 1, 1996
Nyachowe, Pascal, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery August 15, 1996
Raghavan, Malini, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
October 21, 1996
Schermer, Brian K., M.Arch, Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning
Vojtek, Anne B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry
School of Nursing
Bos Sara L., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Esch, Trudy J., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Fink. Sue V., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing
Gerding, Gail A., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Jones, Shirley J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing
McKee, Carole J., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Robbins, Lorraine B., M.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Wilson, Deleise S., M.A., Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Btaiche, Imad F., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, October 11, 1996
Jones, Julie M  B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, October 14, 1996
Lee, Kyung-Dall, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics


135




November Meeting, 1996


UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Owens, Chiarina G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Kannan, Rajgopal, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Clay, Michael A., M.B.A., Lecturer in Decision Sciences
CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Franzese, Robert J., Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
previously reported as Instructor in Political Science
Gonzalez, John M., Instructor in American Culture and Instructor in English
(previously reported as Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant
Professor of English)
Mufti, Aamir R., M.Phil., Instructor in English
(previously reported as Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature)
Ross, Michael L., M.A., Assistant Professor of Political Science
(previously reported as Instructor in Political Science)
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Gardner, Catherine H., Ph.D  Assistant Professor of Philosophy
(previously reported as Lecturer in Philosophy)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Holmes, Jeffrey C., from Lecturer in Business Administration to Project Manager
Mercer, Graham I., from Lecturer in Business Administration to Program Director
Shumway, Tyler G., from Lecturer in Business Administration to Assistant Professor of
Business Administration
School of Dentistry
Glickman, Gerald N., from Associate Professor of Dentistry to Clinical Professor II of
Dentistry, October 1, 1996
Hamilton, James C., from Lecturer in Dentistry to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Dentistry, August 1, 1996
Wandera, Ruth A., from Lecturer in Dentistry to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
School of Information
Atkins, Daniel E. III, from Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of Information, with tenure
Cohen, Michael D., from Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of Information, with tenure
Frost, Carolyn O., from Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of Information, with tenure
Mackie-Mason, Jeffrey K., from Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with
tenure, to Associate Professor of Information, with tenure
Law School
Scarnecchia, Suellyn, Clinical Professor II of Law, also appointed Associate Dean for Clinical
Affairs, July 1, 1996


136




November Meeting, 1996


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Dzhermakyan, Martin, from Lecturer II in Mathematics to Adjunct Assistant Research
Scientist, School of Business Administration, September 1, 1995
Reynolds, Jonathan M., Assistant Professor of History of Art, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Stratikis, Frank D., from Lecturer I in Classical Studies to Graduate Student Research
Assistant
Zimmerman, William IV Professor of Political Science, with tenure, also appointed Director,
Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, July 1, 1996
Medical School
Green, Carmen R., from Lecturer in Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology,
July 1, 1996
Hoock, Jennifer L., from Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Family Practice
Kershaw, Martha 0., from Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Family Practice
Olson, Allan D., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Riba, Michelle B., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry to Clinical Associate
Professor II of Psychiatry
Schultz, John S., from Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to
Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Vermilion, Roger P., from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 1, 1996
School of Nursing
Low, Lisa K., from Lecturer in Nursing to Graduate Student Instructor
College of Pharmacy
Chaffee, Betty J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy to Clinical Assistant
Professor I of Pharmacy, September 14, 1996
Diener, Kathy M., from Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy to Clinical Assistant Professor II
of Pharmacy
Mason, Nancy A., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy to Clinical Associate
Professor II of Pharmacy
Tamer, Helen R., from Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Pharmacy
School of Public Health
Caldwell, Cleopatra H., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education,
School of Public Health
Shope, Jean T., from Associate Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, Associate Research Scientist, Division of Kinesiology, and Associate
Research Scientist and Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, School of
Public Health, to Associate Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, Associate Research Scientist, Division of Kinesiology, and Associate
Research Scientist, School of Public Health, June 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1-December 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Darvas, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, September 1, 1996-April 30, 1997
School of Business Administration
Edwards, Alfred L., Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
School of Education
Jackson, Murray E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education
Menlo, Alien, Professor Emeritus of Education


137




November Meeting, 1996


Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and
Associate Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information, September 1, 1996 -April 30, 1997
College of Engineering
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences
Shafter, Edward M., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities
Division of Kinesiology
Vaughn, Joseph E., Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, Sports
Management, and Communications
Law School
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Becker, Marvin B., Professor Emeritus of History
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion
Steinhoff, William R., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature
Wagner, Warren H., Jr Professor Emeritus of Botany and Curator Emeritus of
Pteridophytes, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of
Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources and Environment
Medical School
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
November 1, 1996-October 31, 1997
Green, Robert A., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, September 1, 1996-August 31, 1997
Norton, Martin L., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor Emeritus
of Anesthesiology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Sullivan, Joseph E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
September 1, 1996-April 30, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art and Design
Hinton, Alfred F., Professor of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 17 -December 2, 1996
School of Business Administration
Cameron, George D. III, Professor of Business Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Lenk, Peter J., Associate Professor of Statistics and Management Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Mitchell, William G., Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
Narayanan, M. P., Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Yeung, Bernard Y., Associate Professor of International Business, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
School of Education
Goodman, Frederick L., Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Krajcik, Joseph S., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Moss, Pamela A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Robinson, Machree, Assistant Dean for Academic Programs, retirement furlough (phased),
July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
138




November Meeting, 1996


Law School
Kahn, Douglas A., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Paul G. Kauper Professor of Law
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Kauper, Thomas E., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law,
sabbatical leave
Krier, James E., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Earl Warren Delano Professor of Law,
contract leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Professor of Law, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave
Pooley, Beverley J., Professor of Law, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased)
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1998
Syverud, Kent D., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs,
contract leave
Vining, Joseph, Professor of Law with tenure, and Harry Burns Hutchins Collegiate
Professor of Law, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Waggoner, Lawrence W., Professor of Law, with tenure, and Lewis M. Simes Professor of
Law, contract leave
White, James B., Professor of Law, with tenure, L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Law,
Law School, and Professor of English Language and Literature, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Whitman, Christina L. B., Professor of Law and Women's Studies, with tenure, and
Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Allen, Sally L., Professor of Biology, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
September 1, 1996- Mav 31, 1998
Bell, Betty L., Assistant Professor of English, Women's Studies, and American Culture, duty
off campus
Bergstrom, Theodore C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Brown, Wesley M., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Zoology,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996, and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Casa, Frank P., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1996 -May 31,1997
Cherry, WVilliam A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997 
Chhibber, Pradeep K., Assistant Professor of Political Science, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Cloyd, Emil L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
extended sick leave, September 24-December 31, 1996
Easter, Stephen S., Jr., Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May
31, 1997, and September 1-December 31, 1997
Florida, Nancy K., Associate Professor of Indonesian Languages and Literatures, with
tenure, saleave, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Gelman, Susan A., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1996-Ma 31, 1997
Hays, Paul B., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Atmospheric,
Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced
Technololgy, sabbatical leave
Heath, Jeffrey G., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997
Hughes, Diane 0., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
January 1-Ma 31, 1997, and September 1-December 31, 1997
Jacobson, Harold K., Professor of Pohlitical Science, with tenure, and Jessee Siddal Reeves
Professor of Political Science, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1996
Jennings, M. Kent, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retirement furlough,
July 1-December 31, 1996
Jonides, John, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Kennedy, Michael D., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, duty off campus
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, with tenure, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 1996-Ma 31, 1997
Mohr, Lawrence B., Professor of Political Science, with tenure College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave September 1-December 31, 1996
Nair, Vijayan N., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, College
of Engineering, duty off campus


139




November Meeting, 1996


Perkins, Bradford, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Porter, Brian A., Assistant Professor of History, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997
Porter, Richard, Professor of Economics, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
January   1997-May 31, 1999
Rappaport, Roy A. Professor of Anthropology with tenure, and Director, Proram on
Studies in Reigion, extended sick eave, September 1, 1996-May 31, 199T
Rolston David L., Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Sameroff, Arnold J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997
Seidler, Ingo, Professor of German, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1996
Shively, Joelen, Assistant Professor of Sociology, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
Somers, Margaret R., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1 1996-May 31, 1997
Whatley, Warren 6., Professor of Economics and Afroamerican and African Studies, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Medical School
Brown, Susan S., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1, 1996-June 30, 1997
Fessler, Kathryn B., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, leave
without salary, September 12, 1996-February 2, 1997
Holmes, Ronald D., David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases and Clinical Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, extended
sick leave, June 10-30, 1996
Juni, Elliot, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1996-August 31, 1997
Kolars, Joseph C., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, leave without
salary, September 1, 1996-August 31, 1997
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
January 1 1997-December 31, 1999
Robins, Lynne ~., Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, extended sick leave, August 15-September 30, 1996
Santiaga John T Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement
furlough (phased), July 1, 1996-August 31, 2001
College of Pharmacy
West, Nina J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, extended sick leave,
May 20-June 30, 1996
School of Public Health
James, Sherman A., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Wheeler, John R. C., Professor of Management and Policy, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Health Management and Policy, sabbatical leave
School of Social Work
Gibson, Rose, Professor of Social work, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social
Work, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
Siefert, Kristine A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Argento, Alan, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Elenbogen, Bruce S., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Lev, Benjamin, Professor of Decision Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1997
Varde, Keshav S., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Dean,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1997
Yoon, David H. H., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1997


140




November Meeting, 1996


Zhao, Dongming, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Alfaro, Ricardo, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Barry, Anita K., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Bernstein, Stephen D., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Cope, Virgil W., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Filson, Thomas N., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Furman, Marva J., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Hanashiro, Roy S., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Kelling, Mary A., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Koch, Larry W., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31 1996
Meyer, William J., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Pace, Gary L., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Schilling, Kenneth E., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Svoboda, Frederic J., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Vance, Birgitta J., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Vaziri, Mojtaba, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Watkins, Marcia Y., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave
UM-Flint School of Management
Davis, Dale A., Associate Professor of Management and Accounting, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Mensah, Samuel, Assistant Professor of Finance, leave without salary, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997
CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Bloch, Anthony M., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
(previously reported as sabbatical leave)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 30, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Makinen, Kauko K., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retired
Shipman, Charles, Jr., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retired, October 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bazzett, Terence J., Lecturer II in Psycyhology, resigned, August 30, 1996
Beals, Sandra K., Lecturer I in Spanish, resigned, May 31, 1996
Cooper Andre, Assistant Professor of Linguistics, resigned, May 31, 1996
DeGraff, Michel, Assistant Professor of Linguistics, resigned, May 31, 1996
Dreiling, Michael G., Lecturer II in Sociology, resigned,December 31, 1995
Goetze, Edward R., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, resigned, June 30, 1996
Jennings, M. Kent, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1996
Kalliel, Nara, Lecturer II in Arabic Literature resigned, August 31, 1996
Krecker, Margaret L., Assistant Professor of Sociology, resigned, July 31, 1996
Li, Bao Qin, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, resigned, May 31, 1996
Livingstone, Frank B., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1996
Polly, Paul D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, resigned, August 31, 1996
141




November Meeting, 1996


Sun, Jiayang, Assistant Professor of Statistics, term complete, May 31, 1996
Weirs, Matthew G., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, term complete, December 31, 1995
Witkowski, Tadeusz, Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Medical School
Bomalaski, Martin D., Lecturer in Surgery, term complete, June 30, 1996
Hanson, Rae R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Neurology, resigned
Landefeld, Thomas D., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, resigned,
August 15,.1996
Leininger, Lisa L., Lecturer in Psychiatry, resigned, August 19, 1996
Murphy, Kieran P., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Olsen, Ronald H., Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1996
Rodriguez, Jorge L., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, resigned, August 31, 1996
Schneiderman, Todd E., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1996
Sowa, Bonnie J., Clinical Assistant Professor II ofPediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
resigned September 15, 1995
Webster, Lee S., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1996
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Patterson, Richard L., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, retired,
December 31, 1996
School of Public Health
Osborn, June E., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, and
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School,
retired
School of Social Work
Brown-Chappell, Betty L., Assistant Professor of Social Work, resigned, May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn Chancellor's Office
Skramstad, Susan C., Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, resigned
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Moch, Leslie P., Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair, Department of History,
resigned, December 31, 1995
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective August 31, 1996
School of Business Administration
Crowston, Keven G., Assistant Professor of Computer Information Systems, resigned
(previously reported as May 31, 1996)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Standish, Marc, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
(previously reported as term complete, May 31, 1996)
Retirement memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted seven faculty retirement memoirs.
Sallie R. Churchill, professor of social work in the School of Social
Work, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1996, after 28 years of
service to the University of Michigan.


142




November Meeting, 1996


Professor Churchill received her B.A. and M.S.W. degrees from the
University of Minnesota in 1949 and 1954, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree
from the University of Chicago in 1970. Following completion of her M.S.W.
degree, she worked as a senior psychiatric social group worker in a child
guidance center and as a clinical instructor in child development at the
University of Pittsburgh. She joined the faculty of the School of Social Work
as an assistant professor in 1964. In 1967, she left the University to pursue
her doctoral studies, returning in 1970. She was promoted to associate
professor in 1971 and to professor in 1976.
Professor Churchill has contributed enormously in the area of group
work, specifically with children and adolescents, adoption, and the counseling
of minors. She was a pioneer in the field of child abuse and neglect. She
regularly taught courses on working with children and adolescents and has
published on the rights of female adolescents, children's groups, and the
disruption of adoption placements. She was an active member of the
Interdisciplinary Project on Child Abuse and Neglect. Her commitment to
children has been unfailing, as demonstrated by her academic and research
activities and extensive volunteer work. Professor Churchill has also been
one of the school's most beloved teachers-encouraging, inspiring, and
supporting the students who have known her as a teacher, researcher,
clinician, and humanitarian. Students cite her ability to make concepts come
alive through her clear explanations of theory and through illustrations
drawn from her rich practical experiences. The 1996 graduating class honored
her at its graduation ceremony, noting that "...we are proud to say we were
lucky enough to have attended the University of Michigan School of Social
Work before Sallie Churchill retired."
Professor Churchill is an esteemed faculty member who has had a
significant impact on the lives of many students and who has worked
diligently to improve human service programs. In recognition of her many
contributions, she was presented with the Distinguished Faculty Award by
the School of Social Work Alumni Board of Governors in October 1995.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Sallie R.
Churchill professor emerita of social work.
D. Roger Glass, research scientist, Department of Aerospace Engineering,
College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1996,
after a 50-year career at the University of Michigan.
Mr. Glass received his B.S., M.S., and Ae.E. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1946, 1951, and 1967, respectively. He joined the University
of Michigan staff in 1946 as a research assistant. He was promoted to
research associate in 1948, research engineer in 1951, and research scientist
in 1974. He was appointed associate head of the Gas Dynamics Laboratories
of the Department of Aerospace Engineering in 1966.
Mr. Glass has made significant research and design contributions in
many areas. Early research involved theoretical calculations of the performance of
supersonic ram jets as possible propulsion systems for interceptors of
intercontinental ballistic missiles. Later, he was involved in numerous research
projects in the area of combustion.  Other areas of research included
hypersonic wind tunnel design and testing, high altitude sampling techniques,
the study of aerodynamic drag of automotive vehicles, and investigation of the


143




November Meeting, 1996


dispersion of exhaust stack gases from large buildings. He has conducted
extensive studies of the performance of automotive air bags and cooling
systems and a wide variety of subsonic wind tunnel experiments. He also
made significant contributions to the design of supersonic nozzles for blowing
oxygen into molten iron as part of the steel-making process.
As associate head of the Gas Dynamics Laboratories, Mr. Glass has
played a crucial supporting role in all experimental activities within the
Department of Aerospace Engineering. He has been a leader in ensuring the
operation and improvements of laboratory facilities and has been responsible
for the supervision of the technical staff. A significant portion of his activities
has included teaching, advising, and working with students involved in
experimental research. His kind and expert advice and assistance have helped
to smooth the path for many Ph.D. students. In recognition of his outstanding
service, he received the Departmental Service Award in 1995. Mr. Glass's
retirement following his 50-year commitment to the Department of Aerospace
Engineering leaves a gap that will be difficult to fill.
The Regents now salute this research scientist by naming D. Roger Glass
research scientist emeritus.
Kauko K. Mikinen, professor of dentistry, retired from active faculty
status on September 30, 1996.
A native of Finland, Professor Makinen received his B.A. degree in 1964, his
M.S. degree in biochemistry in 1964, his Licentiate in Philosophy (biochemistry)
in 1966 from the University of Turku in Turku, Finland, and his Ph.D. degree in
biochemistry in 1969 from the University of Helsinki in Helsinki, Finland. He
was appointed instructor in anatomy at the University of Oulu in Oulu,
Finland, in 1964. He served as teacher in microbiological chemistry at the
Turku Trade School and chemist at the University of Turku Dental School in
1965. Professor Mikinen was a senior lecturer urein enzymology at the University
of Helsinki and an associate professor of dental biochemistry at the University
of Turku in 1970. He also served as a visiting scientist at the National Institute
of Dental Research in Bethesda, Maryland, from 1975-76, a senior research
fellow at the Academy of Finland in 1979, and a visiting professor of biochemistry and biophysics at Texas A&M University from 1979-80. Professor
Makinen joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Dentistry as
a visiting professor in 1984 and was promoted to professor with tenure in 1986.
Professor Mikinen is a member of the Omicron Kappa Upsilon honor
society, the Biochemical Society of London, the American Institute of
Nutrition, and the New York Academy of Science. He has served as a
member or held office in a number of professional societies, including the
Organization for European Caries Research, the International Association for
Dental Research, the Finnish Dental Society, the European Research Group
for Oral Biology, and the Federation Dentaire International.
Professor Makinen has contributed to scientific literature through
professional journals, as well as through chapters in several textbooks. For
over 20 years, his major research focus has been on the effect of xylitol (a
sugar alcohol) on dental caries.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Kauko K. Makinen professor emeritus of dentistry.


144




November Meeting, 1996


Helen F. Meranda, senior associate librarian at the Taubman Library,
retired on June 30, 1995, after 45 years of service.
Ms. Meranda received her A.B. degree in 1949 and her A.M.L.S. degree in
1951, both from the University of Michigan. She began her career as a
student assistant and was appointed a junior circulation librarian at the
General Library (now the Graduate Library) when she finished her degree;
later that year she became junior medical librarian and in 1953 junior
divisional librarian (medical). Through the years, she has been a circulation
librarian, a serials librarian, and a reference librarian. At retirement, with
the rank of senior associate librarian, she had been for several years the
collection development officer at Taubman and also bore responsibility for the
management of the Rare Book Room and its collections-her first love.
During her career, Ms. Meranda participated in two moves of the library,
from the General Library (now the Graduate Library) to the Kresge Building
and then to the Taubman Medical Library. She was involved in and
contributed to the increasing automation of library procedures, in particular
the introduction of the MEDLARS system in the 1960s, which was the
beginning of the electronic era in health sciences libraries. Ms. Meranda
accepted with grace those changes which increased library "efficiency" at the
expense of personal contact with the users. She worked with a total of seven
library directors, all of whom benefited from her wise counsel.
Ms. Meranda has made a significant contribution to the library. Her
extensive knowledge of the collections and her high standards in selecting
materials for them have made the library one of the country's best. She
mentored and advised both subordinates and supervisors throughout her career.
The Regents now salute this distinguished staff member by naming
Helen F. Meranda senior associate librarian emerita.
June E. Osborn, M.D., professor of epidemiology in the School of
Public Health and professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on September 30, 1996.
Dr. Osborn received her A.B. degree from Oberlin College in 1957 and
her M.D. degree from Case Western Reserve University in 1961. She trained
as a pediatric resident at Boston Children's and Massachusetts General
Hospitals from 1961-64 and from 1964-66 was a postdoctoral fellow in
virology and infectious diseases at The Johns Hopkins University and the
University of Pittsburgh. From 1966-84, she served on the faculty of the
University of Wisconsin Medical School. She joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1984 as dean and professor of epidemiology in the School
of Public Health and professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in the
Medical School. She served as dean until 1993.
Dr. Osborn's leadership of the School of Public Health was marked by a
period of overall growth and by progress in improving the school's diversity
through the recruitment of more women and minorities into the student body
and faculty. Dr. Osborn initiated a post-doctoral program for minority scholars
to prepare them for success in faculty positions and enhanced academic
outreach through establishment of the nonresidential "On Job/On Campus"
program.
Dr. Osborn has achieved international prominence for her activities during
the AIDS epidemic. She served as chair of the U.S. National Commission on


145




November Meeting, 1996


AIDS (1989-93) and served on the Global Commission on AIDS of the World
Health Organization. She also has been an advisor in the areas of virology,
infectious diseases and vaccines, health care, public health, and public policy
for a number of government agencies. She chaired the National Advisory
Committee for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's AIDS Health Services
Project and served on the Public Advisory Board for the Pew/Rockefeller Health
of the Public Program and the board of trustees of the Kaiser Family Foundation. Dr. Osborn has received numerous honors and holds honorary degrees
from several universities. In 1986, she was elected to membership in the
Institute of Medicine.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
June E. Osborn professor emerita of epidemiology and professor emerita of
pediatrics and communicable diseases.
Hansjoerg Schelle, professor of German, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1996.
Professor Schelle received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Zurich
in 1967. He served as the co-director of the Wieland Museum and Wieland
Archives in Biberach, Germany, from 1953-70 and held positions at the Lycee
Condorcet in Paris (1956-57) and the University of Cincinnati (1966-67)
before joining the University of Michigan faculty in 1967 as assistant
professor of German. He was promoted to associate professor in 1973 and
professor in 1980.
Professor Schelle's research focused on eighteenth-century German literature and culture, particularly on the work of the important writer, Wieland.
Having published a dissertation on the twentieth-century writer Ernst Jinger,
Professor Schelle turned his hand to editing important scholarly volumes on
Wieland and eventually to the preparation of a comprehensive bibliography on
Wieland. He also published many articles on Wieland in prestigious journals
such as the Jahrbuch der Deutschen Schillergesellschaft and the Jahrbuch des
Freien Deutschen Hochstifts.
Professor Schelle was active in several scholarly organizations, including
the Lessing Society and the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies.
He taught regular graduate courses on eighteenth-century German literature
and culture and supervised the completion of two doctoral dissertations.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Hansj6erg
Schelle professor emeritus of German.
Charles Shipman, Jr., professor of dentistry, retired from active
faculty status on October 31, 1996.
Dr. Shipman received his A.B. degree from the University of California in
1956, his M.S. degree from Fresno State College in 1963, and his Ph.D. degree
from Indiana University in 1966. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan in 1968 as assistant professor of dentistry in the Dental School and
assistant professor of microbiology in the Medical School. He was promoted to
associate professor of dentistry in 1974 and associate professor of microbiology
in 1975, and was promoted to professor of dentistry in 1984.
He is a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon, Sigma Xi, and Beta Beta Beta
honor societies. Dr. Shipman has served on numerous Dental School, Medical
School, and University-wide committees, and served on the Michigan
Department of Public Health Ad Hoc Advisory Group on the HIV-Infected
146




November Meeting, 1996


Health Care Worker. Dr. Shipman has also been a member or officer in a
number of professional societies, including the American Society for Microbiology, the Tissue Culture Association, the Society for General Microbiology,
the Inter-American Society for Chemotherapy, and the American Society for
Virology. He has consulted nationally and has served on the editorial boards of
Antiviral Research and Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy.
Dr. Shipman has mentored postdoctoral students throughout his career.
He has also published journal articles and textbook chapters, and has been an
invited lecturer at national and international meetings.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Charles Shipman, Jr., professor emeritus of dentistry.
Memorials. No deaths were reported this month.
Degrees. Secretary Palmer and Provost Machen submitted the final
degree lists for the May and August, 1996, commencements; the December
1996 Doctoral Degree List; and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The meeting recessed at 3:55 p.m. to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Chetly Zarko, citizen, on the results of the presidential
selection process; and Probir Mehta, vice president of Michigan Student
Assembly, on the need for child care among students.
Friday, November 15, 1996
The Regents met at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Interim President Neal and Regents Baker, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Also present were Provost Machen, Executive
Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and
Neidhardt, as well as Chancellor Renick and Secretary Palmer. Provost
Desmond attended in place of Chancellor Nelms, who was absent. Regent
Deitch was not present, but participated in the meeting via telephone.
General Remarks - Interim President Neal
Interim President Neal called the meeting to order. He congratulated
the Regents on having successfully concluded the presidential search process.
In the area of technology transfer, he reported that Aviron, a licensee of
University technology in which the University owns equity, has completed an
initial public offering.  This is a first for the University, and its equity
portion is currently valued at approximately $2 million.
He also reported on various recent activities of the president's office,
highlights of which include the announcement of the President's Initiative
Fund competition, the work of the University of Michigan Advisory Panel
(UMAP), progress on expanding research opportunities for undergraduate
students, and the hosting of an event with Ann Arbor City Council.
147




November Meeting, 1996


Comments from Vice President Harrison
NCAA Certification. Vice President Harrison reported that he had
chaired the NCAA certification committee, which undertook the most
comprehensive review of the intercollegiate athletic program ever undertaken
by the University. The review was done in the form of a self study and a
draft of the final report has been completed. After the report has been
submitted, an external review team will visit the campus and complete a
separate report. He thanked everyone who had participated in the review.
Michigan Radio (WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM). Vice President Harrison
announced the Michigan Radio had just completed the most successful fundraising drive in its history. He called on Mr. Donovan Reynolds, director of
broadcasting, who commented on the success of the fundraiser. Mr. Reynolds
introduced Ms. Shelley MacMillan, the station's promotions director who had
organized the campaign, and Ms. Joan Siefert-Rose, the new program director.
Mr. Reynolds described some of the new initiatives that the stations'
improved financial position will enable it to undertake.
Admissions Programs
Interim President Neal noted that it had been suggested at the July
meeting that the University review its programs designed to broaden access
to its educational opportunities and report back on the status of these
programs at the October meeting. It was also suggested that the review
include consultation with outside counsel. The University has consulted
with Martin Michaelson, a national expert in the area of affirmative action
law, and due to the cancellation of the October meeting, he was reporting
back to the Regents at this time.
Report to the Regents on the Status of Admissions Programs
At the beginning, let me say that the University of Michigan, like
other leading universities, has long valued the maintenance of a
diverse student body, including women, underrepresented minorities,
and students of other diverse backgrounds and life experiences. It is
our abiding conviction that the quality of the educational experience of
all students at the University is enhanced by living and learning in
such a community. In its landmark Bakke decision, the United States
Supreme Court approved promotion of student diversity. As Justice
Powell said in his opinion, it is proper to take race or ethnicity into
account as a "plus" in considering applicants for admission, but racial
or ethnic quotas are not permissible. We are committed to having our
admissions programs conform to these sound principles of educational
policy and law.
To ensure our compliance with current law, we have asked the
University's deans and directors of admissions if, in the admissions
process for their schools or colleges, an applicant's membership in an
underrepresented minority group is considered.  To those who
responded it is, we then asked the following questions:


148




November Meeting, 1996


* In making admissions decisions, does your school or college
compare minority and non minority candidates with each other?
* Does your school or college administer goals for admission of
underrepresented minority students in a flexible manner? That is,
we asked if the goals are used only as desired outcomes for which
to strive and not as quotas.
We asked:
* Are the admissions policies and procedures of your school or
college intended to create a diverse educational environment?
and finally:
* Are all students who are admitted to your school or college
academically qualified for admission?
I am pleased to report to you that the responses to these questions
were "yes. "
Vice Provost Lester Monts has been chairing a committee since
April charged by Provost Machen to review all affirmative action
activities of the University. Through that mechanism and other efforts
we shall continue to review the various outreach, admissions, aid, and
other activities of the University to ensure that we are proceeding
properly, fairly, and effectively to serve our mission in the public
interest and in compliance with the law.
Regent McFee commented that this statement places the issue in
appropriate perspective.
Establishment of Position of Executive Vice President for Medical
Affairs
Regent McFee moved creation of the new position of executive vice
president for medical affairs, as described in the Regents Communication,
and authorization to begin the search to fill this position. Regent Varner
seconded the motion. Regent McFee observed that all of the Regents have
given a great deal of thought to the creation of this position, and she looks
forward to its being filled.
Regent Baker observed that it will be important that the person selected
for the position have a broad understanding of the business side, as well as
the medical side, of the medical affairs enterprise.
Regent McGowan commented that this position is "the best job in academic
medicine in the country, and I fully expect we will have a very competitive,
outstanding 'A' list of candidates." Regent Deitch commented that his vote
would be "an enthusiastic yes."
The vote was then taken and it was approved unanimously.


149




November Meeting, 1996


State Auditor General Report and Response-Performance Audit
of Intercollegiate Athletics
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the summary of the
recommendations and the University's response to the State Auditor General
Report and Response-Performance Audit of Intercollegiate Athletics at the
University of Michigan for the period July 1, 1993, through June 30, 1995.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
voted unanimously to accept the report and approve the response.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the Six Month Report on
University Audits for the period April 1, 1996, through September 30, 1996.
Financial Report for the University of Michigan for the Year Ended
June 30, 1996
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the summary version of
the Financial Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.
University of Michigan 1996 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1996
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the University of Michigan 1996 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended
June 30, 1996.
Commitment of $54.5 Million of the Long Term Portfolio to Five
Alternative Asset Investments
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents of five
follow-on investments that had been made according to a policy adopted by
the Regents in 1994. The five investments were in TA/Advent VIII, L.P.;
Menlo Ventures VII, L.P.; CMD Realty Investment Fund III, L.P.; Brookdale
Investors Two, L.P.; and Douglas Emmett Realty Fund 1996. Complete information on these investments can be found in the Regents Communication.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $10 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to Lone Star Opportunity Fund, L.P., and up to $5 million of the
Long Term Portfolio to Worldview Technology Partners I, L.P., pending
favorable legal review of the documents by the Office of the General Counsel.
Energy Common Stock Manager
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of State Street Research &
Management as an energy common stock investment manager.
In response to a question from Regent Power about the tactical asset
allocation program, Executive Vice President Womack responded that


150




November Meeting, 1996


Treasurer's Office staff continue to monitor the situation and evaluate the
timing as to when the University would begin to reduce its exposure to the
tactical asset allocation strategy.
School of Dentistry Kellogg Building Expansion and Renovation
Mr. Douglas Hanna, university architect, gave a presentation describing a
proposed project for expansion and renovation of the School of Dentistry's
Kellogg Building. Following the presentation, Regent Power moved approval of
the project and site and appointment of Jickling Lyman and Powell as architect
for the School of Dentistry's Kellogg Building Expansion and Renovation
Project. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Palmer Drive Parking Structure Project
Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, gave a presentation describing a
proposed parking structure to be located east of the dental school at Palmer
Drive. Mr. Mayer displayed maps of the site and noted that the architect
would be asked to work with planning consultants to look at the overall
strategy for the development of this zone to address the siting of future
academic facilities and the circulation patterns between the medical center
and central campus and central campus and the residence halls on "the Hill."
Approval for recommendations of an overall development pattern for the site
and a recommended footprint for the sight will be sought at a future meeting.
Permission is now being sought to initiate the planning for the project and to
appoint the architect.
Regent Baker raised the question of the Gateway Project that had been
planned for that site. It was noted that the original program for this project
had included a parking structure component, around which the academic
facilities could be situated.
Regent Baker moved approval of the project and site located east of the
Dental School on Palmer Drive and authorization for the appointment of
Luckenbach/Ziegelman and Partners in association with Zimmer Gunsul Frasca
Partnership as architect. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Renovations to Tunnel Serving Stockwell Hall
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved replacement of the domestic hot water piping
supply and return lines in the tunnel serving Stockwell Hall.
University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation
Project Phase III
Chancellor Renick reported that the Dearborn campus is very excited
about the construction of a new College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Building. Mr. Fred Mayer gave a presentation describing the project and the
proposed site. Following the presentation, on a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the project
and proposed site for the University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,


151




November Meeting, 1996


Sciences, and Letters Building segment of the General Campus Renovation
Project Phase III.
Tennis Center Phase II
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved increasing the scope of Phase II of the Tennis Center
project, as described in the Regents Communication. Regents Newman and
Power were away from the table for this and the six subsequent votes.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Fisher
Baseball Stadium upgrades; 2) North Hall elevator replacement; 3) Central
Campus Recreation Building elevator replacement; 4) Renovation of space in
the Herbert H. Dow Building for an Integrated Machining Systems
Laboratory; 5) Replacement of piping and expansion joints in the tunnel
serving Hatcher Graduate Library South; 6) Installation of electrical and
telecommunications lines in the State Street utility corridor; 7) increase in the
scope and budget for the previously approved remodeling and expansion of the
Hoover Building A; 8) Renovation of the UM-Flint Classroom Office Building.
Membership in the M-Care Board of Directors
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointments of Larry Warren and A.
Lorris Betz, M.D. as members of the M-Care board of directors.
University Hospital Cardiology B1 Level Renovation
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for renovation of the Cardiology Department's
diagnostic and treatment areas on the B1 level of University Hospital and
submission of two Certificates of Need, as described in the Regents Communication.
Michigan Operating Room Data Management System (MORcare)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the Operating Room Data Management
System (MORcare), as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals Time and Attendance System
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved purchase of the FASTECH time and
attendance system for University of Michigan Hospitals, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Publishing Agreement with interRAI
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, all five
Regents present plus Regent Deitch approved a publishing agreement with
interRAI. Because the president of interRAI, Dr. Brant E. Fries, is also a


152




November Meeting, 1996


University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and interRAI.
2.  Terms of the contract include payment to the University of 4.71
percent of total consideration received by interRAI for commercial
publication, if any, of RAI-HC, and certain reservations allowing
continued research use by the University.
3.  Dr. Fries' potential for pecuniary interest arises from his presidency
of the nonprofit corporation proposing to license the materials. Dr.
Fries will not share personally in any revenues generated to the
University through the license of these materials.
Regent Newman returned to the table at this point.
Research License from Metabolic Solutions, Inc. (MSI)
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of a research license by the University
from Metabolic Solutions, Inc., for use of the Erythromycin Breath Test
(EBT) in sponsored research projects, as described in the license. Because
Paul B. Watkins is both a University of Michigan employee and the owner of
the patented technology described as EBT, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the Agreement are Metabolic Solutions, Inc., and the
University of Michigan.
2.  The University will be licensed to use the EBT without cost to the
University in any sponsored research project provided that Dr.
Watkins is a participating investigator in the project.
3.  In sponsored projects utilizing this license, Paul B. Watkins may
receive a portion of his University salary; however, he will play no
role and will not receive any compensation from MSI relative to this
project without first disclosing same to the appropriate University
Conflict of Interest committee for review and approval.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement with Rebus Planning Associates,
Inc. Because the co-owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Samuel J. Meisels,
is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Rebus
Planning Associates, Inc.
2.  Contract terms include a yearly license fee to the University for
$1,000; exclusive right to use, create derivative works, market and


153




November Meeting, 1996


grant sublicenses to the program. Rebus Planning Associates grants
the University of Michigan a royalty free license to fully use its
derivative works for internal research and education.  The
University will retain ownership of the program and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool. No use of University
services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated under the agreement.
3.  Professor Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership
interest in Rebus Planning Associates. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University
from the company.
Regent Power returned to the table at this point.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Carl Henderson
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and Carl Henderson for development of the MBX software
package. Because Mr. Henderson is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Carl
Henderson.
2.  Terms of the agreement include a license fee to the University of
$1,000; exclusive right to use, create derivative works, and market
the program. Mr. Henderson grants the University of Michigan a
royalty free license to fully use and modify any derivative works he
develops as a consultant for internal research and education. The
University will retain ownership of the program and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool. No use of University
services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated under the agreement.
3.  Mr. Henderson's pecuniary interest arises from  his personal
consulting contracts which will involve use and sublicensing of this
University property. He has waived any personal participation in
the sharing of royalties received by the University.
Purchasing Agreements between the University of Michigan and
Various Private Dental Practices
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved agreements between the University of
Michigan and four private dental practices for conduct of a clinical study by a
faculty member in the dental school. Because the owners of the private
dental practices from which the study subjects will be drawn are also
University of Michigan faculty members, the agreements fall under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.  The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


154




November Meeting, 1996


1.  Parties to the agreements are Cori K. Crider, D.D.S.; Donald R.
Heys, D.D.S.; Carl T. Woolley, D.D.S.; Peter Yaman, D.D.S.
2.  Terms of the agreements will be consistent with University purchase
orders. The proposed compensation is a fixed amount of $1,630 per
completed patient.  The private practitioners will not be
participating in the study through their university appointments.
Agreements between the University of Michigan and Automated
Analysis, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved agreements between the University of Michigan and
Automated Analysis, Inc. under which Automated Analysis would fund two
research projects at the University of Michigan.  Because William  J.
Anderson is both an officer of Automated Analysis and a University of
Michigan employee, these agreements fall under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the Agreement are the University of Michigan and
Automated Analysis, Inc.
2.  Terms of the Agreement will be consistent with University policy
regarding research. Both projects include full indirect cost recovery.
Dr. Anderson will not be involved in the conduct or supervision of
the research projects at the University.
University of Michigan Ann Arbor Campus FY98 State Budget
Request
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the FY1998 state budget request for the Ann
Arbor campus.
University of Michigan-Dearborn 1997-98 State Budget Request
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Varner, the
Regents unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn
1997-98 state budget request.
University of Michigan-Flint 1997-98 State Budget Request
On a motion boy Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Flint 1997-98
state budget request.
Child Care Task Force Report and Recommendations
Regent McGowan moved approval of a student fee increase of $1.00 per
student per term plus matching funds from the General Fund on a one to one
basis for the purpose of providing child care scholarships for student parents, as
described in the Regents Communication. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Regent Newman stated that she feels strongly that matching funds
should not come from the General Fund, and believes that she can raise the


155




November Meeting, 1996


matching funds from private sources for this one-year pilot program. She
offered to make a substantial contribution of her own and to take it upon
herself to raise the matching funds by the end of the year.
Regent McGowan noted that this is not to be a one-year pilot program;
rather it is to establish a program for assessing a fee of $1.00 per student per
term with a General Fund match, on an ongoing basis, to continue indefinitely
unless the student vote is rescinded.
Provost Machen agreed with Regent McGowan's interpretation of the
action request.
Regent Newman stated that she would like a guarantee that if the
matching funds are raised privately, matching money would not come out of
the General Fund.
Regent Horning observed that his understanding was that this is to be a
pilot program, and that he had been prepared to support the proposal for one
year based on that understanding. He also emphasized that his support is
for students only, not for faculty and staff. By the end of the one-year pilot
period, he expects the task force to have come forward with a plan as to how
to generate the matching funds outside of the General Fund.
Regent McFee pointed out that no General Fund expenditures are ever
made in perpetuity, and that whether or not a program is designated as
being a pilot, its status would be reviewed and voted on every year. She
suggested that the motion could state that private funds would be used for
the match to the extent that private funds are available, but that beyond
that, General Funds would be used.      Regent Newman expressed
disagreement with that proposal.
Vice President Hartford observed that the student referendum was not
for a pilot program. Provost Machen reiterated that "the commitment to
child care is not a pilot commitment." The proposal now before the Board is,
in effect, an interim proposal as part of a comprehensive plan that will be
coming forward at a later date.
Regent Power clarified that the issue is whether General Fund money
should be spent on child care. He believes the answer is yes, because
General Fund money is already being spent on a variety of other activities
designed to maximize access to the University. Regent Newman has raised
the issue of whether or not private fundraising should be substituted for a
policy commitment to expend General Fund money on a regular, annual,
reviewed basis, for child care. Although he believes that child care would be
a worthwhile vehicle for which to raise private funds, that issue should not
be confused with the Board's policy decision to expend General Funds money
for the purposes of child care.
Regent Baker cautioned that passage of this motion would be the
equivalent of the "camel's nose under the tent," citing other examples of
student-approved fees for support of such programs as PIRGIM, the Ann
Arbor Tenants Union, and Student Legal Services that expanded in scope
and continued to draw money from students many years after initially being


156




November Meeting, 1996


approved. He suggested that rather than approve the funding at this point, a
study should be conducted and a comprehensive plan should be devised for
dealing with the whole issue of child care.
Regent Deitch made the following points in support of the motion: 1) It is
important to support a referendum that was initiated by students, and that
takes a more perceptive view of access than has been taken in the past. 2) He
believes this is an issue of access involving making the University more available to nontraditional students. As a public university, the question of access
is a public responsibility and thereby is a policy question. 3) Regarding the
issue of private funding, he believes that although the creation of an
endowment for child care is a positive notion, it should not dictate whether
or not the Board commits to this program. Funds should be committed
because the notion was approved by students and to address the access issue.
He cautioned against having policy decisions dictated on an ad hoc basis by
an individual Regent's desire to raise private funds in lieu of not having an
otherwise worthwhile program go forward.
Regent Newman clarified that her intent is that if she is not successful
in raising the funds, General Funds could then be used. She is only asking
for the opportunity to see whether or not this program could be funded
privately.
Regent Varner noted that the key issues are that students did vote for
this; that student aid is already being provided from the General Fund and
thus precedent is not being set; and that this program is another means of
maintaining accessibility. The issue of fundraising should not affect these
efforts.
Following further discussion, Regent Baker offered a substitute motion
adding language to the current motion that the program be terminated in
one year unless there is a comprehensive overview of long term costs.
Regent McFee suggested that if the proposal goes forward, some of the
funds could be used to explore what the need is and what is being done to
meet these needs and what private funds can be developed to support the
ongoing need. A clear statement of need would enhance the opportunity for
private funding. When funding for the child care fee comes up for renewal,
the program will have been reviewed to see what progress has been made in
developing the statement of need.
Regent Deitch expressed that he did not agree that child care for
students must have private support in order to be justified. Rather, it should
be viewed as a continuation of the institutional commitment to access and
diversity, while recognizing that it is also institutional policy to defray
expenditures through endowments wherever possible.
Regent Baker restated his substitute motion that the program would
terminate in one year. Regent McFee stated that she would second Regent
Baker's substitute motion if the language stated that at the end of one year,
before the fee is renewed, all of the details of what has happened and what
plans have been made be reviewed by the Regents. Regent Baker accepted
that alternate language, so his substitute motion was seconded.
157




November Meeting, 1996


Regent McFee restated the substitute motion as being the original
motion with the additional language that at the end of a year, the program
will be thoroughly reviewed. Regent McGowan noted that the task force is
already charged with such a review. Regent McFee clarified that her motion
is restating that.
Interim President Neal pointed out that Provost Machen already is
charged with making budgetary decisions regarding competing demands for
financial aid requests, and perhaps such decisions should be left to him, with
the policy decision left to the Board.
Regent Newman responded that although she wants to support the
students and access to the institution, she is personally not ready to create a
new category of fee at this time.
Regent McFee withdrew her second to Regent Baker's substitute
motion, since it appears that it is only restating what is in the original
motion.
The vote was then taken on the original motion, and it was approved,
with Regents Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner in
favor, and Regents Baker and Newman opposed. Regent Baker stated his
opposition was based on the fact that the proposal had come before the
Board not having been fully studied by the administration as he had
previously requested. Regent Horning noted that his support is based on the
fact that he had believed that the matching portion of the proposal was to
have been a one-year pilot program. Therefore, he would not automatically
support the program  again in one year.  Regent Newman stated her
opposition was based on the fact that she does not believe that the General
Fund should be used for this purpose.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical
staff membership.
Henry Russel Lecturer
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of William E. Bolcom, the
Ross Lee Finney Distinguished University Professor of Music, as the Henry
Russel Lecturer for 1997.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Baker read the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on November 15, 1996, in the Regents' Room, for the
purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation (section 8e) and


158




November Meeting, 1996


of considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the
Michigan Freedom of Information Act (section 8h). Such exempt
material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session, beginning at 12:10 p.m.
Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 4:30 p.m. The next meeting is scheduled for
December 19-20, 1996. Regents' expenses for the month of September 1996
totaled $767.60 and for October 1996 totaled $6,917.92.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


159




SPECIAL MEETING, NOVEMBER 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Friday, November 22, 1996
A special meeting of the Board of Regents commenced via telephone
conference call at 4:30 p.m. Present were Regents Baker, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, and Power. Regents Deitch and Varner did not join the
call. Also present were Interim President Neal, Executive Vice President
Womack, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Neidhardt and Harrison, Secretary
Palmer, and General Counsel Cole.
Executive Session Motion
Regent McFee offered the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on November 22, 1996, for the purpose of consulting with
our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection
with specific pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously by
those present. The meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


161




DECEMBER MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 19, 1996
The Regents met at 1:50 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Interim President Neal and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Also present were Executive Vice
President Womack, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford,
and Kinnear, Chancellors Nelms and Renick, and Secretary Palmer.
Assistant Vice President Judith Nowack attended in the stead of Vice
President Neidhardt, who was absent.
Provost's Report. Interim President Neal called the meeting to order
and called on Provost Machen. Provost Machen introduced Ms. Heather
Stoll, a University student who has been selected as a British Marshall
Scholar for 1997-99. He reviewed her accomplishments that had led to her
selection for this honor, and Ms. Stoll received a round of applause.
Community Family Health Center
Provost Machen introduced Ada Sue Hinshaw, dean of the School of
Nursing, and Beverly Jones, associate hospital director/chief of nursing affairs
and associate dean of the School of Nursing, to describe the proposed
Community Family Health Center. Provost Machen observed that this program is viewed as an educational venture sponsored by the Office of the Provost,
with support from the University of Michigan Health System.
Dean Hinshaw described the health center as a community-based
educational and service unit intended to provide high quality primary care
through a partnership model, in which health care is delivered primarily
through nurse practitioners working with collaborating physicians and other
health care providers. Dean Hinshaw and Associate Dean Jones reviewed
the center's objectives and described the type of health care to be provided
and collaborations that are envisioned with community organizations.
With respect to funding, Dean Hinshaw said that the center would be
established with a $400,000 award from the University of Michigan Health
System and the School of Nursing and a gift from a donor of $100,000. The
business plan provides that this funding plus revenues from the operation of
the center would allow it to break even and begin to earn money by the
beginning of year five.
Following the discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of the
Community Family Health Center, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


163




December Meeting, 1996


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the special
meetings dated October 14 and 29 and November 12, 1996, the meetings of the
Presidential Search Committee dated October 17, 18, 21, 22, 24, 28, and
November 5, 1996. She also submitted the minutes for the meeting of
November 14-15, 1996.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted the following
reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor
Relations.
Acting Vice President Neidhardt submitted the following reports: Projects
Established and Current Research and Sponsored Projects. The Faculty
Governance Update was also submitted.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of
voluntary support for the month of November 1996.
Air Products Foundation, Allentown, Pennsylvania
for the Orientation Programs Fund, School of Business Administration
and for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering......... $ 6,000
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Herbert D. Allee, Jr., Bettendorf, Iowa
200 shares of AT&T common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,513
American Cancer Society, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division........................ 63,247
American Foundation for AIDS Research, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  19,800
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research and other support in the Schools of Nursing and Public Health... 19,276
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts............................................  12,060
Anonymous
for support of the Museum   of Art........................................  5,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching  gifts............................................  20,025
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,375
Avon Products Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  7,350
Azalea Foundation, Wyckoff, New Jeresy
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Richard E. Balzhiser, Menlo Park, California
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
BASF Corporation, Mount Olive, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
Mrs. Wallis F. Baubie, Ocean Ridge, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 12,000
Carl F. Beaver Estate
for the Carl Beaver Endowed Trust Scholarship in the Medical School,
and for the Hannah Catherine Beaver Scholarship in the School of Music...... 5,535
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship..................   40,000
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
1,546 shares of Delaware Trend mutual fund
for the Eve and Albert Berg Memorial Loan Fund and the William
Martel Professorship in the Medical School............................... 24,830


164




December Meeting, 1996


Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. Binda Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning....................................  50,000
Boone & Crockett Foundation, Missoula, Montana
for the Endangered Species Gift Fund in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment..................................................... 5,000
Robert W. and Lynn Browne, Ada
2,670 shares of Pfizer common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, the
Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Dentistry, and the Robert W. and Lynn H. Browne Professorship
in Science in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 235,293
G. Cleaves Byers Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 50,000
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
1,271 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 42,022
James A. Campbell Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 100,000
Rod Campbell, Dearborn
for the Save-A-Heart Campaign in the Medical School...................... 5,000
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  matchin g  gifts......................................5,250
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, Concord, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in the College of Engineering..................................... 20,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Chrysler Corporation Engineering Scholarship and Fellowship
Fund, the Minority Engineering Program and other support in the
College of Engineering................................................ 20,000
Circon ACMI, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund
in the Medical School.................................................. 5,000
Goldie B. Corneliuson Trust
for support in the Medical School.........                          47,139
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 9,875
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................... 8,100
Willametta K. Day Foundation, Los Angeles, Calfornia
for the Gayle Sweetland Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, in memory of Gayle Morris Sweetland................. 6,667
Delta Dental Plan of Michigan, Lansing
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry.... 8,000
Manuel L. del Valle, San Juan, Puerto Rico
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  13,007
Elizabeth B. Dexter, Ann Arbor
for the building fund in the School of Social Work; and for support
in the School of Music, in memory of Benning Dexter....................... 6,000
A. Richard Diebold, Jr., Tucson, Arizona
595 shares of Clintrials Research, Inc., common stock
for the Middle English Dictionary Fund.................................. 21,569
Robert F. DiRomualdo, Ann Arbor
365 shares of Office Max common stock
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,019
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  8,000
Electronic Data Systems, Piano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and for
support in the School of Management, the University of Michigan-Dearborn... 9,854
Robert C. Emde, Bloomfield Hills
141 shares of A. J. Heinz common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business Administration... 5,147
Thomas and Elaine Evans Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Music, the Museum of Art and
the University Hospitals; and for the University Musical Society............. 5,000
165




December Meeting, 1996


Paul P. Fan, Irvine, California
150 shares of Beckman Instruments, Inc., common stock
for support in the Medical School........................................ 5,498
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education................................. 36,200
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Industrial Affiliates Program and other support in the College
of Engineering...................................................... 35,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Schools of Business Administration, Medicine and
Natural Resources and Environment, the Colleges of Engineering and
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the Henry Ford Estate
at Fair Lane, the Center for Engineering Education and Practice and
other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 1,111,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Paul F. Gelter, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for the Faculty for
the Future Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 210,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts............................................ 61,647
Martin R. Goldman, SouthfieId
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration.............................................. 10,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
G. R. Group, Inc., Bowling Green, Ohio
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.................................  10,000
David M. Grant, Los Angeles, California
for the Hiroshima Exchange Program in the College of Engineering in
memory of Robert A. Grant........................................ 6,250
Eric J. Grant, Ann Arbor
for the Hiroshima Exchange Program in the College of Engineering in
memory  of Robert A. Grant.............................................  6,250
Gordon Grant, Worchester, Massachusetts
for the Hiroshima Exchange Program in the College of Engineering in
memory  of Robert A. Grant.............................................  6,250
Evelyn G. Hart Estate
for the Evelyn G. Hart Scholarship in the School of Music.................. 26,186
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
200 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,238
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hays, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School............. 15,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hils
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment, University Library... 32,500
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics...................  5,000
Tony Wolf Hoffman Estate
for the Tony Wolf Hoffman Merit Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration.............................................  100,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the IMRA Fellowship in the College of Engineering.................... 7,500
Mary Frances Janes Estate
for the Mary Frances Janes Faculty Support Fund in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  28,702
Larry L. Johnson, Orchard Lake
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School.....................................   100,068
Maxine A. Krause Estate
for the Robert D. Krause Fellowship in the School of Public Policy.   100,000
Thomas E. Kruger, Jr., Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,000


166




December Meeting, 1996


Kenneth J. LaMotte, Birmingham
500 shares of Ico International, Ltd., common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  24,156
Catherine A. Levitski Estate
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School........................... 5,000
David E. Liddle, Portola Valley, California
for the David E. Liddle Fund in the College of Engineering................. 15,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,750
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education................................. 305,000
Olive Madigan, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics...............................  25,000
Elizabeth N. Mall, Ann Arbor
110 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for the Willis Dean Nance Athletic Scholarship, Department of Athletics...... 5,634
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,500
Philip J. Marsh Estate
for the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Program...................................  13,830
C. Blake McDowell Jr., Akron, Ohio
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  7,500
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the building fund in the School of Social Work......................... 70,000
William C. Melvin, Richland
135 shares of Enron Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Business
Administration, the College of Engineering and the Division of Kinesiology.... 6,024
Midwest Eye-Banks and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,989
Donald H. Miller Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 25,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morey Professorship in the Medical School.............. 15,000
Alice W. Moore Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 40,000
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, for the M.F.A. Director's
Discretionary Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for the University Library and Musical Society................. 9,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for electrical and computer engineering support and the Minority
Engineering Program in the College of Engineering....................... 12,000
Irene M.-Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................. 10,000
William D. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
John M. Nannes, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School.......................................... 20,000
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc.,
New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 5,500
National Foundation for Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  Medical School.......................................  6,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School....... 20,000
Northco Equities Corporation, New York, New York
for support in the Division of Kinesiology.................................  5,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.......................................  9,945
David and Lucile Packard Foundation Los Altos, California
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 25,000
Stuart and Barbara Padnos Foundation, Holland
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000


167




December Meeting, 1996


Paideia Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 6,250
Richard H. Pao, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Union Carbide and 500 shares of Praxair common stock
for the Professor Miranda Lee Pao Memorial Fund, School of Information.... 44,719
Robert W. Pasque Trust
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Robert H. Peacock, Houston, Texas
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering........... 5,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, New York
for the Pepsi-Cola Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....... 50,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Institute for Social Research.......................... 141,000
Roy Pierce, Ann Arbor
200 shares of International Business Machines, Inc., common stock
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art...................... 26,738
Pontiac Fire Fighters Union Good and Welfare, Pontiac
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School....... 13,000
Post 29 Amvets, Mount Clemens
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund, Medical School..... 7,700
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 50,000
Righteous Persons Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research....... 10,000
John O. Robertson, Jr., Melbourne, Florida
1,300 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John O. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the
ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship................. 26,300
Rom Family Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  20,000
Peter J. Rosewig, Hobe Sound, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
200 shares of Cincinnati Bell common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 11,400
San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for the Ophthalmological Research Fund in the Medical School.............. 50,000
Satech, Kirkland, Washington
for muscle research m the Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering. 5,000
Edward I. Schalon Trust
for the Edward I. Schalon Graduate Support Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  150,000
Peter W. Schweitzer, Scarsdale, New York
for the Susan and Peter William Schweitzer Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  25,000
Sharp Microelectronics Technology, Inc., Camas, Washington
for the Polycrystalline Silicon Technology Research Fund, College of Engineering. 32,200
Antoine-Joseph Shebaya, Paris, France
for the Middle East Program Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts..................................................  5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Companies Foundation Graduate Aid in Physics Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
Signature Associates, Southfield
for support in the Division of Kinesiology................................. 5,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago Illinois
for the Jerold and Kathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................................................  10,000
John M. Stevens, Largo, Florida
2,225 shares of May Department Stores common stock
for the John and Ellen M. Stevens Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan.................... 106,244
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 5,000


168




December Meeting, 1996


John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
for the Conference in Economics Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................................................  20,000
Obert C. and Grace A. Tanner Foundation, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecturer in Philosophy in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Roger B. Tilles, Woodbury, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
University  Library.....................................................  5,000
Trico Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor,
Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship in the Alumni Association............. 12,000
UroCor, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School. 22,000
James A. Van Sweden, Washington, DC
379 shares of various corporate common stock
for the James A. Van Sweden Endowed Scholarship in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning.......................................  21,962
Merle R. Voss Trust
for the Virginia L. Voss Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  12,500
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Eleanor M. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Eleanor M. Wagner Scholarship in the School of Education............ 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for AIDS research and the Drug Recovery Program Fund in the Medical
School, for support in the College of Pharmacy; and for the W. E.
Bachmann Lecture Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 66,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................  16,979
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
1,850 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Walter J. Weber and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship
in  the  College of Engineering.........................................  112,872
Wetsman Foundation, Birmingham
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
Brian Wiseman,, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Gerlind Wuepper, Astoria, Oregon
for the Kirk D. Wuepper Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the
ultimate benefit of the Medical School...................................  24,332
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Automobile Club of Michigan Auto Club Insurance Association, Dearborn
classroom and office furniture for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of
Management
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
16 lots of manuscript Americana for the Clements Library
Daniel P. Gilliland, Ann Arbor
one third the value of a Storz microscope for the School of Dentistry
Enid M. Gosling, Ann Arbor
two 17th century documents and one 19th century photographic case
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
a digital DC power supply, two Office Jet fax/printers and four 48GX graphic
calculators for the College of Engineering
Ronald E. Michaelson, West Bloomfield
one third the value of a Storz microscope; for the School of Dentistry
Susan J. Rabick, Grand Rapids
two 19th century manuscripts and two books for the Clements Library


169




December Meeting, 1996


David G. Shappirio, Ann Arbor
a Steinway & Sons grand piano for the School of Music
Ronald R. Shoha, Franklin
one third the value of a Storz microscope for the School of Dentistry
Marie Snetzinger, Lennon
papers of the Andrews and Snell families and related branches including correspondence
and photographs; for the Clements Library
James E. M. White, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
minerals and rocks for the Department of Geological Sciences
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 were received from the following
donors:
Mark Babinski, Garwood, New Jersey  Carl K. Mahakian, Palm Springs, California
Gerald E. Crane, Ann Arbor          Paul A. Manning, Grand Blanc
Mrs. Darrell A. Campbell, Ann Arbor  Jane Martin, Bloomfield Township
Mollie Decrane, Ypsilanti           Mrs. William B. Murphy, York, Maine
Thomas D'Onofrio, Shelby Township   Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Brian L. Dunnigan, Tecumseh         Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
Ann Fair, Uniontown, Maryland       Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York
Betsy Fleet, St. Stephens Church, Virginia  Joanna H. Schoff, Rye New York
Amy B. Hamermesh, Ann Arbor         Sharon Stephens, Ann Arbor
Gordon L. Hansen, Ann Arbor         Stephen B. Stratton, Plymouth
Janet L. Herman, Coldwater          Govert VanDen Bosch, Ann Arbor
John R. Hubbard, Ann Arbor          Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
Frank B. Livingstone, Ann Arbor     Alan Zeitz, Farmington Hills
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Machen and Chancellors Nelms and Renick submitted a number of personnel actions and reports.
Dean of the School of Dentistry. Interim President Neal noted that
the  recommendation     that Interim   Dean   William   Kotowicz   be  made
permanent dean of the School of Dentistry had been made following
consultation with, and the enthusiastic endorsement of, faculty in the school,
the leadership of SACUA, and President-Elect Bollinger.
Regent Baker moved approval of the appointment of William E.
Kotowicz as dean of the School of Dentistry, for a five-year term, effective
January 1, 1997, noting that "if there ever was a deserving fellow in this
University for his labors over a long period of time, it is Bill Kotowicz."
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1997
Holland, Maurita, Lecturer in Information and Library Studies, five and one-half year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Haddad, George I., reappointed Chair, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, eight-month term, January 1, 1997


170




December Meeting, 1996


Romatowski, Jane A., reappointed Associate Dean, School of Education, UM-Dearborn,
five-year term, February 1, 1997
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997
Boehm, Susan, from Interim Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, to
Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of Nursing, three year term
Chaffin, Don B., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, and G.
Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering, and
Professor of Occupational Health, Environmental, and Industrial Health, without
tenure, School of Public Health, also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering
Durfee, Edmund H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Information,
without tenure
Furnas, George W., Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, School of
Information, also appointed Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure, College of Engineering
Hero, Alfred O. III, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Mazumder, Jyotirmoy, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, and Robert H. Lurie Professor of Engineering, also appointed Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure
Thum, Reinhard H., Professor of German, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting Chair,
Department of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint, six-month term
Weissert, William G., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, also
appointed Acting Chair, Department of Health Management and Policy, five-month term
Wise, Kensall D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and the J. Reid and Polly Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology, also
appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Cain, Charles A., from Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering, to Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, with tenure, Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering, and Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure
Kotowicz, William E., from Acting Dean, School of Dentistry, to Dean, School of Dentistry,
five and one-half year term
Leith, Emmett N., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and Schlumberger Professor of Engineering, reappointed the Schlumberger Professor
of Engineering, three year term
McClanahan, Susan, Vice-Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, UM-Dearborn,
three-year term, February 3, 1997
Somerman, Martha J., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, and William
K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, School of Dentistry, reappointed the William K.
and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, School of Dentistry, five year term
Warner Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorship in Chemistry. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis
Professorship in Chemistry, effective January 1, 1997.


171




December Meeting, 1996


Committee appointment. The following committee appointment was
submitted:
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Saunders, Daniel G., four-month term, January 1, 1997, vice Lorraine M. Gutierrez, on leave
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Saul, Joseph M., B.S., Lecturer in Urban Planning, May 1, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Church, Peter A., M.A., Lecturer I in French, Residential College, September 1, 1996
Patalano, Andrea L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, September 1, 1996
Medical School
Blow, Frederic C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, November 1, 1996
Chamberlain, Priscilla R., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pathology, November 1, 1996
Ehrlich, Lisa, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, September 1, 1996
Meyer, Thomas L., M.D., Lecturer in Infectious Diseases, September 15, 1996
Quinn, James V., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, October 15, 1996
Vijan, Sandeep, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1996
School of Public Policy
Pike, Helen L., M.A., Lecturer in Expository Writing, January 1, 1997
UM-Flint School of Management
Waddington, Barbara A., M.B.A., Lecturer in Accounting, January 1, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Alfakih, Abdo Y., from Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College
of Engineering, September 1, 1996
Walker, David T., from Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering to
Associate Research Scientist, June 1, 1996
School of Information
Riggs, Donald E., from Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of Information, with tenure, January 1, 1997
Rosenberg, Victor, from Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with
tenure, to Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, September 1, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Koreck, Maria T., Lecturer II in Women's Studies and Lecturer II in Latino Studies, also
appointed Lecturer II in Latino Studies, Residential College, January 1, 1997
Medical School
Kazanjian, Paul E., from Lecturer in Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Anesthesiology, December 1, 1996


172




December Meeting, 1996


Kazanjian, Powell, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, also appointed Associate Chair
for Graduate Medicine, October 1, 1996
Riba, Michelle B., Clinical Associate Professor II of Psychiatry, also appointed Associate
Chair for Education and Academic Affairs, November 1, 1996
Silver, Samuel M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine to Clinical
Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, September 1, 1996
School of Public Health
Robins, Thomas G., from Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of
Public Health, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, to Associate
Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of Public Health, July 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1, 1996-August 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, and Professor
Emeritus of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy
Hawkins, Joseph E., Jr., Professor Emeritus in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology
(Physiological Acoustics)
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, January 1-December 31, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Crane, Gerald E., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1997
Turner, James A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
School of Art and Design
Marinaro, Louis M., Associate Professor of Art, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Overmyer, R. Dwayne, Jr., Associate Professor of Art, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
School of Education
Rowan, Brian P., Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-February 28, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brusati, Celeste A., Associate Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies, with tenure,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Danly, Robert L., Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, extended sick
leave, October 22, 1996-May 21, 1997
Manis, Melvin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
September 1, 1996- May 31, 1998
Pincus, Leslie B., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Stevenson, Harold W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-June 30, 1997
Tickle, Robert S., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1999
Vinovskis, Maris, Professor of History, with tenure, Chair, Department of History, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 1997
Winter, David J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 30-October 4, 1996
Zurier, Rebecca, Assistant Professor of History of Art, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1997


173




December Meeting, 1996


Medical School
Bartlett, Robert H, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, sabbatical leave, August 1 -October 31, 1996, and February 1-April 30, 1997
Blane, Caroline E., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1996 -April 30, 1997
McLoughlin, Angela L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, extended sick leave,
November 5-25, 1996
Shulkin, Barry L., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1996
Tashian, Richard E., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, retirement furlough
(phased) October 23, 1996-April 30, 1998
Vine, Andrew K., Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1996 -April 30, 1997
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Verhey, Roger F., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, sabbatical
leave, January 1-April 30, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Habib, Izzeddin S., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1997, and retirement furlough, May 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Trojan, Paul K., Professor of Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough
(phased), January 1, 1996-April 30, 1998
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Lyons, Thomas F., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, personal leave,
January 1-April 30, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Apple, Charles G., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, and Director, Communication
Program, extended sick leave, September 24-December 31, 1996
Law, Dorothea, Lecturer in English, extended sick leave, October 17-November 11, 1996
TERMINATIONS
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Dunn, Robert A., Lecturer I in Physics, resigned, April 30, 1996
Mannikka, Eleanor M., Lecturer III in History of Art, resigned, December 31, 1996
Simpson, Patricia A., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, term
complete, May 31, 1996
Toumajan, Dickran, Lecturer II in Armenian Language and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Medical School
Ferguson, Kevin, Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, resigned, November 5, 1996
McLean, James A., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, term complete, December 31, 1996
School of Nursing
Kise, Kathy M., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1996
School of Public Health
Bechhofer, Laurie J., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, term complete,
December 31, 1995
Presby, Kay L., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, term complete,
December 31, 1995
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted six faculty retirement memoirs.


174




December Meeting, 1996


M. Kent Jennings, professor of political science in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Center for
Political Studies at the Institute for Social Research, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Professor Jennings earned his B.A. degree from the University of
Redlands in 1956 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of North Carolina
in 1961. After spending three years at the Brookings Institution, he joined
the University of Michigan faculty in 1963 as assistant professor and was
promoted to associate professor in 1966 and professor in 1969. At the
Institute for Social Research, he was a research associate from 1964-68,
program director from 1968-70, and has been a research scientist since 1970.
Since 1984, Professor Jennings has held a half-time appointment at the
University of Michigan and a half-time appointment at the University of
California, Santa Barbara, actively teaching at both institutions.
Professor Jennings made major contributions to the development of the
field of political socialization. His landmark study of the intergenerational
transmission of attitudes through the study of parents and children in 1981
initiated whole new areas of research, and has become an ongoing panel
study, with the fourth wave to be done next year. Professor Jennings has also
made important contributions to our understanding of comparative politics
across a range of topics on local elites and mass publics in a number of
countries. He has trained a large number of scholars in the areas of American
politics and methodology, and has been a devoted and engaged teacher of
graduate and undergraduate students.
Professor Jennings is president-elect of the American Political Science
Association and will serve as its president in 1997-98. He has received a
Guggenheim Fellowship, been a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in
the Behavioral Sciences, and has received numerous awards for published
works.   He has won prizes from    both the Western Political Science
Association (for the best paper on the topic of women and politics) and from
the International Society of Political Psychology (for the best paper presented
at the 1992 meeting). He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences in 1982.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming M. Kent
Jennings professor emeritus of political science and research scientist
emeritus.
Frank B. Livingstone, professor of anthropology, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Professor Livingstone received his B.A. degree in mathematics from
Harvard (1950) and came to the University of Michigan where he earned his
M.A. (1955) and Ph.D. (1957) degrees in anthropology.   After a NSF
postdoctoral fellowship, he joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor of anthropology in 1959. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1963 and professor in 1968. He served as chair of the Department
of Anthropology from 1983-86.
Professor Livingstone has played a key role in maintaining the presence
of biological anthropology in the "four field" approach that serves as the core
of the anthropology curriculum at the University of Michigan. For a full
generation, he served as faculty advisor to entering graduate students in


175




December Meeting, 1996


biological anthropology, and he has served on more doctoral committees than
any other biological anthropologist in the department. At the same time, he has
served as counselor to the undergraduates in the anthropology-zoology B.A.
program, the principle avenue for students aspiring to enter medical school after
graduation.
The pioneering work that Professor Livingstone began during his
graduate studies has paved the way for an understanding of the relationships
between falciparum malaria, sickle-cell anemia, ecology, and cultural history.
This earned him the Martin Luther King Award from the Southern Christian
Leadership Conference for Contributions to Research on Sickle Cell Anemia.
It was his model that demonstrated why the concept of "race" simply
prevents us from understanding the nature and meaning of human biological
variation. His seminal contributions to the literature on this matter have been
republished time and again and have provided one of the reasons why the
Department of Anthropology at the University of Michigan has repeatedly
been ranked first in the nation.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Frank B.
Livingstone professor emeritus of anthropology.
Harry R. Pape, Jr., D.D.S, associate professor of dentistry in the
School of Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Dr. Pape received his D.D.S. degree in 1961 and his M.S. degree in
restorative dentistry (operative) in 1974, both from the University of
Michigan.  He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a clinical
instructor in 1971. He was appointed assistant professor of dentistry in 1974
and was promoted to associate professor in 1979. He has served as director of
several of the dental clinics in the University and School of Dentistry during
his term.
Dr. Pape has participated in the department's teaching and clinic activity
and has served on the pathology committee, the preventive dentistry
committee, the community dentistry committee, and the interdisciplinary
coordinating committee on prevention and nutrition. He has also served the
school as a member of the library committee, the appointments, promotions,
and tenure committee, and as chair of the table clinic committee from
1989-94. His community service includes participating in the preventive
dentistry committee of the Washtenaw District Dental Society from 1974-77.
Dr. Pape's publications have focused on streptococcus mutans; most recently,
he has studied the effect of xylitol (a sugar alcohol) on dental caries.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Harry R. Pape, Jr., associate professor emeritus of dentistry.
Richard L. Patterson, professor of natural resources in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1996.
Professor Patterson earned his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in 1954,
1959, and 1963, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. He served
on the faculty of the University of Florida from 1963-70 prior to joining the
University of Michigan faculty in 1970 as professor of natural resources and
coordinator of mathematical modeling on the Sea Grant Program.


176




December Meeting, 1996


Professor Patterson's doctoral research was in queuing theory under the
direction of the well-known queuing theorist A. B. Clarke. He published 33
papers on theory and applications of stochastic networks, statistics, and
applied mathematics related to problems arising in industrial engineering,
resource management, and environmental science, and has held memberships
in 15 professional and honorary societies.
From 1970 until his retirement, Professor Patterson was active in
teaching, research, counseling, and service in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment. He was principal investigator on many sponsored research
grants and was a consultant to numerous organizations, including the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the
Michigan Department of Natural Resources, and the Army Missile Command.
Within the SNRE, he served as chair of the graduate policy and management
program, acting associate dean, and as a member of a number of school and
campus-wide committees.
Professor Patterson introduced courses into the SNRE curriculum in
resource management and environmental science emphasizing the use of
operations research and applied mathematics in environmental problem
solving. Many of his former students now occupy responsible positions in
academia, government, and industry in the U.S. and abroad. For many years,
Professor Patterson was coordinator of master's projects in SNRE. He was an
effective motivator of graduate students and enjoyed excellent one-on-one
working relationships with them.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Richard L.
Patterson professor emeritus of natural resources.
Susan I. Seger, senior associate librarian, retired from the University
Library on October 11, 1996, after 32 years of dedicated service.
Ms. Seger received her B.S. degree in dental hygiene at the University of
Michigan in 1957 and practiced as a dental hygienist from 1957-61. She then
returned to the University to study for a teacher's certificate and a master's
degree in library science. Upon completing her A.M.L.S. degree in 1964, she
spent one year as an assistant librarian at the Business Administration
Library. In July 1965, Ms. Seger became assistant librarian in the Dentistry
Library, and in January 1966 she was promoted to head librarian.
In 1971, the library, which had been scattered in five locations in the
school's vintage 1907 building, moved to the new clinic building and research
tower. Following the move, the dramatic growth of the student body and the
implementation of a new curriculum put Ms. Seger's abilities to the test. This
she surmounted admirably, and her collection-building efforts really got
under way.
Ms. Seger managed the implementation of the MIRLYN computerized
catalog and circulation system at the Dentistry Library during the '80s. Since
1989, she has established and continued to improve a curriculum-integrated
educational program for the MEDLINE health sciences bibliographic database
that is a model for the other health science libraries on campus.
Building on the achievements of her predecessors, over the past thirty
years Ms. Seger has created what is arguably one of the largest and most
varied dental collections in the country, one that has a national and even
international reputation. Through her devotion to service and her willingness


177




December Meeting, 1996


to expend maximum effort to complete the tasks assigned to her, Ms. Seger
has attracted a legion of supporters among students, faculty, and staff of the
School of Dentistry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Susan I.
Seger senior associate librarian emerita.
Dorothy Huntwork Shields, associate librarian, retired from the University Library on August 31, 1996.
Ms. Shields earned her B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in
1959 and her M.S.L.S. degree from Wayne State University in 1976. She held
a number of positions elsewhere in Michigan and in Ohio before joining the
staff of the University Library as an administrative assistant in 1982. She
was promoted to assistant librarian in 1983 and associate librarian in 1991.
Dorothy Shields has contributed to the library profession on several
levels throughout her career. Her accomplishments include helping to oversee
the addition of a campus computing site to the Art and Architecture Library
in 1985 and its later expansion in 1988. In her role as slide librarian, she
doubled the size of the Art and Architecture Library's image resources. She
was an active participant in helping to plan the Art and Architecture Library's
merger with the Media Union. Of particular importance was her role as
facilitator in helping staff and faculty make the transition to the Media Union.
Ms. Shields has been an active member of the Art Libraries Society, both
nationally and locally. She served four consecutive terms as secretary-treasurer
of ARLIS/Michigan, in which she was instrumental in revising chapter
bylaws. She served on the editorial committee of the Visual Resources Bulletin
and was a member of the Ann Arbor Sister City Delegation to Juigalpa,
Nicaragua, where she distributed books donated by the University of Michigan
to schools and colleges in that city.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Dorothy
Huntwork Shields associate librarian emerita.
Memorials. No deaths were reported this month.
Degrees. There was no action with respect to degrees this month.
Consent agenda approved. Regent Newman moved approval of the
consent agenda; Regent Power seconded the motion. Chancellor Renick
highlighted the recommended appointment of Susan McClanahan as vice
chancellor for institutional advancement at the University of MichiganDearborn.  The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
The Realty Associates Fund IV
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents about a
follow-on investment that has been made in Realty Associates Fund IV, as
described in the Regents Communication.
Buhr Building Addition
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, University
Planner, who gave a presentation on the plans for the previously approved
addition to the Buhr Building.


178




December Meeting, 1996


School of Business Administration Facilities Improvement Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved the revised $27 million budget for the School
of Business Administration Facilities Improvement Project and authorized
issuance of the components for bids and award of contracts if the costs fall
within the authorized budget.
Naming of New Building in School of Business Administration
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved designating the new building to be constructed as
part of the facilities improvement project at the School of Business Administration as Sam Wyly Hall.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) School
of Education Multimedia Classroom; 2) remodeling of alcoves in Room 300 of
Cook Legal Research Building for office space; 3) an increase in the scope of
a previously approved project for a Global Change Laboratory in the Space
Research Building; 4) remodeling of the animal facility in the 300 North
Ingalls Building; 5) modifications to the heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning systems to improve air quality at the Eisenhower Corporate
Park West Building; 6) Health Service Building renovations; 7) renovations
and fourth floor completion in the Randall Laboratory.
University of Michigan Hospitals Pediatric Cardiology Laboratory
Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the Pediatric Cardiology Laboratory Replacement
Project and authorized submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health.
Michigan Operating Room Data Management System (MORcare)
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the vendor
identified for the previously approved Michigan Operating Room Data
Management System (MORcare) project would be unable to meet the
acceptance criteria, so an alternate vendor will be selected.
Lease Amendment Agreement between the University of Michigan
and S and R Properties
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a lease amendment agreement with S and R
Properties. Because Dr. Michael Szymanski is both a University employee
and a party to the agreement by virtue of his ownership of a 25 percent
equity interest in S and R properties, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:


179




December Meeting, 1996


1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and S and
R properties.
2.  Terms of the contract include a duration through April 31, 2001.
The University will lease real property located at 8005 Main Street,
Dexter, Michigan. The medical office facility is 4,430 square feet, at
a rental rate of $13.54 per square foot, $60,000 annually (for year
one starting on January 1, 1997, with a three percent inflation cost
added for each subsequent year). The Medical Center will place
clericals, medical assistants, nurses, and physicians there to provide
necessary family medicine services to the community.
3.  Dr. Michael Szymanski's pecuniary interest arises from his 25
percent equity interest in the S and R partnership. Through S and R
Properties, Dr. Szymanski will receive revenues generated by the
leasing of the property to the University.
Leasing Agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Mary Margaret Jender Trust
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a leasing agreement between the University
of Michigan and the Mary Margaret Jender Trust for leasing of a medical
office suite. Because Mary Margaret Jender is both the trustee for the trust
that owns the office suite and will be employed by the University as a
medical office supervisor in the office, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and the
Mary Margaret Jender Trust.
2.  Terms of the contract include a duration of 24 months.  The
University will lease the real property located at 8524 Canton Center
Road, Canton, Michigan. The medical office facility is 1,100 square
feet, at a rental rate of $12.50 per square foot, and 1,100 square feet
of storage space, at a rental rate of $2.00 per square foot. This totals
$15,950 annually, beginning on December 23, 1996. This rate
includes all operating expenses, but does not include metered
utilities. The medical center will place clericals, medical office
assistants, nurses, and physicians to provide necessary primary care
services to the community.
3.  Mrs. Jender has no direct pecuniary interest as a trustee. The
beneficiaries of the trust are her children, and they are the sole
parties who will receive any distributions of trust proceeds, such as
any rental revenue from this lease.
Purchase Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Joseph G. Jender, M.D., P.C.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchase agreement between the University of
Michigan and Joseph G. Jender, M.D., P.C. Because Dr. Jender holds a zero
percent appointment at the University of Michigan Medical School and is
also a party to the agreement by virtue of his position as president of the


180




December Meeting, 1996


P.C., this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and the
Joseph G. Jender, M.D., P.C.
2.  Terms of the contract include the University's purchase of medical
office equipment and intangible assets from the P.C. operating at
8524 Canton Center Road, Canton, Michigan. The purchase price of
the assets will be $90,000. The medical center will place clericals,
medical office assistants, nurses, and physicians in the medical office,
utilizing the purchased assets to provide necessary primary care
services to the community.
3.  Dr. Jender's pecuniary interest arises from Dr. Jender's role as
president of the Joseph G. Jender, M.D., P.C., the owner of the
practice and the assets.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and MuLex
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Baker, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and MuLex. Because Xinbing Liu and Peter Pronko are both
University employees and co-owners of MuLex, this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MuLex.
2.  Terms of the agreement allow MuLex access to a Kilohertz Laser
System (KLS) located at the Center for Ultrafast Science (CUOS)
under which MuLex is explicitly limited to utilizing the KLS for
demonstration purposes only and not for production of product.
MuLex access to the KLS is restricted to no more than ten hours per
month, and the University will be reimbursed in accordance with the
external user recharge rate established by the University. In the
event that any person has concurrent employment with the
University and MuLex, it is agreed that Regents' Bylaw 2.10 will
govern the disposition of any intellectual property which is generated
by such person during and under this agreement.
3.  Dr. Liu's and Dr. Pronko's pecuniary interest arises by virtue of
their co-ownership of MuLex. The amount of the contract will not
exceed $4,200 based upon the established maximum of ten hours
usage per month at the established recharge rate of $35/hour over
the one-year term of the agreement.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michigan Microsensor, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and Michigan Microsensor, Inc. Because Seldon B. Crary is both
a University employee and a party to the agreement by virtue of his
ownership of Michigan Microsensor, Inc., this agreement falls under the


181




December Meeting, 1996


state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Michigan Microsensor, Inc.
2.  Terms of the contract include a yearly license fee to the University of
$2,000; non-exclusive right to use, create derivative works, and
distribute the program; the granting to the University of a
royalty-free license to fully use Michigan Microsensor's derivative
works for internal research and education. The University will
retain ownership of the program and may continue to further
develop it and use it as a research tool and to license it to others. No
use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.  Dr. Crary's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in
Michigan Microsensor. He has waived any personal participation in
the sharing of royalties received by the University from the company.
Establishment of the Department of Communication at the
University of Michigan-Flint
Regent Baker moved approval of establishment of the Department of
Communication in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of
Michigan-Flint. Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts,
and Agreements FY96
Assistant Vice President Nowack reviewed the information contained in
the report on implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants,
Contracts, and Agreements for Fiscal Year 1996.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1997
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved the following revised meeting schedule for
1997:


January 23-24
February 20-21
March 13*-14
April 17-18
May 15**-16
June 12-13


July 17-18
August no meeting
September 18-19
October 16**-17
November 20-21
December 18-19


t*    Held at UM-Dearborn
*  Held at UM-Flint


182




December Meeting, 1996


Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, and on the
recommendation of the University Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents
unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical staff
membership.
201-203 East Hoover, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved acquisition of the property located at 201-203 East
Hoover, Ann Arbor, at a price of $1.0 million.
Naming of the New Humanities Building in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Regent Newman moved that the new humanities building in the College
of the Literature, Science, and the Arts be named Tisch Hall, in recognition
of a $6 million commitment from the Tisch Foundation, Inc. Regent
Newman thanked Mr. Tisch for his generosity, and noted that he is very
excited about this project.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Naming of the New Tennis Facility in the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved naming of the new tennis building in the
Department of Intercollegiate Athletics the Preston Robert Tisch Tennis
Building. It was pointed out that the action request should have stated that
the request was for naming the building only, not the entire tennis facility.
Resolution in Honor of Farris W. Womack
Regent Power read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Farris W.
Womack as he retires from his position as executive vice president and
chief financial officer on December 31, 1996.
A dynamic, visionary leader, Farris Womack has served with
great distinction since arriving at the University in 1988. Under his
guidance, the University's endowment has grown five-fold, to more
than $1.7 billion; Michigan has become the only public university to
earn an Aal credit rating; and it is now completing a $1.5 billion
program to rebuild, renovate, and update most of the buildings on the
Ann Arbor campus.
Through the use of employee empowerment, cutting-edge
computer technology, and Total Quality Management, Dr. Womack
has created an exciting climate in the University's business and
finance areas in which staff continually strive to identify and exceed


183




December Meeting, 1996


expectations. Always gracious and generous to staff at all levels, he
has developed new staff recognition programs and, through venues
such as the Business and Finance Management Institute, has created
opportunities for staff members to develop leadership skills and foster
their careers.
Dr. Womack's wife, Ann, has been an equally committed and
devoted leader in a wide array of University activities. Most recently,
she organized the annual Town Hall Lecture Series, sponsored by the
UM Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor's Waterman Group, and serves on the
75th Anniversary Committee of the Faculty Women's Club, having
previously served on the club's board.
With admiration and gratitude for their numerous contributions, the Regents extend their warmest wishes to Farris and Ann
Womack as they embark on this new phase of their lives.
Regent Baker thanked Executive Vice President Womack for his
"stupendous contribution to this institution." He observed that "none of the
growth that occurred in the last eight years under James Duderstadt's
presidency could have taken place without the financial foundation that he
prepared," and that he also had prepared the University for further growth
under the new president.
Regent Varner thanked Executive Vice President Womack and recalled
that her role in helping to recruit him to campus is one of the
accomplishments that she is most proud of during her tenure as Regent.
Regent McFee observed that she has learned a great deal from working
with Executive Vice President Womack, and that during her six years on the
Board, the University's endowment has increased about 200 percent. She
also noted that he had also introduced innovative types of financing
strategies during his tenure.
Regent Power noted that during the presidential search he had spoken
to a number of chief financial officers at leading universities across the
country. Each had inquired about Farris Womack, and each had expressed
regard for his performance at the University of Michigan. He believes it is a
fair assumption that "Farris is widely regarded in this country as the leading
chief financial officer at any university in the United States."
Regent Horning observed that "it is comforting to sit on a board that I
know is probably as financially sound as any public university in the
country."
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
There followed a round of applause.
Interim President Neal noted that one of the important testaments to
Executive Vice President Womack's accomplishments will be the thousands
of students in the years ahead who will have financial aid or who will sit in
buildings that would not have existed without him.


184




December Meeting, 1996


Resolution in Honor of Regent Nellie M. Varner
Regent Deitch read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their deep
appreciation and warmest personal regards to their colleague and
friend, Nellie M. Varner, as she completes 16 years of exemplary
service as a member of the Board of Regents.
A prominent Detroit businesswoman, Regent Varner holds
bachelor's and master's degrees from Wayne State University and a
doctoral degree in Russian studies from the University of Michigan.
She is currently president of N. M. Varner Company, a real estate
brokerage firm, and vice president of Atwater Entertainment
Associates.
Regent Varner's background as a University of Michigan faculty
member and administrator has served her well as she has tackled the
broad array of challenges that has faced this complex institution
during her tenure. With compassion, courage, and wisdom, Regent
Varner has helped set the University's course in such important areas
as affirmative action and the expansion of educational and career
opportunities for women.
As co-chair of the Presidential Search Committee, Regent Varner
skillfully guided the Regents' efforts that culminated in the election of
Lee C. Bollinger as the University's twelfth president.  Her
wide-ranging commitment is also demonstrated by her service as
national co-chair of annual giving for the successful $1 billion
Campaign for Michigan.
Regent Varner's "Michigan connection" runs deep. Many of her
family members are University of Michigan alumni, and her
daughter, Janniss L. Varner, attended the UM-Dearborn.  The
Regents look forward to her young grandson, Alvin Norwood, joining
the ranks of the maize and blue at the appropriate time.
The Regents will miss Regent Varner's soft-spoken warmth and
good humor but look forward to her continued guidance and counsel
as they name Nellie M. Varner Regent Emerita of the University of
Michigan.
Regent Power supported the motion. Regent Deitch commented that
"one of the great things that has happened to me in my life was that I earned
Nellie Varner's friendship." He noted that she had been a mentor and a role
model to him in many ways. He pledged that "on all the tough questions
while I'm here, particularly the ones that involve judgment and sensitivity
and resolve, before I vote I'm going to ask myself, 'what would Nellie do' on
this one?"
Regent Baker observed that he had served on the Board with Regent
Varner for 16 years. Among the memories he will never forget is having


185




December Meeting, 1996


shared with Regent Varner the experience of former Regent Sarah Power's
death, and said that he appreciated her service and thanked her for it.
Regent McFee noted that the six years she had served with Regent
Varner had been a real learning experience in terms of working with people
and dealing with issues, and that she was glad to have had an opportunity to
relate to such a "tremendous human being" as Regent Varner.
Regent McGowan commented that she would miss working with Regent
Varner as her close colleague and would ask of her only one thing, and that is
"to leave behind a little of her backbone."
Regent Power noted that Regent Varner had been a friend and a model
to many people, and that she had been an "enormous support to Sarah
[Power] before she became a Regent," and that after her election to the
Board, Sarah had often commented on Nellie's effectiveness. On many
occasions, he noted, "Nellie has contributed that unique quality of grace and
good sense to this University and to her colleagues, to everyone's very great
benefit."
Regent Horning stated that "the greatest compliment he could give"
Regent Varner is that "when you have spoken, I have truly listened. It has
been not only a privilege and an honor to have served with you, but I am
proud to call you my friend."
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
There followed a round of applause.
Regent Varner thanked everyone for their kind remarks and noted
"what a tremendous experience this chapter of my life has been. It has been
a great odyssey for me to come from the student body and then to the Board
and to serve with so many wonderful people. I'm the one who has truly been
honored," she noted, "and I'll always have a great affection for the
University."
Interim President Neal said to Regent Varner, "when I think of you, I
think of love, care, dedication, commitment, vision, warmth, approachability,
sensitivity, and gracefulness."
Resolution in Honor of Regent Deane Baker
Regent Horning observed that the four Regents who will have departed
from the Board during his first two years on the Board represent collectively
88 years of service. He then offered the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan warmly salute their
friend and colleague, Deane Baker, as he concludes 24 years of
dedicated service as a member of the University of Michigan Board of
Regents.
First elected in 1972 and reelected in 1980 and 1988, Regent
Baker is the only Regent to hold the distinction of having served with
three presidents and three interim presidents. During his tenure, he
186




December Meeting, 1996


has witnessed extraordinary changes in every area of the University,
some highlights of which include the development of the Flint and
Dearborn campuses and of the North Campus, and the rebuilding and
expansion of the University of Michigan Medical Center.
Regent Baker has never shied away from representing his own
views and those of his constituents and has often participated in
spirited debates on a wide range of issues. Always a gentleman,
Regent Baker has argued his views persuasively and with heartfelt
eloquence and passion. A staunch supporter of the expansion of
educational opportunities for young people, he has kept a watchful eye
on University budgets, mindful of the need to control costs and to keep
tuition increases to a minimum.
Regent Baker and his wife, Marilyn, have four children: Jamie
Knauss, Wendy Baker Barg, Betsy Roben, and John Deane Baker.
Each holds an advanced or professional degree from Michigan, with
John also having earned his undergraduate degree at the University.
For more than two decades, Deane Baker has been a resolute
presence on the Board, providing prudent oversight while always
maintaining his strongly-held principles.  In recognition of his
dedicated service, the Regents now name Deane Baker Regent
Emeritus of the University of Michigan.
Regent McFee supported the motion. She observed that she had worked
with Regent Baker in a variety of activities over a period of many years, and
that he had always been dedicated to very strongly held principles, both
within the Republican Party and on the Board of Regents. She noted that
even when his ideas have not been supported by the Board, he had always
backed the Board's decisions wholeheartedly. She added that "he has been a
true public servant on this Board, and I will be sorry to see him leave."
Regent Varner observed that she had served with Regent Baker for 16 of
his 24 years on the Board, and that even though they differed on a number of
issues, both of them came to whatever position they held out of love for the
institution. He had served a very special role in terms of balancing the views
held by the Board.
Regent Power noted that although he and Regent Baker had not always
agreed, he had never doubted his sense of actively held, deeply felt principles,
nor doubted his concern, affection, and loyalty for the University. He also
recalled Regents Baker's and Varner's kindness following Sarah's death and
thought it reflected in both of them "a sense of compassion and grace and
civilization that is rare today but important to cultivate.
Regent Deitch also noted that he would miss Regent Baker, noting his
"enormous contribution" of 24 years of service to the University was unlikely
ever to be duplicated again. He observed that "everything you approached,
you approached with integrity." He noted that he had enjoyed his
engagement with Regent Baker during his time on the Board, and that "on
all the big issues, we stood shoulder to shoulder together."


187




December Meeting, 1996


Regent McGowan commented that Regent Baker's being on the Board
had caused her to think harder and work harder than she might otherwise
have had to do, and that she would miss him.
Regent Newman recalled that she first met Regent Baker during her
campaign for election as Regent. She was told that he was a kind, wonderful
gentleman, devoted and dedicated to the Board. After she met him, she
found him to be exactly as people had described him. She said that although
she and he had not always agreed, she has learned a lot from him, one of
which is that disagreements in public or private should not impact personal
relationships. She expressed the hope that she would see Regent Baker often
in the future.
Regent Horning observed that Regent Baker truly has a passion for the
University of Michigan.
The vote was then taken, and the resolution was approved unanimously.
There followed a round of applause.
Comments by Regent Baker. Regent Baker noted that he had some
prepared remarks he wished to add to the record:
To serve on the University of Michigan Board of Regents for 24
years is a humbling and enriching experience.  The honor of
participating in guiding one of the world's great educational
institutions as a servant of the people of Michigan is enriching indeed.
I thank the people of Michigan for that opportunity.
It is both best and wise for a retiree to say as little as possible on
occasions such as this. However, I do ask your indulgence in hearing
three short comments:
The historic, but not formalized "Regent's Credo" is that each
Regent should always vote for "what is best for the University of
Michigan." Consider posting that credo in a prominent place in this
hallowed room.
It is each Regent's duty to protect and defend, in the courts if
necessary, the constitutional autonomy of the University of Michigan if
it is to continue to be a free, great, and world-leading university.
Finally, I want to thank all of those individuals employed by the
University of Michigan, no matter what their rank or duty, for coming
to work each day and cheerfully doing their best to make this
institution the magnificent wonder that it is.
Interim President Neal commented that on behalf of the executive
officers, he wished to convey to Regent Baker their great respect for his
integrity, for his love and passion for the institution, his dedication, and
special thanks for his support during this delicate transition period.
Chancellor Nelms then presented Regents Baker and Varner with
stuffed Wolverine toys as personal gestures of appreciation from him.


188




December Meeting, 1996


Executive Session Motion
Regent McFee made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session
on December 19, 1996, for the purpose of considering material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the
Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then recessed at 3:40 p.m. while the Regents met in executive
session.
Public Comments
The meeting reconvened at 4:15 p.m. Present were Interim President
Neal and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman,
Power, and Varner.    Also present were Vice President Harrison and
Secretary Palmer.
The Regents heard comments from Professor Gayl Ness about Regent
Baker's service on the Board of Regents, and from Michael J. Kinnucan,
member of the Steering Committee of Citizens for Quality Care, about
privatization of the University of Michigan Medical Center.
Request for Investigation with Attorney Grievance Commission
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
I move that the Board of Regents ("Board") file a request for
investigation with the Attorney Grievance Commission into the
conduct of Jonathan D. Rowe, and the law firm of Dykema Gossett,
and Bruce T. Wallace and Charles W. Borgsdorf and the law firm of
Hooper, Hathaway, Price, Beuche & Wallace, and take other related
action as proposed for the following reasons:
On April 4, 1991, the Board and the law firm of Dykema Gossett,
P.L.L.C. ("Dykema Gossett") executed a contract under which Dykema
Gossett agreed to provide services to the Board, which was renewed on
a periodic basis.
The parties executed a new contract in August, 1994 ("Contract").
Dykema Gossett provided lobbying and legal services for and on
behalf of the Board from April 4, 1991, through the present.
In its Contract with the Board, Dykema Gossett represented that
there was no actual or potential conflict of interest between it and the
Board, and Dykema Gossett further agreed to notify the Board in the
event of potential conflicts of interest.
On October 11, 1996, while the Contract was in effect and while
Dykema Gossett continued to perform services and bill the Board for


189




December Meeting, 1996


its services, Dykema Gossett, by Jonathan D. Rowe, filed an action
against the Board on behalf of the Herald Company d/b/a Booth
Newspapers, Inc., and the Ann Arbor News, the Detroit Free Press,
and the Detroit News, Inc. (the "Newspapers"), Washtenaw Circuit
Court No. 96-7822-CZ.
Michigan Rule of Professional Conduct 1.7(a) provides that a
lawyer shall not represent a client if the representation of that client
will be directly adverse to another client, unless (1) the lawyer
reasonably believes the representation will not adversely affect the
relationship with the other client; and (2) each client consents after
consultation.
The Board was not consulted with respect to Dykema Gossett's
potential representation of the Newspapers whose interests were
directly adverse to the interests of the Board, nor did the Board
consent to that representation.
The Board, through counsel, requested that Dykema Gossett
withdraw from its representation of the Newspapers based upon its
conflict of interest. Dykema Gossett did not withdraw as requested,
but continued with the litigation, and the University of Michigan filed
a motion to disqualify Dykema Gossett in the pending litigation.
After the Board filed the motion to disqualify Dykema Gossett,
Dykema Gossett retained the services of Hooper, Hathaway, Price,
Beuche & Wallace ("Hooper Hathaway") to represent the interests of
Dykema Gossett.
Hooper Hathaway, by Bruce T. Wallace and        Charles W.
Borgsdorf, filed a brief in opposition to the Board's motion to
disqualify Dykema Gossett from its representation of the Newspapers.
Hooper Hathaway previously represented the Board in a
substantially related matter with respect to litigation filed against the
University by Booth Newspapers, Inc., and the Detroit Free Press, Inc.
(See Booth Newspapers, Inc. v. Board of Regents, 444 Mich. 211
(1994)). In its capacity as counsel to the Board in the previous related
litigation, Hooper Hathaway   was provided with sensitive and
confidential information concerning the general subject matter of this
litigation.
In addition, at the time of its retention by Dykema Gossett, Hooper
Hathaway represented the Board with respect to two appellate
litigation matters.
Michigan Rule of Professional Conduct 1.7(a) provides that a
lawyer shall not represent a client if the representation of that client
will be directly adverse to another client, unless (1) the lawyer
reasonably believes the representation will not adversely affect the
relationship with the other client; and (2) each client consents after
consultation.


190




December Meeting, 1996


In addition, Rule 1.9 provides that a lawyer who has formerly
represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another
person in the same or a substantially related matter in which that
person's interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former
client unless the former client consents after consultation.
The Board, through counsel, requested that Hooper Hathaway
withdraw from its representation of interests adverse to the interests of
the Board; Hooper Hathaway responded by asserting that it had met
its ethical obligations by terminating its relationship with the lawyers
handling the Board's matters.
Hooper Hathaway, by Messrs. Wallace and Borgsdorf, neither
consulted with nor obtained the consent of the Board to represent
clients with interests adverse to the interests of the Board.
Therefore, I move that the Board take the following action:
That the Board file requests for investigation with the Michigan
Attorney Grievance Commission into the conduct of Jonathan D. Rowe
and the law firm of Dykema Gossett, and the conduct of Bruce T.
Wallace and Charles W. Borgsdorf and the law firm of Hooper
Hathaway for the reasons stated herein;
That the Board direct its legal counsel to provide the Michigan
Attorney Grievance Commission a copy of this motion, as approved,
evidencing the action of this Board.
That the Board's legal counsel also provide the Attorney
Grievance Commission copies of all motions, briefs, affidavits, and
other related papers filed by all parties in Washtenaw Circuit Court
No. 96-7822-CZ.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
President's Report
Interim President Neal announced that the search committees for both
the executive vice president and chief financial officer and the executive vice
president for medical affairs had been appointed and had begun their work.
He also noted that the articles of incorporation had been signed for the
Michigan Virtual Auto College.
Interim President Neal acknowledged the efforts of Vice President
Harrison and his staff in the passage of the revised Open Meetings Act and
Freedom of Information Act legislation related to the conduct of presidential
searches at public universities. He also announced the appointment of Lisa
Tedesco to work in the President's Office on issues related to the Michigan
Mandate and the Michigan Agenda for Women.
Interim President Neal announced the names of the Executive Vice
President for Medical Affairs (EVPMA) Search Advisory Committee, noting
that it was to be chaired by Professor Max Wicha. He observed that the


191




December Meeting, 1996


committee will need the assistance of outside groups, as it will be searching
broadly, inside and outside of academia, for candidates.
Regent Newman observed that she had assumed the committee would
include individuals with expertise from outside the University, and expressed
concern that the current committee is composed of only internal members.
Interim President Neal responded that it was assumed that the committee
could consult with already existing external advisory groups.
Regent Newman also noted that the Regents had not been consulted
about the makeup of this committee prior to its appointment, unlike what
had occurred with the EVPCFO search committee. Regent Deitch expressed
agreement with Regent Newman's sentiments, noting that the position will
require a person with excellent business skills as well as credentials in
academic medicine. Regents McFee and Power expressed similar sentiments.
Interim President Neal reiterated that the plan was to involve
individuals from outside of the University who currently serve on the visiting
committee, but a more formal involvement by outside individuals might be
desirable. Regent Newman asked for follow-up on this matter.
Interim President Neal noted both search committees had begun joint
discussions about the choice of search firms.
The meeting then recessed at 4:40 p.m. to resume meeting in the closed
session.
Adjournment
Following the closed session, the meeting was adjourned at 6:15 p.m.
The next meeting is scheduled for January 23-24, 1997. Regents' expenses
for the month of November 1996 totaled $1,173.62.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


192




JANUARY MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 23, 1997
The Regents met at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Interim President Neal and Regents Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor, and Secretary Palmer.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Horning read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session
on January 23, 1997, for the purpose of considering material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the
Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting continued in executive session until 11:50 a.m., at which time it
recessed.
The Regents reconvened at 1:55 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present
were Interim President Neal and Regents Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive
Vice President Matthews, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison,
Hartford, Kinnear, and Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick, and
Secretary Palmer.
Opening Remarks - Interim President Neal
Interim President Neal noted that Regents Olivia P. Maynard and S.
Martin Taylor were attending their first Regents' Meeting and welcomed
them to the table. He also acknowledged the presence of Chandler W.
Matthews in the role of interim executive vice president and chief financial
officer. There followed a round of applause.
President Neal observed that a University student and faculty member
had recently been killed in a plane crash and offered the following statement:
It was less than two weeks ago that we learned of the tragedy
that took the lives of two valued members of our University
community, Betty Jean Jones and Arati Sharangpani. We were
saddened by the loss of Professor Jones, Arati, and the other 27
people on that flight, including Dexter Adams, a Proctor & Gamble
employee, who was, I believe, a U of M alum, who was coming to
Ann Arbor to recruit.
Vice President Hartford, Provost Machen, and I had the
privilege of attending a memorial service yesterday for Arati in the


193




January Meeting, 1997


Michigan Union Ballroom. The crowd of more than 350 provided a
stirring testimony to the impact this talented and compassionate
young woman had on so many lives. She was committed to her
studies and scheduled to graduate in May with concentrations in
German and political science. A bachelor of arts degree will be
awarded to her posthumously She also was an enthusiastic campus
leader-active in the Indian American Student Association and the
21st Century Program, in addition to serving as a resident adviser.
As Vice President Hartford noted yesterday, Arati represents the best
of our student community.
In the same vein, Professor Jones represents the talent and
commitment of our top faculty. Although Professor Jones was with
us only a few years, she quickly endeared herself to students, faculty
colleagues, and staff members across the University. Theatre Department Chair Erik Fredricksen and Dean Paul Boylan were the first to
recognize the talent and warmth, energy and passion that Betty
Jean would bring to our students and to our academic community.
Betty Jean also brought with her from the University of North
Carolina at Greensboro excellent academic credentials as a scholar
of theater plus her proven talents as an actress and director.
Betty Jean was someone special, someone with great energy,
kindness, enthusiasm, and love for life. Later this afternoon Betty
Jean's many friends will gather to celebrate her life at a memorial
service in Rackham Amphitheater, followed by a reception at Trueblood Theatre.
There are those whose lives death cannot diminish because
their love radiates in the hearts of friends and family; their light
shines on in the lives they've touched. Betty Jean and Arati were
those kind of people. Although we're saddened by their passing, the
University of Michigan is a better place because they have been part
of our community.
Search Committees. Interim President Neal observed that progress
was being made on adding a person external to the University people to the
search committee for the executive vice president for medical affairs. He also
noted that the search committee for the executive vice president and chief
financial officer has identified a consulting firm and is making good progress.
Committee on the Use of the University's Name. Interim President
Neal announced that a Committee on the Use of the University's Name will
be formed soon. Among its charges will be to determine under what
conditions the name of the University of Michigan will be allowed to be
associated with commercial activities. It is anticipated that the committee's
recommendations will be brought to the Board.
Wiesner Symposium. Interim President Neal called on Associate Vice
President Julie Ellison, who described plans for the second annual Jerome B.
Wiesner Symposium, to be held February 24, 1997. She noted that the
theme of the symposium, public policy regarding the humanities and arts,
194




January Meeting, 1997


will set the stage for the University's Year of the Humanities in 1997-98, an
initiative of the Office of the Vice President for Research.
New Century Fund. Interim President Neal announced the creation
of the New Century Fund, which will be used to support the advancement of
the University's Agenda for Women and the Michigan Mandate.     Lisa
Tedesco, associate dean of the School of Dentistry and coordinator of these
activities in the president's office, has been charged with developing the
guidelines for the New Century Fund.
NCAA Accreditation. Vice President Harrison announced that as
part of the external phase of the NCAA certification process, a site visit team
will be visiting campus in the coming week. This team will review the
University's recently completed self-study and make recommendations to the
NCAA regarding certification.
Presidential Transition. Interim President Neal noted that he and
President Elect Bollinger have been working to assure a smooth transition
for the start of Bollinger's term on February 1, 1997.
White House Visit. Interim President Neal noted that Ms. Fiona
Rose, president of the Michigan Student Assembly, had appeared with
President Clinton at the White House for the announcement of new
government programs for student aid. He showed a videotape of the event.
The Future of Research Support
Vice President Neidhardt presented a report on the outlook for federal
investment in university research for the next five years and beyond,
including implications of these projections for the University of Michigan,
and the University's response to this situation. He observed that it is likely
that federal support for university-based research will decline. He noted that
because only 64 percent of the University's total research expenditure of
$441,294,540 is from federal sources, it is somewhat less dependent on
federal support than most of its peer institutions.  However, major
reductions in federal research support would have serious consequences for
the University, since this support provides tuition and stipends for students;
salaries for faculty, technicians, and students; assistance in purchasing
equipment and books; and funds for building renovation and construction.
In addition, the knowledge produced with this federal support contributes to
the reputation and prestige of the institution.
Vice President Neidhardt noted that the University's response to this
situation has included working to modify the federal research support
environment, increasing the University's competitive edge in vying for
decreasing federal resources, increasing the support faculty gain from other
sources, and increasing the efficiency of the University's research enterprise.
There followed some discussion about these issues. Assistant Vice
President Marvin Parnes noted that a group has been formed to determine
how the University can strengthen its relationships with industry.


195




January Meeting, 1997


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the meeting of
December 19, 1996.
Reports. Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the following
reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations,
and Noncompetitive Purchases greater than $5,000. Vice President Neidhardt
submitted Projects Established and Current Research and Sponsored Projects.
SACUA submitted the Faculty Governance Update.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted a report of gifts
received for the month of December 1996.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Abbott Laboratories Minority Merit Scholarship in the College
of Pharmacy, for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for scholarships and other support in the Schools of
Medicine, Nursing and Public Health.................................. $  25,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
1,917 shares of VLSI Inc., and 628 shares of Procept common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration......................  50,827
Phyllis R. Alen, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Exxon common stock
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women.... 10,031
Robert and Marjorie Alpern Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of Philip Morris common stock
for the conservatory at the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.........                            9,919
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 467,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division....................... 63,247
American Dental Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry..5,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts...........................                          160,403
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  147,273
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Schools of Medicine andPublic Health................. 111,000
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for biology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 15,000
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center, School of Business Administration... 159,696
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program, Transportation Research Institute... 20,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Study Abroad Program and the Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 5,000
Herbert S. Amster, Ann Arbor
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School
for the University Hospitthe Unhe University Library, the Museum of Art
and WUOM/WVGR; and for the University Musical Society.................. 6,610
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund. Medical School....... 10,000
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts...................................  86,920
Anonymous Donor
for support of the Law School........................................   125,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Walter Graves Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 35,000


196




January Meeting, 1997


Anonymous Donor
for the Endowed Research Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 5,203
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law School............................... 25,000
Anonymous Donor
530 shares of Pharmacia & Upjohn common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 20,239
Anonymous Donor
for the Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Museum  of Art................................. 40,000
Anonymous Donor
12,500 shares of TriMas Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the University Musical Society, and for the Dean's Distinguished Chair
in Humanities Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 316,719
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Eric R. Arnson, Lake Forest, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,650
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  12,875
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Arts Midwest Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University Musical Society......................................  11,957
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, in memory of Charles W. Attwood..................... 7,000
Robert G. Ause, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in Department of Athletics and University Musical Society...... 7,500
Nancy Azzam, Golden Valley, Minnesota
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, for the
Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center; and for the Baldwin Fellowship in
Astronomy and the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 47,000
Joseph C. Bancroft Educational and Charitable Foundation, McComb, Missouri
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  20,000
John S. Bandfield, Clearwater, Florida
for the John S. and Katherine J. Bandfield Student Loan Fund in the
School of Business Administration......................................  25,000
Harold S. Barron, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania
1,500 shares of Provident Financial Holding common stock
for the Harold S. Barron Scholarship in the Law School.................... 20,813
Luella C. Bassett Trust
for the Cary-Bassett Endowed Scholarship............................... 10,000
Cheryl M. Baumgartner, Moraga, California
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Football Scholarship and the Jerry Hanlon
Endowed Football Lineman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....... 7,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for the Nephrology Fellows Fund in the Medical School..................... 8,000
Gordon A. Berenson, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 6,000
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
840 shares of Edison International common stock
for research in the Medical School...................................... 16,748
Bruce P. Bickner, De Kalb, Illinois
1,150 shares of Apache Corporation common stock
for the Bruce P. Bickner Endowed Scholarship in the Law School............ 43,125
Jerry Bilik Music, Inc., Cabin John, Maryland
for the Helga and Jerry Bilik/William Revelli Music Education
Scholarship in the School of Music......................................   10,000
Bixby Foundation, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in
the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  7,500


197




January Meeting, 1997


Philip E. Blackerby, Punta Gorda, Florida
525 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Philip E. and Clare M. Blackerby Lectureship Fund in the School
of Public  Health..........................................      35,109
Herbert M. Blair, III, Spring Lake
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School................. 5,000
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 37,000
Walter W. Borland, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Joy M. Brewer Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 5,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Pharmacy and for employee matching gifts....... 5,050
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
for the Edmund B. and Eleanor E. Brownell Neurosurgery Fund in
the Medical School.................................................... 15,000
John H. Bryant, Ann Arbor
200 shares of AMP, Inc., common stock
for support in the Alumni Association and the College of Engineering......... 7,575
Bugas Fund, Dearborn
for the Charles G. Harris Neurological Research Fund, Medical School....... 25,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Norwest Corporation common stock
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center in the School of Natural
Resources and  Environment...........................................  23,094
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts........................................................  219,364
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering.... 5,000
Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School....................................   8,000
Mary Lincoln Campbell, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of TriMas Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration......................  49,875
Paul B. Campbell, Cleveland, Ohio
150 shares of Chemical Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law............... 5,288
Jean W. Campbell Trust
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund, and for the Clements Library.......... 5,050
Erin E. Cannon, Silver Spring, Maryland
for the Jo Eleanor Elliott Scholarship in the School of Nursing.............. 10,000
CaP Cure, Beverly Hills, California
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................  100,000
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for the EP Defibrillator Research Fund in the Medical School.............. 250,000
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the SOAR Research Fund in the College of Engineering................. 11,500
Mary A. Case Trust
for the Mary A. Case Fund and other support in the School of Music......... 37,931
Center for Biomedical Communication, Inc., Dumont, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,000
David G. Chardavoyne, Farmington Hills
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and the Jerry Hanlon Endowed
Football Lineman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................ 7,000
Mrs. Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 100,000
Chemtrak, Sunnyvale California
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,100
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  73,000
Arthur H. Clark Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital................................  370,000
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration........... 8,000
198




January Meeting, 1997


Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering................................  5,000
Graham H. Conger Estate
for the Julia Henning Conger Memorial Fund in the Alumni Association
and for the Ralph G. Conger Scholarship................................. 47,465
Cook Family Foundation
for the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Visitor Center........................... 20,000
Alice S. and Allen F. Corey Trust
for chemistry support and the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 8,500
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support of the Law School, for the Stearns Collection of Musical
Instruments in the School of Music, and for the Museum of Art.............. 6,200
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 7,000
James L. Curtis, Jamaica, New York
for the James L. and Vivian A. Curtis Fund in the School of Music and
for support in  the Medical School......................................  100,100
Jon A. Cyganiak, Brookfield, Wisconsin
2,500 shares of Criticare Systems common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 6,406
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,366
John Dahlgren, Flint
for the Designated Families Fund in the University Hospitals,
in memory of Hilda and Harley Miles....................................  12,500
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Dean Transportation, Inc., Lansing
for research in the Transportation Research Institute....................... 5,000
Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........... 30,000
Delta DentaI Fund, Okemos
for the Continuing Education Fund and the Pediatric Dental Clinic
Renovation Fund m the School of Dentistry.............................. 35,000
Roger E. DeMerritt, Rotonda West, Florida
235 shares of Norfolk Southern and
100 shares of United Wisconsin Services common stock
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 23,143
Jack Demmer Ford, Inc., Wayne
257 shares of Comerica common stock
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn.................................................  13,589
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn................................................. 15,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the Program in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering........... 10,000
Elizabeth B. Dexter, Ann Arbor
for the Benning Dexter Scholarship in the School of Music and
for support in  the School of Social  ork..................................  5,100
Jack H. DeYoung, Woodstown, New Jersey
500 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1936 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 28,063
Walt Disney Company, Burbank, California
for support m the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 15,000
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 16,000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation Midland
for the Dow Professorship in Public Health in the School of Public Health,
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for employee matching gifts............................... 415,628
Dow, U.S.A., Midland
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the Schools of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Renee P. Dubin, West Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
199




January Meeting, 1997


June Duck, Manalapan, New Jersey
for the Robert B. Sweet Memorial Fund in the Medical School............... 5,000
James S. Duesenberry, Belmont, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
for the Connie R. Dunlap Donor Pooled Income Fund and the Robert B.
and Connie Dunlap Endowment in the University Library................. 100,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for Under-Represented Students Scholarship, School of Business
Adm inistration.......................................................  10,000
Earl-Beth Foundation, St. Clair Shores
for support in the School of Education, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 5,000
Berneita K. Ebert Estate
for student aid in the School of Social Work.............................. 29,875
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the WilliamE. Zimmie Visiting Professorship in the College of Engineering... 9,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................. 9,552
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Terrence A. and Ruth F. Elkes Merit Scholarship, Law School....... 100,000
James H. Ellis, Ann Arbor
266 shares of SIG Corporation common stock
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School.................. 9,111
George M. Elsener, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for support of the Law School.......................................... 10,000
Enterprise Rent-a-Car Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Pediatric Survivors Day Fund in the Medical School................. 10,000
Entertainment Events, Inc., Wakerfield, Rhode Island
for the University Productions Gift Fund in the School of Music........... 20,000
Russell L. Epker Charitable Foundation Trust, Boston, Massachusetts
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
10,600 shares of SBC Communication, Inc., common stock
for the John D. Evans Fund........................................... 542,588
Fel-Pro, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 6,500
Richard A. Ferrington, Santa Rosa, California
100 shares of Clorox Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School, and the Clements and University Libraries. 10,088
Russell H. Fifield Living Trust
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center.................................... 10,000
Nathan M. Forbes, BloomfieId Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Sidney Forbes, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 5,000
Benson Ford, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn....................................................  5,000
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  5,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn.................................................  20,000
Henry Ford I Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn.................................................  20,000
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn................................................  20,000
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn................................................  20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and the  Arts..................................................  40,000
Henry Ford Health System, Detroit
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School
of Public  H ealth......................................................  12,000


200




January Meeting, 1997


Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the School of Education, and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt
Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.............................................................  10,000
Willard G. Fraumann, Deerfield, Illinois
140 shares of Dean Witter Discover common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
and for support in the College in Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 9,214
Freightliner Corporation, Portland, Oregon
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  15,000
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
300 shares of First Colony Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Law and Music, and for the University
M usica   Society......................................................  10,800
Duane W. Fuller, San Mateo, California
100 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 7,744
Wood M. Geist, Washington
for support in the Schools of Art and Education, for the.Humanities
Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
W UOM /W VGR..............................................  7,165
Sharof G. George, Burton
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 25,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for instructional support in the College of Engineering, and for human
factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 18,900
Brent L. Gephart, Ann Arbor
for support of the Law School; and for social sciences support at the
University  of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................  10,000
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  5,000
George D. Gotschall, Naples, Florida
1,800 shares of Automatic Data Processing and
1,200 shares of Walmart common stock
for the Gotschall Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering..................... 107,138
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, ew York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................ 51,856
Frances Greer, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
James B. Griffin Trust
for the Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts................20,000
Joseph F. Haas, Atlanta, Georgia
100 shares of Schlumberger, Ltd., common stock
for the Geismer-Haas-Remach Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  10,513
Barney J. Habel, Naples, Florida
6,000 shares of Citizens Utilities Company common stock
for the Lenora J. and Barney J. Habel Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of University Library and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.......................................  67,125
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Marina del Ray, California
for the Beverly Lannquist Hamilton Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Robert J. Hamman, Palm Desert, California
650 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Robert J. and Leah Hamman Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering...................... 19,134
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
Mary E. Hart Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 82,502
Nola A. Havelka, Apache Junction, Arizona
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 10,000
201




January Meeting, 1997


Vira I. Heinz Endowment, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Education...................................  50,000
Shirley & Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
or the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  20,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society................................ 5,000
Mary Jo C. Hewitt Trust
for the Mary Jo Hewitt Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn... 5,000
Jack D. Highfield, Grand Rapids
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.................................. 5,000
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
100 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for support in  the M edical School........................................  6,725
Ruth K. Hiltner Trust
for the Ruth and Albert Hiltner Fund in Astronomy, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research and the Russell N. DeJong Visiting Scholarship in the
Medical School.......                                              6,000
Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 25,000
Marjorie F. Hospidor Estate
for the Mary Dennis Follmer Faculty Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  53,750
Hospital Research and Educational Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health...............................  12,292
L. Douglas Hoyt, Denver, Colorado
for the John W. Reed Endowment in the Law School....................... 5,000
Mrs. George J. Huebner, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the George J. Huebner, Jr., Memorial Scholarship in the College
of Engineering, and for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in the School
of  M usic............................................................  10,500
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for theThoracic Surgery Research Fellowship in the Medical School......... 10,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for rear view mirror and human factors research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  42,500
IGI, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for research in the College of Pharmacy..................................  30,000
Inman Family Foundation, Detroit
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 7,500
Intel Corporation, Hills oro, Oregon
for the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering............... 30,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
1,216 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  65,664
Lloyd A. Jacobs, Ann Arbor
for the MomentUm: Advancing Medicine at Michigan Fund in the
M edical School........................................................  5,000.
Raymond Jarvis Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital...................................  25,000
T. S. Jenkins & Associates, Inc., Flint
for W FUM -TV..............................................  6,000
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
361 shares of Parametic Technology common stock
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School................... 20,216
Rodney C. Johnson, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for support in the School of Music............................       5,000
Johnson & Johnson Products, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School................ 5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health
and Social Work; and for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for
Social Research....................................................  1,337,960


202




January Meeting, 1997


John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  Arts..............................................................  5,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work.............................. 98,375
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
3,000 shares of Symix Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 24,188
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada
for research in the Medical School..................................... 12,367
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................... 21,882
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Junior Year in Freiburg Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................  20,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the Benny Friedman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.......... 7,500
Harvey E. Kapnick, Jr., Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Scholarship in the School of Business Administration... 35,000
A. T. Kearney, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  7,500
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Law School....................................... 492,366
C. Robert Kidder, New Albany, Ohio
4,000 shares of Duracell common stock
for the C. Robert and Mary Kidder Endowed Scholarship in the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 266,500
Kirkland & Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School, and for
employee matching gifts............................................. 150,125
Bruce L. Koepfgen, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  14,000
Koepfgen Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 8,000
C. Douglas Kranwinkle, New York, New York
for the support of the Law School....................................... 5,000
David T. Krom, Northville
for the Jason Krom Memorial Scholarship................................. 5,000
Samuel I. Krugliak, Canton, Ohio
for support of the Law School.......................................... 5,000
Bernard J. Lacroute, Saratoga, California
1,102 shares of Arris Pharmaceutical common stock
for the Helfman Literary Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for support in the College of Engineering......... 15,221
John W. Lawrence, Richland
for the Teaching Excellence Fund in the School of Business
A dm inistration........................................................  5,000
Leader Machine Products, Inc., Westland
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,025
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
130 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Endowment Funds in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  6,825
Roger H. L'Hommedieu Estate
for support in the College of Pharmacy.................................   25,000
Liberty Anesthesia, P.C., Freehold, New Jersey
for the Robert B. Sweet Memorial Fund in the Medical School............... 5,000
Richard T. Liddicoat, Jr Los Angeles, California
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................                                10000
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, DC
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School...................... 8,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.......... 32,813
J. Mark and Lind C. Lozier Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Loganberry Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 15,000


203




January Meeting, 1997


Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
Paul M. Lurie, Evanston, Illinois
125 shares of Diebold, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School, and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts..........................................................  7,422
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 33,333
Donald H. Malloure, Beverly Hills
1,000 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  77,313
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
for the Birthday Greeting Fund in the Alumni Association................... 5,000
Lucille P. Markey Charitable Trust
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  57,717
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  13,500
Richard H. May, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School, and for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.... 5,100
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the School of Education................................. 110,856
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, and for the University Musical Society..... 5,100
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music.......... 10,000
Joanne T. Meagher, Ypsilanti
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 6,000
Medical School Class of 1951, Ann Arbor
for the Medical Class of 1951 Scholarship in the Medical School............. 24,619
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  40,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry and for
the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School..................... 145,000
Helen L. Metzner, Ann Arbor
for the Jean  Campbell Research Fund....................................  5,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for the Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School
of Dentistry....................................................... 5,250
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for the Monroe-Brown Undergraduate Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration, and the Monroe-BrownFund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the Robert H. Lurie
Engineering Center in the College of Engineering and the Hill
Auditorium  Restoration Fund.........................................  125,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts...............................................  147 88
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Dentistry.................................. 20,000
Ruediger Naumann-Etienne, Oakland, California
for the Ph.D. Program and other support in the School of Business
A dm inistration........................................................  5,000
Robert E. Nederlander, New York, New York
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............ 10,000
Ann Newman, Bloomfield Hills
1,500 shares of Arbor Drugs, Inc., common stock
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  41,813
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in Physical Medicine in
the Medical School....................................................  15,000
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..........................................  12,160


204




January Meeting, 1997


NYX, Inc., Livonia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 8,000
William P. O'Neill, Washington, DC
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Orthopaedic Foundation for Animals, Inc., Columbia, Missouri
for research in the Medical School............................     18,750
Wilbur A. Osterling Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
For research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies.....................................................  45,000
Marion E. Paine Estate
for the Willmarth R. and Marion E. Paine Scholarship in the School
of D entistry........................................................  240,000
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching gifts.............................................   6,330
Beatrice Paul, Bloomfield ills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration.............................................. 10,000
Dorothy K. Peckham, Hendersonville, North Carolina
for the Clements Library..............................................  10,000
Howard H. Peckham, Hendersonville, North Carolina
for the Clements Library.............................................. 10,000
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School...........................................  5,000
Perrin Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for the John Stephenson Perrin Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  25,000
Norman G. Peslar Trustee, Warren
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Peterson American Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute.............................................................  5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research....... 75,000
Ronald L. Piasecki, Spring Lake
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.......... 5,000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Victor L. Bernard-Price Waterhouse LLP Collegiate Professorship of
Accounting in the School of Business Administration...................... 30,000
Arthur C. Prine, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
9,283 shares of R. R. Donnelle & Sons Company common stock
for the Arthur C. Prine, Jr., Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund.......... 282,551
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for the Alumni Scholarship in the Law School............................ 10,000
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,916
Ahmad Rahbar, Wheeling, West Virginia
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Leonard Rand, Moreland Hills, Ohio
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 7,000
Kenlee Ray, Washington DC.
100 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for the Alumni Society Scholarship Fund in the School of Information........ 8,219
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for the building fund in the School of Social Work......................... 10,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust, Grand Rapids
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Foundation Award in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  5,501
Richart & Company, Detroit
for the F.E. Richart, Jr., Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 10,000
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
620 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 24,955
205




January Meeting, 1997


Thomas B. Ridgley, Columbus, Ohio
315 shares of Worthington Industries common stock
for support of the Law School............................. 6,005
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
434 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Margaret Ann Riecker Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 33,744
Bernard B. Rinella, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard B. and Gloria L. Rinella Awards in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 5,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Integrated Pre-Medical Scholarship
in  the Medical School.............................................  6,720
John O. Robertson, Jr., Melbourne, Florida
5,118 shares of American Business Products, Inc., common stock
for the John O. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship................ 129,869
Rosenstiel Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Law School.........................................  5,000
Peter J. Rosewig, Hobe Sound, Florida
for the Peter J. and Theta M. Rosewig Women's Athletic Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics............................................  50,000
Lois R. Ross, Naples, Florida
for the College of Arts and Sciences and the Coleman and Lois Ross
Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 50,000
Ross Technology, Austin, Texas
for the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering............... 15,000
Anne P. Rowe, Kettering, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
Marshall V. Rozzi, Chicago, Illinois
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health.............. 5,000
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for student aid in  the Medical School.....................................  6,000
Margery H. Ruth Trust
for the J. Griswold and Margery Hopkins Ruth Endowment in the
M edical School......................................................  100,000
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute...................................................  140,000
Lowell Saferstein, West Orange, New Jersey
for the Aczel Testament Project Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Betty Hamady Sams, Bethesda, Maryland
1,875 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock
for the James and Betty Sams Dean's Fund in the Law School.............. 37,734
James F. Sams, Bethesda, Maryland
1,875 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock
for the James and Betty Sams Dean's Fund in the Law School.............. 37,734
Sandoz Research Institute, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School...................... 15,750
Saul S. Saulson, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
William W. Saulson, Southfield
345 shares of Union Pacific Resources common stock
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,005
Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common
stock and a cash gift
for the Museum of Art, and for the Charles H. and Katharine C. Sawyer
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  16,369
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School...................... 27,000
Schlumberger Dowell, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction of Porous
Media in the College of Engineering................... 20,000


206




January Meeting, 1997


Jack Schneider, Southfield
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Nancy Dolan Schrank, Pepper Pike, Ohio
130 shares of Comerlca common stock
for the Schrank Family Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  7,605
Sealed Power Technologies, Muskegon
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  6,500
Seariver Maritime, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Center for Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College
of Engineering...................................................... 20,000
Sensordata Technologies, Inc., Sterling Heights
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn....................................................  5,000
Shirley S. Shafter Estate
or support in the Medical School, in memory of Dr. Royce R. Shafter........ 10,000
Arun K. Sharma, Midland, Texas
for the G. D. Sharma Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts..........................................................  7,500
Jack H. Shuler, Naples, Florida
2,818 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering and the Law School, and
for the Jack H. and Elizabeth G. Shuler Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics.............. 109,677
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art.................. 10,000
Caleb R. Smith Estate
for the Caleb R. and Clara D. Smith Memorial Loan Fund in the
M edical School.......................................              36,385
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
195 shares of Tyco International, Ltd., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,481
John L. Sobieski, Jr., Knoxville, Tennessee
for support of the Law School.......................                  5,000
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.............................  8,000
Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Marietta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  18,642
Marvin J. Sonosky, Alexandria, Virginia
for the Native American Resource Scholarship in the School of Natural
Resources and  Environment............................................  5,000
Lyle L. Stephens, East Lansing
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...................... 20,000
Gladys I. Stone Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 36,427
Ann E. Stoner, Carlisle, Pennsylvania
200 shares of Catalina Marketing Corporation common stock
for the University of Michigan Club of Central Pennsylvania Scholarship in
the Alumni Association...............................................  10,600
Robert W. Storer, Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of Hartford Steam Boiler common stock
for the Robert W. Storer Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts........................................................  54,825
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School.... 6,500
Jason R. Swallen Trust
for the Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carme and Thomas P. Borders, Ann Arbor
for the Mary C. and Thomas P. Borders Women's Basketball Scholarship
in  the  Department of Athletics....................................  20,000
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship, College of Engineering... 8,800
Tenneco Management Company, Houston Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
59 shares of Chase Manhattan Bank common stock
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,391


207




January Meeting, 1997


Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Frank H. Tranzow, Arcadia, California
for support in the School of Nursing....................................  8,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.................. 5,000
Trinova Corporation, Maumee, Ohio
for automotive transportation Research, Transportation Research Institute.... 5,000
Tularik, South San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School...................................... 35,000
Susan B. Ullrich Trust
for the John Ullrich Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering...... 12,500
United Technologies Automotive, Dearborn
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor,
Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor;
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship in the Alumni Association............. 20,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship in
the Alumni Association................................................. 7,500
John N. VanOtterloo, Granger, Indiana
250 shares of Digital Link Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund, the Varsity Tennis Complex the
Canham Natatorium and other support in the Department of Athletics........ 5,703
David L. Verlee, Holland
889 shares of Republic Bancorp common stock
for the David L. and Jayne M. Verlee Endowment for Vision Research in
the Medical School............................. 10,279
Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School.... 50,000
Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society.....................................  20,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public
Health, for the Parke-Davis Visiting Professorship in Pharmacology
in the College of Pharmacy; and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...... 169,680
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the building fund in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 46,500
Washtenaw United Way Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Dentistry, Nursing and Medicine; and for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  9,084
Walter J. Weber Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship in
the  College of Engineering.............................................  60,000
Kenneth Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
315 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,139
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the School of Dentistry, the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 286,285
Robert L. Whitney, Princeton, Massachusetts
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature Science, and the Arts...................5..................   5,000
Janette F. Williams, Ann Arbor
507 shares of Coca-Cola common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Pediatric Hematology Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  24 621
Thomas S. Wilson, Rochester Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
Walter E. Wilson Trust
100 shares of Niagara Mohawk common stock and a cash gift
for the support in the College of Engineering............................ 400,950
Kurt J. Wolff, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
J. Reimer Wolter, Ann Arbor
for hypertension research in the Medical School............................  5,000
Ronald J. Woods, North Palm Beach, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
208




January Meeting, 1997


Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the building fund, School of Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn... 50,000
Gerlind Wuepper, Astoria, Oregon
2,318 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Kirk D. Wuepper Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
M edical School....................................................   234,944
Minoru Yamasaki Associates, Inc., Rochester Hills
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 7,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School........................... 50,000
Roy H. Ziegler Trust
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
Ferdinand B. Zienty St. Louis, Missouri
1,000 shares of Monsanto Company common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, and for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Donor
Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Pharmacy..... 41,469
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Catherine K. Ferrell, Merritt Island, Illinois
a sculpture entitled, "The Stream" for the Frances Willson Thompson Library
Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
an HP C110 workstation for the Department of Aerospace Engineering
SpaceLabs Medical, Redmond, Washington
two monitoring systems for the Department of Biomedical Engineering
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Frank DeLorenzo, Flint              Royalite Company, Flint
Diane S. Gaffney, Ann Arbor         Southeast Asia Art Foundation,
Patricia House, Flint                      Hill, New Hampshire
Personnel Actions Provost Machen submitted a number of personnel
actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Peters, Mathilde C., D.M.D., Professor of Dentistry, February 1, 1997
Roush, William R., Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, and the
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor of Chemistry, five year term, July 1, 1997
Stacchetti, Ennio S., Ph.D., from Associate Professor of Economics to Professor of
Economics, January 1, 1997
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective February 1, 1997
Brockbank, Joseph W., from Visiting Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management to Associate Professor of Education, five-year term


209




January Meeting, 1997


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of American Culture, without tenure, February 1, 1997
Rogers, W. Leslie, Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Tsui, Louis Y., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn, also appointed Acting Associate Dean, School of Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, four-month term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Johnston, Lysle E., Jr., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, also appointed the Robert W.
Browne Professor, five-year term, September 1, 1996
Sperber, Dan, the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law, January 1-May 31, 1997
Warren, Jeffrey S., Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, also appointed the Alfred
Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon Weller Professor of Pathology, five-year term, June 1, 1997
Establishment of Endowed Professorship in Academic Pathology.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Endowed Professorship in
Academic Pathology, effective January 24, 1997.
Establishment of Endowed Professorship in Pathology Research.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Endowed Professorship in
Pathology Research, effective January 24, 1997.
Committee appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Algase, Donna L., January 1, 1997-June 30, 1998, vice Katherine R. Jones, unable to serve
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Division of Kinesiologv
Aguirre, A. Nia M., B.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, December 1, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Levy, Zachary M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science
Miller, Nicole N., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Thomas, Linda K., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Medical School
Kintanar, Esperanza B., M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, December 1, 1996


210




January Meeting, 1997


Lubitz, Deborah S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, November 1, 1996
Pass, Helen A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, December 1, 1996
Robertson, Erle S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Sachdev, Vandana, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, November 25, 1996
School of Public Health
Heller, Keith E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Epidemiology, October 21, 1996
Pollack, Harold A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy
UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Kovalak, William P., Ph.D., Lecturer in Biology
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Steet, Linda M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lindsay, Lisa A., Lecturer II in African History and Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African
Studies (previously approved effective September 1, 1996)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Merriwether, David A., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Biology, December 5, 1996
Medical School
Bishop, Dennis K., Assistant Professor of Surgery, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, October 1, 1996
Fisher, Laurel R., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Instructor II in Internal
Medicine, October 1, 1996
Petty, Elizabeth M., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Human Genetics, November 1, 1996
Severin, John D., from Clinical Instructor II in Family Practical to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Family Practice, September 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1-April 30, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gosling, L. A. Peter, Professor Emeritus of Southeast Asian Studies
Mersereau, John, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures
Medical School
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, January 1-December 31, 1997
School of Public Health
Romani, John H., Professor Emeritus of Public Health Administration, January 1-December
31, 1997


211




January Meeting, 1997


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Richardson, Frank C., Professor Emeritus of French, German, and Comparative Literature
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Scott, Richard A., Professor of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Beaver, Frank E., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Professor of Film
and Video Studies, without tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 1, 1997
Chow, Timothy Y., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave,
January 1-December 31, 1997
Jones, Lawrence W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1998
Lauter, Kristin E., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave
without salary, January 1-December 31, 1997
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies,
with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Owen, Robert M., Professor of Marine Geology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Pernick, Martin S., Professor of History, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
January 1-December 31, 1997
Scott, Julius S. III, Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies and of History,
leave without salary, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 1997
Walter, Lynn M., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Wilkinson, Bruce H., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
Wu, Alfred C., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased),
September 1, 1997-May 31, 1999
Medical School
Adler, Ronald S., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1997
Bowerman, Richard A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
Januaryl-June 30, 1997
DeAngelis, Elisa M., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, extended sick leave,
October 24-December 11, 1996
Ellis, Charles N., Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 16, 1996-March 15, 1997
Weber, Wendell W., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor
of Toxicology, Environmental, and Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public
Health, retirement furlough, September 1, 1996-December 31, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Paul, Ara G., Dean Emeritus and Professor of Pharmacognosy, with tenure, retirement
furlough (phased), January 1-April 30, 1999
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Watkins, Marcia Y., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave,
December 15-31, 1996


212




January Meeting, 1997


CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Ben-Joseph, Oded, Assistant Professor of Radiological Sciences, leave without salary, August
1-December 31, 1996 (previously reported as August 1-September 30, 1996)
TERMINATIONS
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Plannin'
Saul, Joseph M., Lecturer in Urban Planning, term complete
School of Dentistry
Pape, Harry R., Jr., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retired
College of Engineering
Bigelow, Wilbur C., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, with tenure, resigned,
October 13, 1996
Hancock, Walton M., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering, and Professor of Health Services Management and Policy,
without tenure, School of Public Health, retired, January 2, 1997
Mathes, John C., Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, retired
Stevenson, Dwight W., Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, retired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Houck, John C., Lecturer II in Astronomy, resigned
Ness, Gayl D., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Population Planning and International Health, without tenure,
School of Public Health, retired
Oswald, Gilbert II, Lecturer I in English, term complete
Sobeloff, Judith E., Lecturer I in English, term complete
Steeh, Charlotte G., Lecturer II in Sociology, resigned, October 31, 1996
Tin, Siu-Kei, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, resigned
Tobing, Bahal I., Lecturer II in Indonesian, resigned
Medical School
Allen, Richard J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and
Professor of Pediatrics, without tenure, retired
Muller, David W., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, resigned, October
13, 1996
Niceley, Loriann F., Clinical Associate II in Surgery, resigned, February 28, 1997
Selvaggi, Suzanne M., Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, resigned
Terpeluk, Paul A., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, October 31, 1996
School of Music
Britton, Allen P., Dean Emeritus and roessor EmerEitus of Music, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Wilson, George B., Professor Emeritus of Music (composition), term complete,
December 31, 1995
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Bassett, John R., Professor Emeritus of Forestry, term complete, April 30, 1996
School of Nursing
Gage, Lois W., Professor Emerita of Nursing, term complete, April 30, 1996


213




January Meeting, 1997


School of Public Health
Penchansky, Roy, Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, retired
School of Social Work
Gibson, Rose C., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retired
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted seven retirement
memoirs.
Richard J. Allen, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable
diseases and professor of pediatrics, Department of Neurology, Medical
School, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Dr. Allen received his B.A., M.D., and M.S. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1945, 1949, and 1953, respectively, and completed his pediatric
residency at the University of Michigan Medical Center in 1952. From
1955-56, he held a National Cerebral Palsy Fellowship in Pediatric Neurology
at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He joined the faculty
of the Department of Pediatrics at the University of Michigan in 1957 as an
instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1958, associate
professor in 1962, and professor in 1968. He has held a joint appointment
with the Department of Neurology since 1980.
The primary academic focus of Dr. Allen's career has been on
understanding the pathophysiology and improving the treatment of neurometabolic diseases of children. He established a state-funded program to
provide optimal treatment for children with several inherited neurometabolic
diseases that are detectable in the neonatal period by newborn screening. He
has also served as an important advocate for children with these rare
disorders.
Dr. Allen is the author of numerous publications and has been an invited
speaker at many scientific meetings. He was a founding member of the Child
Neurology Society and hosted the first meeting of this group in Ann Arbor 25
years ago. His contributions to the Child Neurology Society, which has grown
exponentially since its inception, are being recognized at this year's national
meeting. Dr. Allen is also a member of the Society for Pediatric Research
(emeritus), Society of Inherited Metabolic Disease, the Midwest Society for
Pediatric Research, and the International Society for Neonatal Screening.
Within the University of Michigan Medical Center, Dr. Allen served as
director of the Division of Pediatric Neurology (1968-79), director of the
Pediatric Neurology and PKU clinical and laboratory programs (1968-80), and
has been director of the Pediatric Neurology Metabolic Clinic and Laboratory
since 1980.
In recognition of his distinguished career as a clinician, scholar, and
teacher, the Regents name Richard J. Alien professor emeritus of pediatrics
and communicable diseases and professor emeritus of pediatrics in the
Department of Neurology.
James L. Daws, Jr., associate research scientist in the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, retired from active faculty
status on June 10, 1996, after 39 years as a researcher and lecturer.
Dr. Daws received his B.S. degree in 1959, his M.S. degree in 1961, and
his Ph.D. degree in 1969, all from the University of Michigan. He was


214




January Meeting, 1997


appointed assistant research engineer in 1959, became associate research
engineer in 1970, and associate research scientist in 1974. Dr. Daws has also
served as a lecturer on both the Ann Arbor and Dearborn campuses.
Most of Dr. Daws' research     involved the  interplay  of digital
communications systems and pseudo random sequences, now known as
"spread spectrum" systems. He also developed control systems for automatic
processing of underwater acoustic scientific experiments. Dr. Daws is the
author of several journal articles and has written many technical reports as a
researcher in the Cooley Electronics Laboratory and the Communication and
Signal Processing Laboratory. He is noted both for building systems that
work and for understanding them. Dr. Daws also contributed in other areas,
including his work with the Space Physics Research Laboratory on the design
and development of a microprocessor-controlled instrument for use on an
unmanned spacecraft. He was a member of a consulting team on the overall
internal communications system for the University of Michigan Replacement
Hospital Project and consulted with urban planning researchers for the City
of Detroit's radio communications and control systems.
Between 1974 and 1996, Dr. Daws taught over 3,200 students on both
the Ann Arbor and Dearborn campuses. Balancing applications with theory,
he focused on areas that directly supported local industry. His courses ranged
from graduate courses on modem control and digital communications to basic
undergraduate courses in instrumentation, network synthesis, automatic
control, computer languages, electromechanical energy conversion, and linear
systems.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James L. Daws,
Jr., associate research scientist emeritus.
Rose C. Gibson, professor of social work in the School of Social Work,
faculty associate in the Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for
Social Research, and faculty associate in the Institute of Gerontology, retired
from active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Professor Gibson received her B.A. degree in 1946 from Wayne State
University and her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1968 and 1977, respectively,
from the University of Michigan. She joined the Institute of Gerontology as a
research investigator in 1979.  She was promoted to assistant research
scientist in 1982 and associate research scientist in 1984. She joined the
faculty of the School of Social Work in 1985 as an associate professor. She was
granted tenure in 1988 and was promoted to professor in 1992. She has been a
faculty associate in the Institute for Social Research since 1987.
A nationally and internationally recognized scholar on the subject of race
and aging, Professor Gibson is known for her empirical models of race
differences in the aging process. She was the first to identify a black-white
morbidity crossover in national data and to identify race differences in the
meaning and measurement of self-reported health in national surveys. She
has published numerous articles and book chapters, as well as several books,
including Different Worlds: Inequality in the Aging Experience, Blacks in an
Aging Society, Health in Black America, and Aging and the Life Course. Her
textbooks on inequality in aging are widely used in undergraduate sociology
courses.


215




January Meeting, 1997


Professor Gibson is editor-in-chief of The Gerontologist, the largest
multidisciplinary peer-reviewed research journal on aging. She chaired the
Governor's Task Force on New Work and Retirement Arrangements for the
Older Worker and was vice chair of the Governor's Task Force on
Employment Opportunities for Older Citizens. Her awards include the Wilbur
J. Cohen Award for outstanding contributions to aging research and the Ida I.
Beam Distinguished Professorship. Her groundbreaking work on racial
differences in mortality rates, retirement, and health status has brought her
international acclaim and has brought distinction to the School of Social Work
and the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Rose C. Gibson professor emerita of social work.
Walton M. Hancock, professor of industrial and operations engineering
in the College of Engineering and professor of health services management
and policy in the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on
January 2, 1997.
Professor Hancock received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in 1951,
1952, and 1954, respectively, all from The Johns Hopkins University. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1959 as a lecturer. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1960 and professor in 1962. Professor
Hancock served as associate dean of the College of Engineering and director
of the Center for Research on Integrated Manufacturing from 1985-89.
Professor Hancock's pioneering studies in the 1960s of direct labor
planning demonstrated how human performance data could be statistically
analyzed and used to predict plant staffing requirements. One of his many
original contributions was the "learning curve," a statistical method for
forecasting how quickly workers could be expected to learn new skills. In the
1970s, Professor Hancock recognized the need for cost containment within
the health care industry. Using advanced industrial engineering tools, he
demonstrated conclusively how various patient scheduling schemes affect
hospital staffing requirements and described how surgical units could use
industrial engineering methods to improve patient care and efficiency. This
work led to a joint appointment in the School of Public Health, two
highly-regarded books, a series of short courses for practicing industrial
engineers in hospitals, and a joint master's program in industrial and hospital
administration. In the 1980s, Professor Hancock turned his attention to the
problem of quality assurance in manufacturing systems, developing concepts
that have been widely adopted by the automotive industry.
Professor Hancock has chaired or co-chaired 34 Ph.D. thesis committees,
and many of his former students are now leaders in academia and industry.
He has co-authored 3 books and published numerous journal articles, book
chapters, and technical reports. During his career, he has received numerous
awards, including the College of Engineering's prestigious Stephen S. Attwood
Award in 1981 and the Gilbreth Medal in 1982. He was named the first
William Clay Ford Professor of Product Manufacturing in 1989.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Walton M.
Hancock professor emeritus of industrial and operations engineering and
professor emeritus of health services management and policy.


216




January Meeting, 1997


John C. Mathes, professor of technical communication, College of
Engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1996, after 33
years of service.
Professor Mathes received his B.A. degree in 1952, his M.A. degree in
1953, and his Ph.D. degree in 1965, all from the University of Michigan. He
joined the College of Engineering as an instructor in 1963. He was promoted
to assistant professor in 1966, associate professor in 1970, and professor in
1975. Professor Mathes served as chair of the Department of Humanities
from 1976-81. Within the University, he has also been affiliated with the
Center for Research on Economic Development; the Urban, Technological,
and Environmental Planning Program; and the Engineering for Public
Systems Program.
Professor Mathes has had a major influence on the development of the
current theory and practice of technical communications, having authored 8
books and more than 70 other publications. His book, Designing Technical
Reports, co-authored with his colleague Dwight W. Stevenson, became the
model for many of the important current textbooks in the field. His
subsequent work explored the relationships among technical communication
and such previously unexplored cognate areas as organizational behavior,
management communication, multinational communication, and social
decision analysis.  With his process-based approach to organizational
communication and his multidisciplinary scholarship, he broadened the scope
of technical communications and helped to establish a research agenda for the
future.
Professor Mathes' research interests include social decision analysis,
socioenvironmental impact analysis, and technology and society. A member of
numerous professional organizations, he has consulted widely in the United
States and Japan. Professor Mathes is co-chair of the Technical English
Proficiency Test, a certification program for Japanese managers and
engineers carried out under an agreement among the University of Michigan,
Waseda University (Japan), and the Tokyo Center for Language and Culture.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming John C. Mathes
professor emeritus of technical communication.
Roy Penchansky, professor of health management and policy, retired
from active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Professor Penchansky received his B.A. degree from St. Peter's College,
Jersey City, New Jersey, in 1956. He completed graduate work in industrial
and labor relations at Cornell University, where he received his M.I.L.R..
degree in 1958; and then went to Harvard University, where he received his
D.B.A. degree from the School of Business Administration in 1962. He was
assistant professor of administration in medical care at Harvard from 1963
until joining the University of Michigan faculty in 1966 as associate professor
of medical care organization in the School of Public Health. He was promoted
to professor in 1972.
Professor Penchansky was an innovator in the education of community
leaders and health care professionals. He worked with the U.S. Office of
Economic Opportunity to educate leaders in minority populations in the management
of community health centers. In the 1970s, Professor Penchansky developed and
instituted the nation's first executive master's degree program in health care


217




January Meeting, 1997


administration in the Department of Medical Care Organization. This
program has served as the model for five executive programs in other
departments in the School of Public Health and has been emulated by
numerous universities across the county.
Professor Penchansky was a pioneer in research on health maintenance
organizations. His work with colleagues in the 1970s remains some of the
most important research on HMO enrollment choice. He has also authored a
number of papers and research monographs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Roy Penchansky professor emeritus of health management and policy.
Dwight W. Stevenson, professor of technical communication, College of
Engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Professor Stevenson received his B.A. degree in 1955 from the University
of Kentucky and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1957 and 1965, respectively,
from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in 1959 and was promoted to assistant professor in
1965, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1976. He served as chair of
the Department of Humanities from 1981-84, as director of instructional
television from 1984-89, and as assistant dean for continuing education from
1989-95.  In 1988-89, Professor Stevenson also held the post of acting
executive director of the Michigan Information Technology Network, a
private, nonprofit corporation formed for professional outreach purposes by
the four research universities in Michigan.
Professor Stevenson has authored or co-authored seven books and
numerous journal articles in the areas of technical communication, legal
communication, business communication, and composition. He has concentrated
his research and teaching on making the design of written technical
information meet the needs of diverse users within specific corporate
contexts.  He has also worked extensively on teacher training and the
development of new teaching materials. For eleven years (1975-85), he
co-chaired annual conferences, "Teaching Technical and Professional
Communication," which attracted more than 450 university faculty from all
over the world. In 1993, he received the College of Engineering Excellence in
Teaching Award.
Professor Stevenson has served regularly as a consultant to corporations,
government agencies, and academic institutions in the United States and
abroad. He is the co-author of the Technical English Proficiency Test, which
has been administered to professionals nationally in Japan since 1984 under
an intellectual property agreement among the Regents of the University of
Michigan, Waseda University (Japan), and the Tokyo Center for Language
and Culture. In association with this test, Professor Stevenson regularly
visits Japan, consults with Japanese companies, and co-hosts visitors to the
University of Michigan from Japanese corporations.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Dwight W.
Stevenson professor emeritus of technical communication.
Memorials. Provost Machen noted that a memorial statement for
Professor Betty Jean Jones would be included with the February agenda.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.


218




January Meeting, 1997


Consent agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was taken.
B III Capital Partners, L.P.
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents that
the University had committed $10 million to B III Capital Partners, L.P., as
described in the Regents Communication.
Trinity Investment Management Corporation
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved adoption of the ValuePlex Strategy offered
by Trinity Investment Management Corporation, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was
taken.
University Housing: Hill Area Community Commons
Vice President Hartford observed that as a residential campus, the
University is committed to providing quality housing and dining facilities for
students to support their academic programs.  In keeping with that
commitment, construction of a new dining commons is being proposed which
would replace four older facilities in the four "Hill area" residence halls. She
called on Mr. William Zeller, director of housing, to present the rationale for
this facility.
Mr. Zeller noted that the proposed facility would fulfill needs in six key
areas: 1) it would eliminate the need for $2-3 million in renovations required
for the current dining facilities; 2) it would require fewer student employees,
alleviating the conditions created by the shortage of students seeking
employment; 3) consolidating four dining centers into one would accrue
savings that would allow amortization of the project cost to be made without
raising room and board rates; 4) the air conditioned new dining center would
enhance summer school and conference programs; 5) it would facilitate
Housing's ability to address changing student dietary needs and eating
habits; 6) consolidation would free up 40,000 - 50,000 square feet of space
which could be used to meet student resident needs.
Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, then made a presentation
describing the proposed site. He noted that the central location would be
immediately connectable to Mosher Jordan and Alice Lloyd residence halls,
and that it would be possible also to make enclosed connections to Cousins
and Stockwell Halls.
Following Mr. Mayer's presentation, Regent Newman said that if
Cousins and Stockwell were not connected via an enclosed walkway she
would not be able to support the project. She also expressed concern that the
costs for renovating the space that would be vacated by this project had not
been addressed.
Vice President Hartford said that she agreed that there should be
covered walkways to the new facility, and that this would be included in the
219




January Meeting, 1997


instructions to the architects. Mr. Mayer pointed out that an underground
enclosed connector could be readily incorporated in the plan.  Regent
Newman stated that she would not be willing to support the project unless
interior connections with all four residence halls were incorporated as
required aspects of the project.
With regard to use of the vacated space, Vice President Hartford noted
that there are a number of options available. Renovation into student rooms
would pay for itself from the housing revenue that would be generated.
Merely opening the dining halls for study or programmatic space would
engender practically no costs. She stated that there will be no new costs as a
result of this project.
Regent Newman stated that she did not want to be asked in the future
to raise room and board rates to pay for the vacated space. Vice President
Hartford said she understands that and does not plan on making such a
request.
Regent Newman moved approval of the Hill Area Community Commons
Project (residence hall dining facility), including the proposed site and
appointment of Hobbs + Black Associates, Inc., of Ann Arbor as architect
working in association with Perry Dean Rogers & Partners of Boston,
Massachusetts, subject to the understanding that enclosed, indoor connectors
between all of the affected residence halls be included as part of the design.
Regent McFee seconded the motion.
Regent Newman also noted that although it would not be part of her
motion, the record should reflect her comments that there should be no
increase in room and board rates as a result of renovation of the vacated
space.
Regent Power observed that it is important that there be student input
in order to achieve the new facility's goal of having an improved dining
experience for students. Vice President Hartford observed that student
input and decision-making had been sought throughout the development of
this project. She noted that the president of the student Residence Halls
Association was planning to speak in favor of the project during the public
comments session.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Michigan Health Corporation
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved an amendment to the articles of incorporation
for the Michigan Health Corporation in order to comply with a request from
the Internal Revenue Service, as described in the Regents' Communication.
Contract or Purchase Order with TEN Arquitectos
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a contract or purchase order with the architectural
firm of TEN Arquitectos. Because the principal architect and 80 percent owner
of TEN Arquitectos, Enrique Norten, is also a University employee, this


220




January Meeting, 1997


contract is subject to the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and the
architectural firm of TEN Arquitectos of Mexico City.
2.  The assignment is to analyze the existing Art and Architecture
Building, to assess its renovation potential in light of modern
teaching requirements and to develop a program for the subsequent
renovation of the building. Duration of the contract with TEN
Arquitectos will be through August 1997 and the terms will be based
on a lump sum payment which will not exceed $200,000. University
personnel will be involved in coordinating the work, supplying
support services and representing the best interests of the University.
3.  The pecuniary interest to Professor Norten is the amount paid for
the services as stated above, because of his ownership interest in
TEN Arquitectos.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and M-Vision, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement with M-Vision for a
subcontract to assist in a project for which M-Vision has received funding
through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program.
Because Sridhar Lakshmanan is both a University of Michigan employee
and the sole owner and shareholder of M-Vision and will also be participating
in this project on behalf of M-Vision, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
M-Vision, Inc.
2.  Terms of the agreement are that Dr. Yi Lu Murphey will receive
$3,000 of her University salary and a graduate student research
assistant will receive salary and tuition support in the amount of
$9,340. The amount of the subcontract to the University is $15,340.
The period of performance is one year.
3.  Dr. Lakshmanan will not play any role in the University's
performance of this agreement.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Public Data
Queries, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Public Data Queries, Inc., (PDQ) for continuation of the
University's participation as a subcontractor of PDQ for work involved in a
NIH Small Business Technology Transfer (SBTT) award received by PDQ.
Because William Frey is both a University employee and also the vice
president for educational development of PDQ, this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


221




January Meeting, 1997


1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Public
Data Queries, Inc. (PDQ).
2.  The amount of the subcontract from PDQ is $150,000 and the period
of performance is two years. There are no University employees who
are officers and/or shareholders in PDQ who will play any role in the
University's performance of this agreement.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.08
Regent McFee moved approval of a change in Regents' Bylaw Section
11.08 that would expand membership of the executive board of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies so as to include one representative each
from the Flint and Dearborn campuses. Regent Newman seconded the
motion, and following some discussion, it was approved unanimously.
The following is the text of the new bylaw:
Sec. 11.08. The Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies:
The Dean and the Executive Board
The executive function of the graduate school shall be performed by a dean
assisted by an executive board. The executive board shall consist of the dean and
fourteen members to be appointed by the Board upon recommendation by the
president. One of the fourteen shall be from the University of Michigan-Flint and
a second shall be from the University of Michigan-Dearborn. The length of service
for the Flint and Dearborn representatives shall be determined by the campus
provost. The other appointed members shall hold office for terms of three years
each, so adjusted that four vacancies shall occur each year. The dean shall be chair
of the board.
The executive board is empowered to establish divisional boards in the interests
of the subject matter divisions in particular and the graduate school in general.
Henry Russel Awards for 1997
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved the selection of Kamal Sarabandi, associate
professor of electrical engineering and computer science, and Carla M.
Sinopoli, associate professor of anthropology and associate curator of Asian
archaeology, Museum of Anthropology, to receive Henry Russel Awards for
1997.
Proposed Benefits Reductions at University of Michigan Hospitals
Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents that a
proposal for benefits reductions was discussed at the most recent meeting of
the Hospitals Executive Board. He noted that no action had been taken on
this proposal, and no action would be taken prior to Regental review of such
a proposal.
Interim President Neal: Concluding Remarks
Interim President Neal observed that this was the last Regents' Meeting
in which he would be serving as interim president. He thanked the Regents,
executive officers, and the rest of the University community for the
opportunity to serve the University of Michigan during the transition period.
He commented on some of the memorable experiences he'd had as interim
president.
222




January Meeting, 1997


Interim President Neal observed that he had accomplished many of the
goals he had established at the beginning of the transition period. These
include assuring a sense of campus continuity; preserving recent advances
that had been made on campus; capturing new opportunities that may be
presented; acting on key, time-sensitive matters; laying the groundwork for
the new administration; and assisting the Regents with the installation of
the new president.
He said that he and his wife, Jeannie, had a deep passion for the
University of Michigan, and it had been an honor to have been able to serve
his alma mater during the delicate period of transition.
He noted that there is no reason the University of Michigan should not
be the first major research university in the United States to guarantee
research opportunities to all of its students, nor for it not to become the
leader in determining the appropriate structure for academic medical
centers.
Among the challenges that he identified as facing the University are the
identification of shared values and where the University should be going in
the next decade; increasing collegiality; medical center restructuring; paying
attention to the vulnerabilities of the research enterprise; paying attention to
the level of student support; careful implementation of the new value
centered management budgeting system; implementation of the new MIS
("Peoplesoft") system; continuing to look for realistic cost savings within the
university; and redoubling efforts to encourage ethical behavior in the
academy.
Interim President Neal then showed a humorous videotape capturing
his experiences as president.
Following presentation of the videotape, Regent McGowan called
Interim President Neal and his wife, Jeannie, to the table and read the
following resolution:
Resolution in Honor of Homer A. Neal
The Regents of the University of Michigan express their deepest
appreciation to Homer A. Neal as he completes his seven-month term
as interim president on January 31, 1997, and turns his attention to
his first love-high energy physics research.
A recipient of both master's and doctoral degrees in physics from
Michigan, Dr. Neal has served the University with distinction as
professor of physics since 1987, chair of the Department of Physics
from 1987-93, vice president for research since 1993 and, most recently,
as interim president. He has brought to each role his considerable
intellect, integrity, personal warmth, and unfailing good humor.
During his service as interim president, Dr. Neal has been
committed to maintaining Michigan's momentum and ensuring that
the University remains a national leader in higher education. He
has vigorously pursued a number of initiatives, among them an effort


223




January Meeting, 1997


to redefine the nation's government-university research partnership.
On campus, he has presided over a reorganization of the Medical
Center and launched an effort to expand dramatically opportunities
for undergraduate students to work with faculty on research and
other creative endeavors. He has also reaffirmed the University's
commitment to diversity and strengthened communications between
the administration and the University's broad array of internal and
external constituents.
Dr. Neal's wife, Donna Jean, has been equally committed to
Michigan, fostering collegiality and a sense of community by hosting
scores of ceremonial and social events at the President's House and
Inglis House. She also has served on the Faculty Women's Club board
and been active in the community as a member of the Washtenaw
County Advisory Board of the United Negro College Fund, the Ann
Arbor chapter of Links, Inc., and the Ann Arbor Women's City Club.
With admiration and deep gratitude for their numerous
contributions to the University, and particularly for the insights and
solid leadership they have provided during the period between the
administrations of Michigan's eleventh and twelfth presidents, the
Regents extend their congratulations and best wishes to Homer and
Donna Jean Neal.
There followed a round of applause.
Regent McFee told Interim President Neal that
You have performed the interim function with extraordinary
sensitivity and capability. Not knowing how long the interim would
be, you came forth with enthusiasm and energy, held us all together
and gave us a sense of steady as she goes through the several
months of the search for a permanent president. Throughout these
months, you have served this University with creativity and grace,
ably assisted by Jeannie, and have been exceptionally helpful in
communicating with Lee Bollinger to provide continuity and
ongoing initiatives and yet maintain an open door through which
Lee can pass as he begins his administration. I add my individual
thanks to our collective thanks.
Regent Newman expressed thanks to Interim President Neal and
Jeannie Neal for taking over during a difficult time and doing an
extraordinary job.
Regent Horning added that "the job was done with a great deal of grace
and dignity, and we appreciate it."
Regent Power observed that
This University couldn't have been better served by you and
Jeannie with the grace and dignity and good humor and warmth
and integrity which you brought to the delicate matters of continuity
and of maintaining momentum, and the delicate matters of
facilitating the transition to a new administration, and especially
224




January Meeting, 1997


for the special quality that both of you have of very carefully
disguised passionate loyalty and goodwill for this university.
Regent Deitch recounted a scene in the Old Testament between
Abraham and his son, Isaac, in which God asked Abraham to make a great
sacrifice, to which Abraham replied, "Here I am." He said there is always a
time when great people step up in the service of great institutions. "You and
Jeannie have done that and we are very grateful to you."
Interim President Neal thanked everyone for their comments. There
followed a ten minute break, after which the meeting reconvene to hear
Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics
indicated: Elaine Simms, staff member, speaking on behalf of the UM
Commission for Women about the benefit redesign proposal at University of
Michigan Hospitals; Ilona Cohen, student and president of the campus
chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, on the practice of giving
invocations and benedictions at campus ceremonies; and Randall Juip,
student president of the UM Residence Halls Association, on the proposed
consolidated dining center for the Hill area residence halls.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30 p.m.
The next meeting is scheduled for February 20-21, 1997. Regents expenses
during the month of December 1996 totaled $4,192.00.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


225




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 20, 1997
The Regents convened at 2:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice
President Matthews, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford,
and Kinnear, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and
Renick, and Secretary Palmer. Regent Deitch joined the meeting at 4:05 p.m.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and noted that Regent
Power had an item of business to bring forward. Regent Power read the
following statement:
At their meeting on October 1, 1996, the Regents stated that they
had forwarded the various employment agreements executed between
former President Duderstadt and various executive officers to independent counsel "for review of their circumstances." The Regents have
been informed by counsel that these agreements are legally binding
undertakings by the University of Michigan. The Regents intend to
respect this legal opinion.
Two executive officers, Dr. Harrison and Dr. Kinnear, have
informed the Regents they intend not to exercise the provisions having
to do with administrative leave that were contained in the employment
agreements executed between them and Dr. Duderstadt. Dr. Womack
has announced that his retirement furlough from the University will
begin on March 1, 1997, ending with his retirement from the University
on February 28, 1998. The Regents look forward to working with
President Bollinger to develop a modern and explicit compensation
policy for executive officers.
Regent McGowan observed that she had not had an opportunity to
formally join in the statement, which appeared to have been made on behalf
of the full Board. Regent Power responded that he had not meant to suggest
that any individual Regents were either associated with the statement or not
associated with it.
Regent McFee associated herself with Regent Power's statement and
observed that this year marks the beginning of the seventh year of her
eight-year term as Regent. She noted that during this time many University
officials and Board colleagues have come and gone. She recognized the
people with whom she has served and with whom she anticipates continuing
to serve, especially her colleagues on the Board and the current executive
officers with whom she has worked most closely. She recognized Vice
President Hartford, Chancellors Renick and Nelms, Secretary Palmer, Vice
President Harrison, Vice President Kinnear, Provost Machen, and Vice


227




February Meeting, 1997


President Neidhardt, thanking them all for continuing to serve the
University. She also welcomed President Bollinger.
Regent Power said that he appreciated Regent McFee's recognition that
during a difficult and complicated time of transition, the University had
continued to move forward thanks in great part to the executive officers and
others, and thanks also to Interim President Homer Neal, who had
"managed his responsibilities with grace and dignity."
General Remarks: President Bollinger
President Bollinger noted that he would be addressing two issues:
executive compensation and Medical Center issues.
Executive   Compensation.      President Bollinger distributed the
following statement regarding executive officer compensation and noted that
he would be requesting Regental endorsement of the statement:
I set forth below the general principles I intend to follow in
making contracts with executive officers. These principles may perhaps
seem stringent, but I can assure you they are perfectly normal in the
academic world. I present these to you to seek your endorsement.
The University of Michigan is prepared to compensate executive
officers at the general market rate. To the greatest extent possible, all
compensation should be in the form of salary and benefits. The
administration must be alert to public misunderstandings arising
from non-salary forms of compensation. Normally, executive officers
should serve at the pleasure of the president, with terms designating
times for review of performance. With respect to paid leaves, there is a
marked difference between faculty and non-faculty administrators.
Non-faculty administrators are not entitled to receive such leaves.
They are, however, entitled to notice of termination (generally up to six
months), provided they are not being terminated for cause. For faculty
administrators the situation is more complex. Upon assuming an
administrative office, faculty administrators should retain whatever
sabbatical rights they may have accrued. In order for faculty administrators to return successfully to teaching and research at the
conclusion of their administrative service, it may also be desirable to
provide a sabbatical leave for that purpose. Under no circumstances,
however, should the amount of paid sabbatical leave, including both
accrued sabbatical time and leave added during administrative
service, exceed one year. With respect to paid leaves, it is important to
remember at all times that these are extended solely for traditional
University purposes, namely to allow time for development and
completion of research and preparation for teaching.
When a non-faculty administrator is reassigned within the
University, he or she should be compensated at the market rate for that
position. If the new salary is significantly less, the administration
may gradually adjust the salary downward for up to a period of three
years. With respect to faculty administrators returning to their
academic positions, they should be compensated at the level they would
228




February Meeting, 1997


be at if they had not entered administrative service. Here, too, when
the new faculty salary is significantly less, the administration may
gradually adjust the salary downwards for up to a period of three
years.
Finally, there are two policies that, while self-evident, probably
require restatement: annual raises should be awarded only for
meritorious performance; and I will discuss with the Regents all
contracts and annual salary increases before they are executed.
President Bollinger observed that this policy follows the basic principle
that in order to hire the best people, the University must be prepared to
compensate them accordingly. To the greatest extent possible, compensation
should be made in terms of salary, as opposed to other forms of
compensation. He noted that almost always, he will want an executive
officer to serve at the pleasure of the president, as is the case at many other
institutions. He pointed out that leaves are difficult because it is too easy
outside the academic world to see sabbaticals as paid time off, and this is not the
case. To have a general paid leave policy causes confusion; therefore a
distinction is made in the policy between faculty and non-faculty administrators,
and the latter are not entitled to paid leaves.
Faculty members who become administrators will not lose accrued
sabbatical time, and they also may need to have additional sabbatical time
extended to them when they leave the administration. The maximum
amount of sabbatical time for such a faculty member, however, should be one
year. Following their administrative service, faculty members would return
to the faculty compensation scale at which they would have been had they
remained fully productive faculty members, with a three-year period being
allowed to adjust the scale downward if that were indicated. The same would
apply for non-faculty administrators who are reassigned within the University.
In response to a question from Regent McGowan on whether employment
agreements would be made public, President Bollinger noted that he had not
consulted with legal counsel on this issue. However, his intent would be to
make the specifics of agreements with executive officers available to the
public on the assumption that they legally would be subject to FOIA; that is,
to be forthcoming in making them publicly available. He emphasized,
however, that because he had not consulted with counsel on this question, he
was hesitant to commit the University at this point to such disclosure.
Regent McGowan stated that her own preference would be to be as
forthcoming as possible. President Bollinger concurred.
Regent McFee raised the issue as to whether the compensation policy
should be in the form of a Regental policy or whether it should be
incorporated into the Regents' Bylaws. President Bollinger expressed the
view that it would be better kept at the level of a policy rather than as part
of the bylaws.
Regent Newman expressed her complete support for the compensation
policy. She noted that the current bylaws grant the president the authority


229




February Meeting, 1997


to establish such a policy, and that her preference would be to retain the
policy as a policy, rather than as a part of the bylaws.
Regent Horning also expressed support for the policy as having clearly
defined the notions of furloughs, sabbaticals, and leaves and their use in a
public university.
Regent Power clarified that according to this policy, the phrase "administrative leave" has no place. President Bollinger agreed, noting that leaves can
only be given for the purposes of research and teaching, as is the case with
sabbatical leaves. He also pointed out that this practice has a long history at
the University of Michigan.
Regent Power moved endorsement of the executive officer compensation
policy, as set forth by President Bollinger. Regent Horning seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Medical Center Academic Plan. President
Bollinger reported that he has met with a number of groups and individuals
associated with the Medical Center and has also talked with individuals
outside the University about medical issues. One major issue involves whether
the University should continue to work on developing a marketing strategy for
the Medical Center. He believes that this work should continue while the
search for the executive vice president for medical affairs (EVPMA) is
underway. He has emphasized to individuals within the Medical Center that
they should be making judgments about academic quality and trying to
retain and recruit good faculty members. To that end, a $3 million fund has
been set aside to be used for developing an academic plan to retain and
recruit the best faculty, which he believes is extremely important from an
academic perspective.
Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs (EVPMA). President
Bollinger observed that the major question regarding the EVPMA is the
relationship of this position to the chief financial officer (CFO) and to the
provost. He stated that the EVPMA will have power over the business
operations and the academic side of the medical center, giving the person
"enormous authority and responsibility from both parts of the institution."
Regarding the relationship with the CFO, he noted that the EVPMA will
have no responsibility for matters such as managing the Medical Center's
endowment. However, the person will be responsible for decisions encompassing
which business courses are to be taken by the Medical Center. In these
matters, the EVPMA will report to the president, while maintaining ongoing
discussions with the CFO and keeping the CFO informed of the actions
taken. Thus, an important qualification for EVPMA candidates will be the
ability to work collegially with other administrators.
President Bollinger emphasized that the CFO would be involved in
issues brought to the president by the EVPMA regarding the Medical Center,
because of the CFO's University-wide responsibilities and expertise.
Regarding the EVPMA's relationship with the provost, President
Bollinger stated that the EVPMA will report to the provost on promotions,
tenure, appointments, and other academic matters, with the provost reporting
230




February Meeting, 1997


to the president on those matters. Responsibility for the Medical School
budget allocation would remain with the provost. On matters of academic
direction, the EVPMA would function much like a dean, retaining almost
exclusive authority. Issues regarding the duplication of administrative functions
and offices in the Medical Center and the rest of the University, i.e., the extent
that the Medical Center will become a separate institution, have not yet been
determined. The other major issue that remains undecided is whether the
EVPMA should also be dean of the Medical School.
Regent McFee requested that the Regents continue to be kept informed
and involved in discussions of these issues. President Bollinger reiterated
that this is his intention.
Report on University of Michigan Radio and Television Stations
Vice President Harrison called on Mr. Donovan Reynolds, director of
broadcasting at Michigan Radio. Mr. Reynolds reported that in the past twelve
months, Michigan Radio's income, audience, and morale have improved.
Following the change to a news and information format in July 1996, the station
has achieved a positive operating balance, has had the most successful fund
drive in its history, has greatly expanded its contributor base, and has received
a number of new, externally-funded grants. Mr. Reynolds concluded the report
by giving a slide presentation about Michigan Radio.
Following Mr. Reynold's presentation, Chancellor Nelms noted that there
will be a presentation about WFUM-TV, the public television station that
broadcasts from the Flint campus, at the May meeting on the Flint campus.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUMTV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1996; WFUM-TV and WUOM/
WVGR/WFUM-FM Statements of Support, Revenue and Expenditures
(Operating Fund) for the Years Ended June 30, 1996 and 1995
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the audited financial reports for WUOM/
WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996.
Vice President Harrison noted that the University also has two active
student broadcast stations: WCBN radio and WLLV television.
School of Nursing Faculty Practice Plan
Provost Machen introduced Dean Ada Sue Hinshaw, who noted that the
purpose of the practice plan is to create practice opportunities for the full-time
faculty of the School of Nursing, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Horning moved approval of the Nursing Faculty Practice Plan.
Regent Taylor seconded the motion. Regent Power requested that the
Regents be kept informed as various aspects of the faculty practice plan are
implemented, and Dean Hinshaw agreed. The vote was then taken, and the
motion was approved unanimously. Regents Newman and Maynard were
away from the table when the vote was taken, and Regent Deitch was absent.


231




February Meeting, 1997


Voluntary Support
Vice President Kinnear reported that the Campaign for Michigan has
exceeded $1.2 billion, and that $308 million of the $340 million goal for the
endowment has been achieved.
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of BusinessAdministration....................... $5,00
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy................ 5,000
Jay Alix and Associates, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................  5,100
Phyllis R. Allen, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of  W om en..........................................................  11,394
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
400 shares of LADD Furniture, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,975
Aluminum Company of America Headquarters Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
American Academy of Otolaryngology, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School......................................  10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division........................ 96,583
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in the Medical School......................................  36,494
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School......................................  12,500
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for employee matching  gifts............................................  77,716
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.............................. 100,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.6,122
for employee match ing gifts.............................................  6,122
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for the Solid State Electronics Laboratory in the College
of Engineering.................................................  100,000
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Hospitals and Musical Society........................... 6,966
Anonymous Donor
for the Alexander Gotz, M.D., Endowed Fund, Medical School............... 30,000
Anonymous Donor
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan-Flint............... 600,000.
Anonymous Donor
for the Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Fund in the Law School................... 25,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Sally Fleming Master Class Series Fund, School of Music............ 56,000
Anonymous Donor
518 shares of WMX Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the History of Art Department in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  17,385
Anonymous Donor
844 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 31,968
Anonymous Donor
for the Peter Aron Tows Award in Literacy in the School of Education........ 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Peter Aron Tows Award in Literacy in the School of Education........ 5,000


232




February Meeting, 1997


Applebaum Family Support Foundation of the United Jewish
Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Eugene Applebaum Professorship in the School of
Business Administration.............................................  600,000
Arbor Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  10,315
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for support in the Department of Athletics, and for the Civil
Engineering Alumni Friends Association Fellowship and other
support in the College of Engineering.................................... 8,100
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School...................................... 62,542
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,667
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for the Regional Chemotherapy Research Fund in the Medical School....... 150,000
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  m  the Medical School......................................  30,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  m atching  gifts.............................................  8,192
Austin/Canoe Island Trust, Eastsound, Washington
for the Warren R. Austin Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School........ 10,000
Daniel R. Balbach, Ann Arbor
100 shares of KeyCorp common stock
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry................. 5,125
Barnes & Noble Bookstore, Ann Arbor
for WUOM/WVGR.....................................................  5,136
Karl G. Bartscht Ann Arbor
for the Carl and Josephine Bartscht Scholarship in the College of
Engineering, and for the University Musical Society....................... 10,500
Andrew R. Bass Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Peggy Bauervic Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Peggy Bauervic Foundation Scholarship in the Department
of  A thletics..........................................................  12,500
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Nephrology Fellows Fund in the Medical School..................... 8,000
BCBSM Foundation, Detroit
for support in the Institute of Gerontology............................... 49,522
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for the Richard A. Flinn Scholarship and other support in the
College of Engineering, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center........... 24,500
Maurice S.Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
200 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Scholarship and other support in the
School of Music, and for the Alumni Association, the University Musical
Society and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 8,913
Russell S. Bishop III, Incline Village, Nevada
400 shares of First Michigan Bank Corp common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 11,675
Henry W. and Marion H. Bloch, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Marion and Henry Bloch Arts Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,000
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
116 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts..........................................................  5,862
Eleanore M. Bogan Estate
for support in  the M edical School.........................................  5,119
Jeanne L. Bond, Rockford
for the Opal & George Kress & Joanne May Kress Endowed Research
Fund  in  the M edical School............................................  15,000
Robert S. Bradley, Loveland, Ohio
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000


233




February Meeting, 1997


Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for support of the Law School and for the Frances and Hubert Brandt
Israel Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 25,250
Margaret K. Brigham, West Branch
for the Orthopaedic Education Fund in the Medical School................. 10,000
Isabelle J. Brown, Jackson
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy............... 10,000
Floydene B. Brownlee Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics, and for the Brownlee
Supplementary Award Fund and other support in the School of Education..... 540,990
Dorr H. Burns, Grand Junction, Colorado
100 shares of Coastal Corporation common stock
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,131
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Star Program
in the School of Social Work, for the Comprehensive Cancer Center
and for the University Musical Society...................................  5,000
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  5,250
Jerry Capizzi, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration.......................................    10,000
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
for minority student aid in the School of Business Administration........... 25,000
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering
and for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute...........................................    13,500
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago Illinois
for research and the Searle Scholars Program in the Medical School......... 30,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 11,400
Cole-Belin Education Foundation Des Moines, Iowa
for the David W. Belin Phi Ieta Kappa Scholarship in the Law School........ 25,000
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago
Eight shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the MHRI Frontiers of Neuroscience Fund, the Gerard Summer
Undergraduate Research Program and the Margaret Wilson Gerard
Memorial Fund in the Medical School.................................. 302,550
Coopers & Lybrand, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute....................................................  7,500
Donald J. Cumming, Fairport, New York
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
200 shares of IBM Corporation common stock
for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering...................... 32,338
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for support in the School of Dentistry.................................... 6,600
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
675 shares of PetsMart, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School
of Business Administration, and for support in School of Education.......... 13,795
Decoma International, Inc., Concord, Ontario, Canada
for the Computer and Information Science Program at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn...............................................  6,090
Donald DeFosset, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
126 shares of Allied-Signal, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 8,592
Deister Machine Company, Inc., FortWayne, Indiana
for research in the Medical School, and for the Comprehensive
Cancer  Center........................................................  5,500


234




February Meeting, 1997


Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute............................................ 7,500
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment................................... 30,000
Dickinson Wright, Moon, VanDusen & Freeman, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law School,
and for WUOM/WVGR........................................ 10,264
Charles E. Diebolt, Northville
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................  100,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship and other support in the
Center for the Education of Women, for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the Museum of Art, the
Michigan League, the Clements Library and the University Musical
Society....................................................    22,950
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund
in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Medical School and
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund and the Museum of Art........... 12,192
Dixon and Carol Doll Trust
325 shares of 3Com Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business
Administration, and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund.............. 25,675
Edward Domino, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, and for support in the School of Music.... 20,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  6,500
Jean W. Dorsett-Robinson, Isle of Palms, South Carolina
for the Jean Robinson Dorsett Scholarship in the School of Public Health...... 5,000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and Arts........................................... 20,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for the Dielectric Materials Research Fund in the College of Engineering.... 34,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for scholarships, the Dow Chemical Fund in Mechanical Engineering,
and other support in the College of Engineering........................... 9,000
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the Models of Sensory and Motor Neuropathies Fund in the School
of Public Health, and for the Catalytic Surfaces Studies Fund in the
College of Literature, Sciences, and the Arts.............................. 28,000
DowElanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration.............................................  7,500
Morris D. Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering, and for scholarships in the
Department of Athletics and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts............................................................. 14,500
David G. Dvorak, Kalamazoo
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Ophthalmic
Research Endowment in the Medical School.............................. 6,500
Richard A. Earle, Galesville, Maryland
for support of the  Law  School...........................................   5,000
Edward W. Elliott, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Management at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn............................................... 50,000
James H. Ellis, Ann Arbor
120 shares of First of America Bank Corporation common stock
for the William Martel Professorship in Radiology in the Medical School....... 7,140
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship in the College
of Literature, Science, andthe Arts...................................... 8,000
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the George J. Huebner, Jr., Memorial Scholarship in the College
of Engineering..........................................  25,000
235




February Meeting, 1997


Frederick A. Erb, Naples, Florida
33,919 shares ofvarious common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowments in the Schools
of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment....... 949,315
Ernst & Young, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute; and for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at
Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................... 8,320
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Cincinnati, Ohio
for urology research in the Medical School............................... 39,735
Tyrone C. Fahner, Chicago, Illinois
for the NEH Challenge Grant Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts.................................................  10,000
Ross Lee Finney Trust
for the Ross Lee Finney Fellowship in the School of Music................... 5,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Edward I. Fleischman Foundation, Southfield
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
University  Library.................................................  10,000
Ethel and James Flinn Foundation, Detroit
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  46,100
Eleanor andEdsel Ford Fund, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  35,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, for research
and the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering, for
physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Museum of Art and the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Powerhouse at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 253,920
Ford Motor Company Scientific Research Labs, Dearborn
for the Computational Modeling Fund in the Quality Research Center,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................      110,000
Iva May Francis, Owosso
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowments in the Schools
of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment........ 10,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  18,000
Gloria Niemeyer Francke, Washington, DC
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for the Gloria Francke Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Pharmacy............................................  16,050
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. FrankelEntrepreneurship Fund in the School of
Business Administration, and for the Frankel Fellowship in Jewish
Communal Service and other support in the School of Social Work........... 32,500
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  67,000
Henry E. Fuldner, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
263 shares of Med Partners, Inc., and
51 shares of General Motors common stock
for support of the Law  School...........................................  8,297
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 23,926
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for human factors and other research in the Transportation Research
Institute...........................................................  121,800
GHS Corporation, Battle Creek
for the Shirley and Robert McFee Guitar Fund and other support
in the School of Music; and for support in the Schools of Business
Administration and Law, and the Colleges of Engineering and
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  12,500
Ginsberg 1995 Charitable Trust
for support in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., 1996 Trust
for support  of the Law  School...........................................  5,000


236




February Meeting, 1997


Linda M. Graham, Ann Arbor
for the Vascular Research Fund in the Medical School......................  6,000
Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in Fine Arts, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...........5,000
Michael W. Grebe, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for support of the  Law  School.........................................  5,000
Charles Grosberg Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
2,887 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Dr. Joseph 0. and Mrs. Norma Grosberg Endowment in
the  School of Dentistry................................................  62,338
Barry H. Gross, Ann Arbor
for the William Martel Professorship in Radiology in the Medical School....... 5,000
Kermit H. Gruberg, Oakland, California
for the Otto Graf Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  5,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,000
Linda M. Haas, Chelsea
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 8,000
Rowena P. Hafer Estate
for the Hazen A. and Rowena P. Hafer Scholarship........................ 12,000
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Library............ 5,000
John T. Hammond, Kenosha, Wisconsin
750 shares of Hasbro, Inc., common stock
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Education................. 28,828
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
for the Jerry Hanlon Endowed Football Lineman Scholarship
in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 5,000
David L. and Pamela C. Haron, Troy
for support of the Law School.......................................... 25,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 5,000
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
17 shares of Harris Family Investment Company common stock and a cash gift
for support of the Law School, and for the NEH Challenge Grant Fund
and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 9,998
Stanley G. Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois
for the Stanley G. and Dorothy K. Harris Donor Pooled Income
Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies....................................................  5,000
Georgia Campbell Haugh, Ann Arbor
for the Robert F. Haugh Prize Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for the Clements Library and the Michigan
League............................................................. 7,400
Shirley and Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration.............................................  103,750
Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering
Program  in the College of Engineering...................................  8,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School
of Business Administration; and for the Star Program in the School
of  Social W ork.......................................................  17,000
Edward L. Herremans, Belmont
for the Dave Striffler Fund in the School of Public Health................... 5,000
William R. Hewlett, Palo Alto, California
for the Albion Walter Hewlett Professorship in Internal Medicine
in  the Medical School............................................... 1,500,000
Laurence Ho, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and
for W UOM/W VGR...................................................  100,100
Hockaday Family Fund of the Greater Kansas City
Community Foundation and Affiliated Trust
for the Irvine and Ellen Hockaday Fund in the Law School.................. 6,000


237




February Meeting, 1997


Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Dejong Symposium and other support in the Medical School..........10,750
Jon R. Holt, Mound, Minnesota
for industrial engineerin support in the College of Engineering.............. 8,500
Honda Research of America, Torrance, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute..........................................................  15,000
Arne L. Hovdesven, Wilmington, North Carolina
458 shares of Fidelity Market Index Fund mutual fund
for support of the Law School....................................... 25,000
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  7,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School..................... 78,000
Curtis E. Huntington Boston, Massachusetts
359 shares of CGM Capital Development Fund mutual fund
for mathematics and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................. 12,745
James W. Hyde Estate
for the Class of 1904 Law Scholarship in the Law School.................. 643,510
Ida L. Iacobucci, St. Clair Shores
425 shares of Van Kampen Pace Find-A mutual fund
for the Ida L. Iacobucci Orthoptic Service Fund in the Kellogg
E ye  Center...........................................................  5,104
Marguerite Iskenderian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Haig P. Iskenderian Scholarship in the College of Engineering........ 35,000
It Takes A Village Charitable Account, Washington, DC
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital................................... 25,000
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art...................... 5000
Janssen, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School....................... 17,310
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School............. 150,103
Jewish United Fund of Metropolitan Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
for the Judaic Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................. 5,000
JFK Company, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joseph F. Kosick Endowed Merit Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration.................................... 146,000
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo
for research in the Medical School..................................... 50,000
Garrett B. Johnson, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School..............10000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  5,900
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  77,167
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................  10,323
Ray W. Judson, Pasadena, California
for the Ray W. and Mary Lou Judson Scholarship in the College of
Engineerin.........................................................  20,000
S. Adele Judson Estate
for the Lyman S. V. Judson Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies............................................  61,592
Jorge O. Just, Birmingham
95 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for the John Alexander Distinguished Professorship, Medical School.......... 5,017
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....................................            6,000
Ira R. Katz, La Jolla, California
for the Joan and Ira Katz Funds in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  Arts........................................................  200 000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint and for employee
m atching  gifts.....................................................  195,979


238




February Meeting, 1997


Richard Kerr, Battle Creek
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
KeyCorp, Toledo, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program and other
support in the School of Business Administration......................... 16,000
Frances Vyn Killins, Arcadia, California
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 5,000
Robert P. and Jean W. Kirby Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............. 5,000
K. M. D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society......................................  10,000
Patsy M. Knoop, Dearborn Heights
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund................................ 10,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Foundation Professorship of Korean Studies in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................  300,000
C. G. Korneffel, Grosse Ile
for the Student Research Program in the Medical School................... 15,000
Samuel Krimm
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and for the Museum of Art......... 5,100
Samuel Krimm Trust
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund................................. 5,000
Kent H. Landsberg Foundation, Temecula, California
for the Auditory Research Fund in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.... 10,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health................................ 8,910
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
for support of the Law School, and for the Humanities Institute
and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 8,500
Michael J. Levitt, Englewood, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the
Rollicking Crew  Endowed Scholarship...................................  10,660
Kirk J. Lewis Boise, Idaho
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 7,500
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the
M edical School.......................................            25,000
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Jeffrey Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Jeffrey and Susan Liss Scholarship in the Law School, and
for the Gertrude Nadich Liss Travel Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Christine Litwin-Sanguinetti, Los Altos, California
900 shares of Viewlogic Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Helfman Literary Student Aid Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,013
Anna Suk-Fong Lok, Ann Arbor
for the Liver Research Fund in the Medical School......................... 5,000
Thomas L. Lott, Detroit
300 shares of Thermal Electron Corporation common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,894
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the FMC/TMI Fellowship and the Corporate Environmental
Management Program in the School of Business Administration............. 10,000
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy................ 5,000
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,000
Lupus Foundations of America, Inc., Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School......................................  7,500
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000


239




February Meeting, 1997


Karl E. Lutz, Chicago, Illinois
1,177 shares of American Pad and Paper Company common stock
for support of the Law School...........................             25,158
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education.............................. 38,000
John W. Madigan, Chicago, Illinois
80 shares of Tribune Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.............. 6,155
Magneti Marelli UK, Ltd., Cannock, England
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute... 15,000
Mandel-Beyer-Weinberg Family Philanthropic Fund Moreland Hills, Ohio
for the Weinberg Family Scholarship i the Coilege of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts............................................  15,000
Mary Anne Mangelsen, Chelsea
74 shares of Telefonica De Espana SP ADR common stock
for support in the Medical School, and for WUOM/WVGR................... 5,074
Oliver F. Manzini, Laurium
for support in the School of Dentistry...................................  10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................   17,500
Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Turner Geriatrics Center and the Comprehensive Cancer Center  500,000
Avis B. Markstrom Trust
for student aid in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......... 5,000
George G. Martin Revocable Trust
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 6,000
Marilyn M. Mason, Ann Arbor
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in Organ in the School of Music.......... 10,000
Kenneth P. Mathews, La Jolla, California
185 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the Kenneth and Winona Mathews Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School.............................. 9,944
George K. Matsuda, Seattle Washington
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 5,000
James A. McDivitt, Rapid City
for the James A. and Judith McDivitt Scholarship in the College of
Engineering.......................................                   7,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for psychology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 58,149
Robert E. McFarland, Farmington Hills
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Julian G. Mcintosh Estate
two U.S. Treasury Bills and a cash gift
for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Memorial Fund in the School of Music... 1,053,530
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
6,450 shares of Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc., common stock
for the Jazz Studies Endowment in the School of Music................... 251,147
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,400 shares of Pharmacia & Upjohn, Inc., common stock
for the Edwin and Mary Meader Endowed Scholarship in Jazz Studies
and the Jazz Studies Endowment in the School of Music, and for the
Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................. 262,600
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Fred Meijer Fellowship in Creative Writing, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for WUOM/WVGR................... 53,563
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the
Medical School, and for the Communicative Disorders Clinic................ 10,500
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for the University Musical Society......................................  20,000
Lila Miller Estate
for the Minor J. and Mary Lou Coon Graduate Fellowship in the
M edical School........................................................  5,000
Charles and Florence Milan Foundation, West Bloomfield
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
University  Library....................................................  25,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
240




February Meeting, 1997


Mol-Son, Inc., Mattawan
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,100
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for the  University  Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Richard G. Morgan, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
John C. Morley Cleveland, Ohio
for the John C. and Sally S. Morley Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration..................................  100,000
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood Colorado
for research in the Medical School...................................... 18,750
Morris-Sweetland Living Trust
for the Sweetland Library Support Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,000
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship.......................... 5,900
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art, for WUOM/WVGR and for the Clements
Library, in memory of Thomas N. Cross.................................. 8,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the Technical Resource Center, the Center for University
Outreach, and the Expert-In-Residence Program at the University
of Michigan-Flint and for employee matching gifts....................... 410,900
Lydia Baird Muncy Estate
for the Bentley Historical Library......................................  120,000
E. Jeanette Myers Estate
for support of the Alumni Association................................... 90,000
National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit
for support in the School of Management, University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 12,500
National Foundation for Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.......................................   6,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................... 6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Gregor N. Neff, Dobbs Ferry, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship in the Law School...................... 25,000
Linden Nelson, Beverly Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School
of Business Administration; and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....... 15,000
Henry H. Newlin, Ann Arbor
for the Henry and Nancy Newlin Women's Basketball Scholarship and
other support in the Department of Athletics........................ 21,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School................. 25,000
William R. Nicholas, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law  School.......................................  5,000
Robert S. Nickoloff, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence in the School of Dentistry................... 100,000
Nokomis Foundation Grand Rapids
for support in the Center for the Education of Women..................... 15,000
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Northern Illinois Gas, Aurora, Illinois
for the Bruce P. Bickner Endowed Scholarship in the Law School............. 5,000
Ward O'Boyle, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Lillian R. O'Boyle...... 10,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for support of the Law School, and for chemistry support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  11,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
491 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for then Ronald L. and Jane Olson Fund in the Law School................. 24,673


241




February Meeting, 1997


Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School...................................... 12,000
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals, Inc., Columbia, Missouri
or research in the Medical School...................................... 18,750
Orthopedic Trauma Association, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  21,500
Thomas W. Ostrander, New York, New York
for endowment support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 10,000
Louis and Helen Padnos Foundation, Holland
for the Stuart and Barbara Padnos Endowed Research Fund in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for the Study Abroad Program
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 250,150
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 89,442
Ann V. Parfet, Richland
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of Women........................................                     5,000
Donald R. Parfet, Richland
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 5,000
Park Foundation, Inc., Ithaca, New York
for the Park Foundation Fund for Telecommunications and Technology
in the Law  School...................................................  150,000
Randolph C. Paschke, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business
Adm inistration.......................................................  13,000
Brian P. Patchen, Miami, Florida
for the Brian P. Patchen Fund and other support in the Law School and
for support in the School of Music...................................... 16,100
Donna S. Pell, Sun City, Arizona
for support in the College of Engineering, in memory of Elwin M. Pell........ 5,000
Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
1,000 shares of Global Marine common stock
for the Mr. and Mrs. Harold Peplau Fund............................... 20,688
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research...... 100,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts........... 8,100
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School...................................... 22,500
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program and
the Residential College Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts...............................................  10,100
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the History Department in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts........................................................ 12,000
Laurence J. Pons, Scottsdale, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School, and for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 24,000
Mrs. Philip H. Power, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of Women.......................................................... 10,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the D'Arms Award in the Humanities in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies............................................  10,000
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Victor L. Bernard-Price Waterhouse LLP Collegiate
Professorship in the School of Business Administration.................... 20,000
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Mental HealthResearch Institute in the Medical School............ 152,260
QAD, Inc., Mount Laurel, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................       7,500
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,833
242




February Meeting, 1997


Joseph S. Ransmeier, Concord, Ohio
923 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Joseph S. Ransmeier Donor Pooled Income Fund and
other support for the ultimate benefit of the Law School................... 26,033
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.........................................................  15,000
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Services for Students with Disabilities Fund........................ 6,400
Wallace D. Riley, Grosse Pointe Farms
575 shares of TCF Financial common stock
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  25,336
Armin S. Roe Lansing
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
A. RaymondRoth, Mackinaw City
for the Founding Faculty Music Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Flint........................................................  5,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Kettering, Ohio
3,396 shares of PPG Industries and
1,460 shares of Harris Corporation common stock
for the Dr. Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering........ 292,340
Marion M. Rupp Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 27,825
Alma Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 40,000
Rena Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 20,000
R. B. Rutherford, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Dentistry.................................... 5,000
Marion Ryan, Flint
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint, and for WFUM/TV...................................... 25,500
Theodore Sachs, Detroit
73 shares of Wells Fargo common stock
for endowment support in the Law School............................... 20,048
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...................... 55,000
Sage Foundation, Brighton
for support of the Law  School..........................................  25,000
Sandoz Research Institute, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Ashish D. Sarkar, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering, the School of Nursing,
and the Horace H. Racklham School of Graduate Studies and for
the Martin Luther King Scholarship.....................................  8,000
Rosemary Sarri, Ann Arbor
144 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Romilos H. Sarri Scholarship in the College of Engneering,
and for the Rosemary Sarri Scholarship in the School of Social Work.......... 6,858
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......... 219,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for the Schering-Plough Educational Fund in the College of Pharmacy...... 100,000
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School................................   16,000
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation
for research in the Institute of Gerontology............................... 5,000
Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Waco, Texas
180 shares of Burlington Northern Sante Fe common stock
for the Adrian W. Schmidhauser Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the School of Business Administration.................. 15,908
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R. C. Schneider Neurosurgical Fund in the Medical School, and
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,250
243




February Meeting, 1997


Russell L. Schneider, Lansing
3,140 shares of ML Global Allocation and
717 shares of ML Capital Fund mutual funds
for the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Russell L. and Frances
B. Schneider Student Merit Award Fund................................. 66,816
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts....................                                   8,524
Robert G. and Susan E. Schuur Trust.8
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
Seagate, Scotts Valley, California
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration............................................  15,000
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............. 5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering in the College of
E ngineering.........................................................  32,851
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
14,800 shares of various common stock and a cash gift
for the Women's Softball Locker Room Fund and for Donald R.
Shepherd Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Department of Athletic................................... 447,075
Harry R. Shick, Cincinnati, Ohio
1,716 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Harry A. Shick, Jr., Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics and the
College  of Engineering.............................................  104,902
Paul E. Siegel Estate
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................................  50,000
Bruce H. Simpson Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn....................................................  5,000
Singh Associates, West Bloomfield
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................................  20,000
William M. Skubik, Plymouth
for the Chester Scholarship.................................. 5,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Center for the Education of Women................... 130,000
Mrs. Charles H. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of W om en..........................................................  36,842
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D., Trust
for the University Musical Society......................................  12,500
Marguerite C. Smiley, Moscow, Idaho
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Cece Smith, Dallas, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration; and for the
Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, in memory of Linn Smih............................ 5,000
David H. Smith, Irvine, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 275,000
Rollin M. Smith Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 6,003
Richard C. Sneed, Cleveland, Ohio
200 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,038
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education................................. 1,900
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for support of the Law  School...........................................  7,500
Norman M. Spindelman, Rochester, New York
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Robert J. Spry, Grand Rapids
for the Regent's Alumni Supplementary Scholarship........................ 7,000
244




February Meeting, 1997


Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public Health........... 10,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Ft. Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 30,000
John F. Stone Trust
for support in  the  Medical School........................................  8,825
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
16,200 shares of Amerindo Technology Growth Fund mutual fund
for the John W. Sweetland Professorship in International Economics
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 499,488
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Teaching Excellence Fund and other support in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  7,500
Ganson P. Taggart, Winchester, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,000
Tappi Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for chemical engineering research in the College of Engineering............. 40,000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowments in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.......................... 364,650
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.............. 50,000
Joal A. Teresko Estate
for endowment support in the School of Business Administration............ 10,659
Thomas Built Buses, Inc., High Point, North Carolina
for wheelchair restraints research in the Transportation Research
Institute..........................................................  5,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust
for the Library Acquisition Endowment in the Frances Willson
Thompson Library, the University of Michigan-Flint...................... 71,103
Charles V. Thornton III Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......................... 50,000
Clayton M. Timmons, Palm City, Florida
for the Allen L. Shields Memorial Fellowship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 15,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts............................................................  600,000
Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Tennis Fund in the Department of
Athletics, and for Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic
Studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 250,000
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 5,000
Tory, Tory, Deslauriers and Binnington, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 10,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and for employee
m atching   gifts......................................................  207,000
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Domestic MBA Corps Fund in the School of Business
Administration..................................................... 20,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational
Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School................................... 26,250
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  7,765


245




February Meeting, 1997


United Way of Orange County, Orange, California
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship in the School of Business
Adm inistration........................................................   5,000
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for support in the Mvedica  School............................... 29,100
UroCor, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund
in  the M edical School.................................................  22,000
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health...............................  13,500
Ella McCollum Vahlteich Estate
for the Ella McCollum Vahlteich Research Fund in the Medical
School, and for the Ella and Hans Vahlteich Research Fund in
the College of Pharmacy................................... 720,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the George F. and Nancy P. Valassis Professorship in the
M edical School......................................................  127,400
Richard E. Van House, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Engineering; and for the Comprehensive Cancer
Center and the University Musical Society..............................  5,100
Vector Securities International Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School
of Business Administration........................................  5,000
Bob Vizas Berkeley, California
for the Vizas Wamily Dean's Merit Scholarship and other support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the
Martin  Luther King Scholarship........................................  26,500
Carl H. von Ende, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho for the Jerry Hanlon Endowed Football
Lineman Scholarship, the Lee Paddock Scholarship and other
support in the Department of Athletics for support in the Division
of Kinesiology, and for the William S. Smith Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  12,000
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
and for support in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
Philip L. Wagner Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 6,386
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
2,065 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for the Jean and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in the
School of Education, and for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in
the  College  of Pharmacy..............................................  109,832
James R. Wall Findlay, Ohio
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
John D. Warner, Seattle, Washington
50 shares of Boeing Company common stock
for the John D. Warner Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering..... 5,303
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  11,807
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics, for student
aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women,
for support in the School of Music and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the University Musical Society....................... 48,403
William L. Wayman Revocable Trust
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund
in  the  M edical School..................................................  5,000
Jerome A. Weinberger, Cleveland, Ohio
50,000 par U. S. Treasury Notes
for the Jerome A. and Joy W. Weinberger Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Joy Whitman
Weinberger Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music..................  104,453
David Westin,New York, New York
for the David Westin Endowment in the Medical School, and for
philosophy support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 20,250


246




February Meeting, 1997


William and Janis Wetsman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sepphoris Exhibition Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Schools of
Business Administration, Music and Natural Resources and
Environment for the Museum of Art, the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens, and the University Musical Society; and for the
Bentley Historical and Clements Libraries................................ 7,200
Robert J. White, Los Angeles California
for support of the Law School......................................... 5,000
Ted and Rita Williams Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Theodore and Rita Williams Scholarship in the College of
E ngineering.........................................................  50,000
Margaret H. Willoughby Trust
for support in the School of Information, and for the Alumni Association....... 15,000
Walter E. Wilson Trust
for support in the College of Engineering....                     200,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Public Policy............... 18,000
J. Reimer Wolter, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Endowed Professorship in the Medical School........ 5,000
Irma S. Wotring, Willoughby, Ohio
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering,
in memory of John L. Wotring........................................... 5,000
Larry J. Wright, Kingwood, Texas
for support in the Department of Athletics................................  5,000
E. Lisk Wyckoff, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  15,000
Samuel E. Wyly, Dallas, Texas
for the Sam Wyly Fund in the School of Business Administration.......... 2,000,000
Xerox Corporation, Webster, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College
of Engineering...................................................... 5,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Curt Reimann Quality Leadership Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration....................................  5,000
Yamanouchi, U.S.A., Inc., White Plains, New York
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund
in  the  M edical School.................................................  10,000
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and School of Business
Administration, for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research
Fund in the Medical School; for the Avery and Jule Hopwood Prize
Fund and the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the University
M usical Society......................................................  42,500
Esther M. York Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 18,080
Samuel ZelI, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Professorship of Engineering in the College
of Engineering......................................................  600,000
Roy H. Zieler Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,500
W. Tom ZurSchmiede, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................  5,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Richard H. Axsom, Grosse Pointe
one half the value of an art work entitled, "Earth Projects" by Robert Morris and 10
color lithographs for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Baccarat Crystal, Meurthe et Moselle, France
a Baccarat paperweight and "Architecture" vase for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
247




February Meeting, 1997


William B. Becker, Huntington Woods
four large-format photographs by Artiz Hovespian for the Clements Library
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
a Hewlett Packard multimedia computer system with a printer and a Canon camera for
the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Carolyn Brezzell, Flushing
a Harden arm chair and ottoman for the University of Michigan-Flint Adult Resource
and Women's Center Library
Robbins Burling, Ann Arbor
130 journals, 91 books and 26 newsletters and reports for the Department of Anthropology
John C. Dann, Ann Arbor
a collection of 116 stereographic, photographic images, dated 1865-1900 illustrating
various United States locations
Patrick and Patricia Daoust, Dearborn
artwork entitled, "Les Sardinieres" by Manuel Robbe for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Salar Dehbozorgi, San Diego, California
safety and personnel protection devices used for hazardous and solid waste operations
and training, and assorted compressed gas and vacuum equipment for the Department
of Civil Engineering
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
various letters and books and architectural plans provided by MSKTD & Associates,
Inc., for the projected library building addition for the Clements Library
Paul F. Ganem, Dearborn
a spinning wheel with a form and an Antique Dubrey Marine Engine for the Henry
Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Roderick F. Ganiard, Jr., Ann Arbor
two office chairs for the Museum of Art
Marguerite Babaian Harms, Ann Arbor
the papers of George W. and Marguerite Harms along with photographs, postcards and
a photo album for the Clements Library
RaburnL. Holland, Pinckney
a Laser sailboat for the Alumni Association
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro Oregon
six PCI Pentium Pro desktop computer systems for the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
exception Brand Systems office furniture with Steelcase modular walls for the School of
Business Administration
Meloon Foundries, Inc., Syracuse, New York
manganese bronze medallions for the Department of Thoracic Surgery
David M. Morse, Chelsea
a mini console with related equipment for the Information Technology Division
Dale Namio, Grosse Pointe
one half the value of an art work entitled, "Earth Projects" by Robert Morris and 10
color lithographs for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
PlanTech, Inc., Farmington Hills
a portion of the value of a five-user Lan version of Computer-Assisted Project
Management Computer-Based Training software for the University of Michigan Flint
Ann Van Buren, Ann Arbor
a Kodak Camera for the Department of Postgraduate Medicine
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Kirsten Bentzen-Bilkvist, Ann Arbor  George Morrison, Jr., Dearborn
Johanna M. Bielecki, Dearborn       John1). Muccigrosso, Ann Arbor
Borders Books, Flint                Michael Palmer, Ann Arbor
H. D. Cameron, Ann Arbor            Lucinda Pfalzer, Flint
Bruce R. Fisher, West Bloomfield    Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor
Bruce W. Frier, Ann Arbor           Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota
John Gerych, Fenton                  Byron E. Siegel, Farmington Hills
Alvin H. Gross, Tucson, Arizona      Touch of Light Studio & Gallerie, Ferndale
Edwin Hershorn, Clio                 Susan B. Ulirich, Ann Arbor
Leslie Kish, Ann Arbor              Valley Gear & Machine, Inc., Bad Axe
Conrad P. Kottak, Ann Arbor         Ben VanDer Pluijm, Ann Arbor
Pat Lavergne, Grass Lake            Lisa B. Weiss, Ann Arbor
Carl K. Mahakian, Palm Springs, California Young & Welshans Books, Flint
Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
248




February Meeting, 1997


There followed a ten minute break, beginning at 3:55 p.m. Regent
Deitch arrived at 4:05 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated:  Elaine Simms, staff member and co-chair of the UM
Commission for Women, on the proposed paid time off plan for the
University Health System; Dorma Burnside, student, on the high cost of
tuition; Chetly Zarko, citizen, personal views on University issues; and Derek
Faust, student and general manager of WCBN radio, on the campus broadcasting network.
The meeting resumed following Public Comments.
Leave of Absence for Professor John D'Arms
Provost Machen observed that there is a Regents Communication
requesting a two-year leave of absence for John H. D'Arms, Gerald F. Else
Professor of Classical Studies and History. The purpose of the leave is to
allow him to serve as president of the American Council of Learned Societies,
which he described as "the preeminent private humanitarian organization in
the United States." Provost Machen said it is an honor for both Professor
D'Arms and the University of Michigan for him to have been selected for this
position.
Regent Power moved approval of a two-year leave of absence for
Professor John H. D'Arms, effective September 1, 1997. Regent Newman
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Health System Paid Time Off Program
President Bollinger called on Executive Vice President Matthews, who
observed that the purpose of this proposal is to bring the University of
Michigan Health System more in line with other health centers with regard
to the issue of paid time off. He called on Ms. Laurita Thomas, director of
medical campus human resources, to describe the proposal.
Ms. Thomas gave a slide presentation comparing the University's
current and proposed plans with those at other area health centers. She
noted that the objectives of the paid time off plan are increased flexibility,
increased productivity, decreased costs, and fewer unscheduled absences.
She reviewed the components of the proposed program, noting that it
would replace the current vacation, sick and season day plans with a
comprehensive Paid Time Off (PTO) program of 20-32 days per year,
depending on seniority and exempt/nonexempt status. It would allow staff to
"sell back" 5-10 unused days per year and require that the extended sick
time plan be used only for illnesses lasting longer than 10 days or those
which are chronic or recurring, including pregnancy. She noted that the
extended sick time plan is unique in the health care arena. The PTO proposal
is slightly better than other plans in the market area, and is expected to save
$1 million to $3 million, depending on how many days people sell back.


249




February Meeting, 1997


Following her presentation, Ms. Thomas responded to questions from
the Regents about the proposal. Then, there being no further questions,
Regent Deitch moved authorization for the University of Michigan Health
System to modify employee paid time off plans as recommended by the
UMHS Combined Paid Time Off Project Team. Regent Newman seconded
the motion, and several Regents complimented Ms. Thomas for having given
an excellent presentation. Regent Maynard observed that she had had
serious reservations about the program, but that the presentation had
clarified the issues and responded to her concerns. The vote was then taken,
and the motion was approved unanimously.
Executive Session Motion
Regent McFee read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on February 20, 1997, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Friday, February 21, 1997
The Regents convened at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horing, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive
Vice President Matthews, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford,
and Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick, and Secretary Palmer. Regent
Horning arrived shortly after the start of the meeting; Vice President Kinnear
was absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Vice President Hartford.
1997-98 University Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Hartford introduced William Zeller, director of housing.
Mr. Zeller and Vice President Hartford gave a slide presentation describing
the University housing operation and the distribution of the Housing
Division's $62.3 million budget. He noted that 30 percent of the budget goes
toward wages and salaries, 25 percent for dining services, 15 percent for
building services, and the remainder is distributed across a variety of
categories.  He also pointed out that the Housing Division provides
employment for more than 1,500 students.
The recommended residence hall and family housing rates call for an
average rate increase of 4 percent for residence halls and 3.9 percent for
apartments, which includes a 3 percent inflationary increase to maintain
current programs and services and an additional 1 percent increase to meet
debt service requirements for residence hall and family housing projects
250




February Meeting, 1997


previously approved by the Regents. He displayed a chart indicating that
the proposed rates are second highest among Big Ten institutions and in the
middle of those at the University's peer institutions.
Following the presentation, Vice President Hartford and Mr. Zeller
responded to questions from the Regents. Regent Newman noted that last
year she had requested that the Housing Division identify ways in which it
was conserving costs and asked for a review of what has been done in this
regard. Vice President Hartford responded that the division has been
working actively to reduce costs and noted that utilities is one area in which
good progress has been made. Mr. Zeller noted that his department has
undergone a strategic planning process which has actively addressed issues
of cost, particularly in the areas of staffing, utilities, and financing. Regent
Newman noted that privatization was another area which they had agreed to
investigate.
Vice President Hartford reported that they have looked into
privatization in the area of food service. But this proved to be unworkable
due to security issues created by the desire of private companies wanting
their services to be available to the public. She noted that Housing staff has
been cutting costs in another way by funding renovations internally without
passing these costs on to students.
Regent Deitch asked what the goals are for making the residence hall
experience more meaningful. Vice President Hartford responded that among
their goals are to reduce crowding in residence halls and to create more
opportunities for active learning. Regent Deitch raised the issue of working
with the private sector to create additional student housing opportunities.
Vice President Hartford noted that student affairs staff have begun exploring
this option as a means of expansion.
Regent Deitch suggested that because the crowding issue is acute, it
would be advisable to give more thought to the private sector approach, and
he would like to have the issue discussed with the Board at the appropriate
time. Regent Power expressed agreement with this, and said he would
welcome a session in which the Board could discuss with Housing Division
personnel long-term objectives related to such issues as quality of life,
alleviating overcrowding, costs, and privatization.
Regent McFee pointed out that the current food service operation
provides a large number of employment opportunities for students.
Regent Taylor observed that the ratio of residents to employees in the
residence halls is about five to one, and there is no way to evaluate this
figure and other information without benchmark data to compare it against.
Vice President Hartford responded that they would try to provide as much
data as possible, although it isn't readily available. Regent Taylor said that
with benchmark data, it would be possible to set goals in each area, and then
evaluate costs against these goals. The information being provided currently
provides no basis for comparison.
Vice President Hartford noted that the field of higher education is just
beginning to incorporate bench marking as a tool in financial analysis, but
251




February Meeting, 1997


that her office would provide this information as it becomes available.
Regent Taylor responded that he would need to see such data when being
asked to support fee increases in order to be able to assess whether sufficient
efforts have been made to decrease costs.
Regent Deitch moved approval of an average rate increase of 4 percent
for residence halls and 3.9 percent for apartments for the 1997-98 academic
year, according to the schedule in the Regents Communication. Regent
Power seconded the motion, and it was approved, with Regents Deitch,
Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Taylor in favor and Regents
Horning and Newman opposed.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted minutes of the January 1997
meeting and revised minutes of the September 1996 meeting. Associate Vice
President Herbert explained the reason for the proposed revision of the
September 1996 minutes, noting that the original version had been silent on
the treatment of capitalization for the Michigan Health Corporation Business
Plan, which had been explicitly stated at the meeting, and it is important
that the minutes reflect this.
Reports. Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the following
reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor
Relations.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted Projects Established and Current
Research and Sponsored Projects. Vice President Neidhardt also announced
that the University had received one of ten awards from the National Science
Foundation recognizing universities that have outstanding records of
achievement in the integration of research and undergraduate education in
science, mathematics, and engineering. The Faculty Governance Update was
also submitted.
Voluntary Support. The Report of Voluntary Support had been
submitted the previous day by Vice President Kinnear.
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Machen submitted
a number of personnel actions and personnel reports. He noted that among
the personnel actions were seven recommendations for Thurnau Professorships.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Amin, Kaushik, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance, March 1, 1997
Kaplan, George A., Ph.D., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Epidemiology, five-year term, July 1, 1997
Smith, Karen E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 1996
Sneyd, A. James R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, January 1, 1997


252




February Meeting, 1997


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective August 1, 1997
Dann, John C., reappointed Director, William L. Clements Library of American History,
five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective March 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Freedman, Jonathan E., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure
Murnane, Margaret M., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Steneck, Nicholas H., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, also appointed Professor of Ethics, without tenure, College of Engineering,
three-year term, February 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aleinikoff, T. Alexander, Professor of Law, with tenure, personal leave extended,
January 1-June 30, 1997
D'Arms, John H., Professor of History, with tenure, and Gerald F. Else Professor of Classical
Studies, personal leave, September 1, 1997-August 31, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Goldman, Rachel S., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, also
appointed the Dow Corning Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering,
three-year term, January 1, 1997
G6mez, Luis 0., Professor of Buddhist Studies, with tenure, and Charles 0. Hucker Professor
of Buddhist Studies, also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Haslanger, Sally A., Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, with tenure,
also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Hilton, James L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Ishikawa, Hiroyoshi, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, April 1-July 21, 1997
Kirkpatrick, Diane M., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Kivelson, Valerie A., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Lieberman, Victor B., Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed the Richard Hudson
Research Professor of History, four-month term, September 1, 1996
Parsons, Michael G., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
also appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term
Savage, Phillip E., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term


253




February Meeting, 1997


Somerman, Martha J., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and William K. and Mary Anne
Najjar Professor, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure,
Medical School, reappointed William K. and Anne Najjar Professor, School of Dentistry,
five-year term, January 1, 1996
Vinovskis, Maris A., Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed A.M. and H.P. Bentley
Professor of History, five-year term, September 1, 1997
Eugene Applebaum Professorship in Entrepreneurial Studies.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Eugene Applebaum Professorship in Entrepreneurial Studies in the School of Business Administration,
effective March 1, 1997.
Committee appointments.          The following committee appointments
were submitted:
University Musical Society Board of Directors
Barnes, Gail D., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, reappointed
Bryant, Barbara E., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Byrd, Letitia J., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, reappointed
Geltner, Beverley B., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Harris, Randy J., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Isaac, Stuart A., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Kulp, F. Bruce, January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, reappointed
Monts, Lester P., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Sloan, Herbert, January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Ullrich, Susan B., January 1, 1997-December 31, 1999, new appointment
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Johnson, Scott E., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning
College of Engineering
Goldman, Rachel S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
Lindner, James H., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Reinhardt, Steven K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Saitou, Kazuhiro, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Tyson, Gary S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Division of Kinesiology
Faudman, Rita B., Ph.D., Lecturer in Kinesiology
Hass, Lisa M., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, September 1, 1996
Yaquinto, Marilyn A., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brandner, Janine P., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Chen, Jieming, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Goodkind, Daniel M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Guenther, Brian D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Kaeding, Thomas A., Lecturer II in Physics
Keizer,'Arlene R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English
Kerrigan, William T., M.A., Lecturer II in History


254




February Meeting, 1997


Klopfer, Lisa, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Kreidlin, Grigorii E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures
Laskowski, Gene L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Letteri, Mark, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Lough, Thomas S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Luhtanen, Riia K., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Matthews, James M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
McGinn, Terence J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
McKee, E. Shane, M.A., Lecturer I in Political Science
Mihic, Sophia J., M.A., Lecturer II in Political Science
Niatum, Duane, M.A., Lecturer II in Native American Studies
Park, Albert F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Qiu, Shanping, B.A., Lecturer I in Chinese Language
Sacerdoti, M.A., Lecturer II in Hebrew Language
Shaheen, Safaa A., M.A., Lecturer I in Arabic Languages
Waas, Jack R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Weider, Katherine C., M.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Wilson, Leon C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies
Medical School
Ayash, Lois J., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine
Haydon, Paul W., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, October 1, 1996
Jender, Joseph G., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
December 20, 1996
Kirschner, Denise E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
February 1, 1997
Rosenthal, Jeffrey A., D.O., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, February 1, 1997
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective August 1, 1996
Medical School
Cutson, Toni M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice
(previously approved as Lecturer in Family Practice)
Housner, Jeffrey A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice
(previously approved as Lecturer in Family Practice)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Division of Kinesiology
Winkelseth, Kerry E. B., from Lecturer in Kinesiology to Instructor in Kinesiology,
January 1, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ramamoorthy, Ayyalusamy, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, December 1, 1996
Medical School
Freiberg, Andrew A., from Lecturer in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery,
January 1, 1997
Mullen, Eileen, from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 1, 1996
Spicer, Deidre K., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, also appointed Lecturer in Obstetrics and
Gynecology, July 1, 1996


255




February Meeting, 1997


Worzniak, Michael J., from Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice to Clinical Instructor I
in Family Practice, November 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Lending, Diane, from Lecturer in Management Information Systems to Assistant Professor
of Management Information Systems, December 31, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1-April 30, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Hancock, Walton M., Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College
of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Health Services Management and Policy,
School of Public Health
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barrows, Herbert C., Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History
Livingstone, Frank B., Professor Emeritus of Anthropology
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History
Medical School
Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry
Whitehouse, Frank, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology,
Medical School, and Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Graves, Helen M., Professor Emerita of Political Science
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Richardson, Frank, Professor Emeritus of French, German, and Comparative Literature
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Chaffers, James A., Professor of Architecture,with tenure, sabbatical leave
Pastalan, Leon A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough,
July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
College of Engineering
Perlin, Marc, Associate Professor of Ocean Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Rundensteiner, Elke A., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Science, personal leave
Saigal, Romesh, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Senior, Thomas B. A., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anspach, Renee, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, leave without salary
Canning, Kathleen M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, scholarly activity leave
Downs, Laura L., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus
Fader, Daniel N., Professor of English, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999


256




February Meeting, 1997


Goldberg, David, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, retirement furlough
Higman, Donald G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retirement furlough
Kane, Virginia C., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997, and retirement furlough, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
Kollman, Kenneth W., Assistant Professor of Political Science, scholarly activity leave
Konigsberg, Ira, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Film and Video Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1996
Kucich, John R., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1997
Lewis, Earl, Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, duty
off campus
Smith, Macklin, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 23-May 31, 1997
Spector, Scott D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Assistant
Professor of History, duty off campus
Stern, Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public, extended sick leave, October 9-31, 1996
Whittier-Ferguson, John A., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Zimmerman, Enid J., Lecturer III in American Studies, personal leave
Medical School
Marsh, Patricia A., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, extended sick leave,
February 12-August 15, 1997
Sandier, Howard M., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, July 1-December 31, 1996
School of Music
Bolcom, William E., Ross Lee Finney Distinguished University Professor of Music, with
tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1-December 31, 1998
School ofNursing
Russell, Beth C., Lecturer in Nursing, family medical leave, January 22-February 28, 1997
School of Public Health
Martin, James B., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Schaum, Melita C., Professor of English, with tenure, personal leave, January 1-April 30, 1997
Shah, Parth J., Assistant Professor of Economics, leave without salary, September 1, 1997 -April 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Stringer, Susan, Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, extended sick leave,
January 27-April 30, 1997
CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bergstrom, Theodore C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 1997 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1997)
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Mostafapour, M. Kazem, Associate Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996-April 30, 1997
(previously reported as September 1-December 31, 1996)
257




February Meeting, 1997


TERMINATIONS REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Darvas, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, post retirement appointment
complete
School of Dentistry
Jones, Lee W., Instructor in Dentistry, retired, February 28, 1997
School of Information
Riggs, Donald E., Professor of Information, with tenure, resigned, December 24, 1996
Division of Kinesiologs
Tait, Gail E., Instructor in Kinesiology, resigned, January 31, 1997
Law School
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law, post retirement appointment
complete
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Arnett, Carlson L., Lecturer I in German, term complete
Greenberg, Valerie E., Lecturer II in German, resigned
Sinclair, Daniel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
Strauss, Nancy T., Lecturer I in English, term complete
Medical School
Ben-Joseph, Oded, Assistant Professor of Radiological Sciences, resigned
Cole, James W., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, January 24, 1997
Doi, Kei, Assistant Professor of Radiology, resigned, January 31, 1997
Hatter, Jeffrey E., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned
Murman, Daniel L., Lecturer in Neurology, resigned, January 10, 1997
Snyder, Sandra J., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, January 7, 1997
Suarez, Therese M., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, January 31, 1997
Wagner, Ronald G., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Arribas, Emilio J., Assistant Professor of Education, appointment not renewed, May 31, 1997
UM-Flint School of Management
Carayannopoulos, Peter, Assistant Professor of Finance, resigned
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted three retirement
memoirs for adoption.
Doris D. Mahony, associate librarian in the Alfred Taubman Medical
Library, retired on October 31, 1996.
Ms. Mahony received her B.S. degree from Eastern Michigan University
in 1968 and her A.M.L.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1975.
She joined the staff of the Alfred Taubman Medical Library in 1976. Over the
next twenty years, she was recognized by users and staff alike as a medical
librarian par excellence.
Her extensive knowledge of the basic sciences enabled Ms. Mahony to be
an especially effective medical reference librarian. She understood the nature
and complexity of users' questions and often responded not only with the
information that was requested, but also with a mini-lesson on the use of the
medical literature. Ms. Mahony served as the liaison to the College of
Pharmacy and worked on the development of the pharmacy collection within


258




February Meeting, 1997


the library. Her wide-ranging skills also led to temporary assignments as
acting head of interlibrary loan and as assistant dentistry librarian. She is
known for her commitment to users, her flexibility and willingness to do
whatever tasks needed to be done, and her consistent dedication to excellence.
Drawing on her background in small libraries, Ms. Mahony served as
extramural coordinator for the Kentucky-Ohio-Michigan region of the
national medical library network, providing outreach to the region's hospital
libraries. She was certified by the Medical Library Association and was
awarded membership in the MLA Academy of Health Information
Professionals.
During her twenty years at Taubman, Ms. Mahony approached each
challenge with grace and good humor, setting a positive example for her
colleagues. Her commitment to excellent service and her broad-ranging
understanding of the library have long benefited campus scholars and
co-workers alike.
The Regents now salute this dedicated staff member by naming Doris D.
Mahony associate librarian emerita.
Alfred L. Nuttall, professor of otorhinolaryngology, retired from active
faculty status on July 31, 1996, after a most productive career as a teacher
and researcher.
Professor Nuttall received his B.S.E.E. degree from the Lowell
Technology Institute in Lowell, Massachusetts, in 1965, and his M.S.
(bioengineering), M.S.E.E., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1967, 1968, and 1971, respectively. He joined the staff of the
University of Michigan in 1964 as an instructor in otorhinolaryngology and
was promoted to assistant professor in 1976, associate professor in 1981, and
professor in 1987. Professor Nuttall has earned an international reputation
as a superb and careful scientist, having developed major new programs of
research that have received continuous support through NIH and private
foundation grants.  Since 1994, his NIH award has been designated a
"Claude Pepper Award" by the National Institutes for Deafness and Other
Communication Disorders.
Professor Nuttall's creativity, persistence, and motivation led to the
development of major new technological advances for intravital microscopy
studies of the inner ear which allowed the application of image enhancement
and computerized analysis of inner ear blood flow. His studies have identified
major neural systems that control inner ear blood flow, and have led to new
treatment regimes to improve inner ear blood flow and to prevent
vascular-based sensorineural hearing loss. Professor Nuttall also developed
the technology of intracellular recording in outer hair cells of the inner ear, as
well as new systems for analysis of the active micromechanical characteristics
of the inner ear. His work has clearly defined the range of limits of linearity
of inner ear function and has shed new light on the mechanisms underlying
active processes that are essential for the sensitivity and dynamic range of
hearing in mammalian systems. He has published more than 250 papers and
chapters based on his research, and his work has received international
recognition.
Professor Nuttall is leaving the University of Michigan to become the
director of a new research program in Oregon. His career has reflected most


259




February Meeting, 1997


favorably on the training he received and the research environment he helped
to create at the University of Michigan.
The Regents now    salute this distinguished health educator and
investigator for his dedicated service by naming Alfred L. Nuttall professor
emeritus of otorhinolaryngology.
Daniel Sinclair, professor of physics, retired from active faculty status
on May 31, 1996.
Professor Sinclair received his B.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1954 and 1957,
respectively, from the University of Glasgow in Scotland. He came to the
University of Michigan in 1957 as an instructor in physics and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1962, and professor in
1966. He served as chair of the Department of Physics from 1972-77.
Professor Sinclair has collaborated with Professor John C. van der Velde
and others on a number of outstanding experiments, including research on
muon-electron universality in K decays using the liquid xenon bubble
chamber and studies of proton-deuteron and pi-proton, pi-deuteron
interactions. Beginning in 1960, Professor Sinclair and his colleagues worked
on the design and construction of the 40-inch freon bubble chamber, which
had a productive lifetime at the Argonne. Following completion of the
Fermilab accelerator, he and his colleagues joined others working with the
hydrogen bubble chamber on the study of high energy neutrino-proton and
anti-neutrino nucleon interactions.
In the 1980s, Professor Sinclair was a founder of the IMB collaboration,
which built a detector in a salt mine near Cleveland to search for proton
decay. No proton decay was seen, which was a significant result, and the
experiment established important lower limits to the proton lifetime. In
February 1987, the IMB detector observed signals from the interaction of
neutrinos from the 1987A Supernova, and in 1989 Professor Sinclair was a
co-winner of the Rossi Prize from the American Astronomical Society. The
detection of neutrinos, one of the outstanding astrophysical observations of
recent years, was the first observation of anything other than electromagnetic
radiation from a source outside the solar system, yielding the first
experimental confirmation of the theory of supernova production and stellar
collapse.
Recently, Professor Sinclair has been collaborating with colleagues on
cosmic ray studies with the CASA-MIA Extensive Air Shower Array in Utah.
An objective of this cosmic ray program is to seek evidence for point-sources
of cosmic rays. This work is still underway.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physicist and educator by
naming Daniel Sinclair professor emeritus of physics.
Memorial Statements. Two memorial statements, including one for
Professor Betty Jean Jones, were submitted for adoption.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on January 9, 1997, of Betty Jean Jones, associate dean
for recruitment and support at the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies and professor of theatre, School of Music.
Dr. Jones was born on December 11, 1949, in Albany, Georgia. She
received her B.A. degree in English and drama from Bennett College in


260




February Meeting, 1997


Greensboro, North Carolina, earned her M.F.A. degree in drama from the
University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1978, and in 1983 was awarded
her Ph.D. degree in American theatre and drama by the University of
Wisconsin. From 1982 until August, 1994, Dr. Jones served as director of
graduate studies for theatre and coordinator of teacher education in theatre
at the University of North Carolina. In the fall of 1993, she was guest
professor in the Department of Theatre and Drama at the University of
Nevada-Las Vegas. From the fall of 1994 until the time of her death, Dr.
Jones was professor of theatre at the University of Michigan, with a focus on
teaching, directing, dramaturgy, and American theatre studies.
Dr. Jones was a much-loved faculty member. Theatre department chair
Erik Fredricksen has described her as "a remarkable, energetic, and
passionate teacher, director, and friend of students...a most first-rate, honest,
and valued colleague." An active theatre professional, Dr. Jones directed over
two dozen stage productions. In April 1996, she directed a production of The
Tooth of Crime by Sam Shepard for the UM's Department of Theatre and
Drama. A specialist in American theatre and drama with an auxiliary
emphasis in American film studies, she had numerous articles published in
major books and journals in the United States and abroad. Dr. Jones was also
an invited panelist at noteworthy symposia in Belgium, the People's Republic
of China, Germany, and Sweden. Most recently, she had been working
toward mounting a major production of a Eugene O'Neill play at the UM in
conjunction with the Jiangsu Art Theatre of China.
In her administrative role at Rackham, Dr. Jones was the first associate
dean to be charged with representing the arts and humanities. As associate
dean, Dr. Jones had particular responsibility for oversight of the graduate
school's programs for recruitment and retention of students and for student
support. She led and actively participated in the graduate school's efforts to
recruit underrepresented students, assisting staff in developing contacts with
other colleges and universities and with Rackham alumni. Her colleagues in
Rackham appreciated her many personal attributes, her theatrical expertise,
and her fine leadership. Even more critical was her sure leadership during a
period in which affirmative action was being questioned and programs
scrutinized. To this, Dr. Jones brought great moral courage, a clear sense of
long-term goals, and a refreshing combination of candor and political
sensitivity.
Dr. Jones will be sorely missed by those who had the privilege of
knowing her. She had a remarkable and wide-ranging presence in the
theatre department, the graduate school, and in the many places she touched
in the University. She compellingly merged a voice for social justice and
inclusiveness with the scholarly agenda of the University in the arts and
humanities, never forgetting the road she had traveled and reaching out to
bring others with her on the path to achievement. She was a model and a
leader for students, faculty, and staff. Her sudden and premature death is an
incalculable loss for the University community. As we mourn the loss of this
distinguished scholar and gifted artist, we unite in extending our condolences
to Dr. Jones' father, Silas; her sisters, Anita, Mildred, and Patricia; and the
rest of her family.


261




February Meeting, 1997


The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on February 2, 1997, of Kenneth Allin Luther, professor
of Persian studies.
Professor Luther was born on January 22, 1934, in Denver, Colorado.
He obtained his B.A. degree at the University of Florida in 1955, his M.A.
degree at Princeton University in 1959, and his Ph.D. degree from Princeton
University in 1964. He was a reserve officer in the military from 1955-63 in
Army intelligence and security. He began his professorial career in 1962 as
an assistant professor of Persian and Arabic at Portland State University. In
1963, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as an assistant
professor in the Department of Near Eastern Studies; he was promoted to
associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1973.  His career at the
University included service as director of the Center for Middle Eastern and
North African Studies, membership on numerous University committees, and
outstanding service as the director of admissions and fellowships in the
Department of Near Eastern Studies from 1981-91. In 1969, he was honored
with the University's Distinguished Service Award.
His international stature was evidenced by his election as president of
the American Institute of Iranian Studies. He was also a coordinator for
Peace Corps training, a contributing editor in the area of Saljuq history for
the authoritative Encyclopedia Iranica, and served on many national and
international advisory committees.  During the Iranian crisis, he was
committed to helping Iranian students who were studying in the United
States, and in so doing was instrumental in getting adverse visa regulations
rescinded. He played an important role in educating the public about the
Iranian revolution and gave many free public lectures to local and national
organizations.
Professor Luther focused his scholarship on matters and topics that
filled important gaps in the history of Iran. He cared very much about
details and accuracy in his scholarly contributions. This was reflected in his
teaching, in which his demands for linguistic and historical rigor were
legendary but were also coupled with a gentleness and humaneness that
earned him respect and enormous affection. His former students hold major
positions in leading universities in this country. He lived to help others who
shared his passions, as noted by his weekly Sunday afternoon meetings of the
Persian Poetry Group. We are united in extending our condolences to
Professor Luther's wife Marjory, daughters Anne and Katherine, and son
Kenneth.
Degrees. Provost Machen submitted final degree lists for the December
1996 commencements and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent aganda approved. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda.
Michigan Minority Business Council Award
Executive Vice President Matthews announced that the Flint Campus
had received the 1996 Michigan Minority Business Development Council
"Corporation of the Year" Award. Chancellor Nelms introduced Mr. Dennis


262




February Meeting, 1997


Poszywak and Ms. Gheretta Harris, the Purchasing Department staff
members who had led the efforts that resulted in the campus's having
received the award.
Estate of Helen F. Weber Mineral Rights Lease
Regent Power moved authorization for the University to enter into a
lease agreement for certain lands in 1) T48N, R28W, Sections 24, 26, and 36;
2) T49N, R27W, Sections 20, 26, 28, 30, 34, and 36; and 3) T49N, R28W,
Section 14, Marquette County, Michigan, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Commitment of $7.5 million of the Long Term Portfolio to Battery
Ventures IV, L.P.
The Regents were informed that a commitment of $7.5 million of the
Long Term Portfolio has been made as a follow-on investment in Battery
Ventures IV, L.P., as authorized in May 1994 and as described in the
Regents Communication.
C.C. Little Building
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved renovation of the second floor of the C.C.
Little Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
Herbert H. Dow Building Addition
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that the College of Engineering
is proposing to erect a three-story addition to the Herbert H. Dow Building
to accommodate research laboratories and faculty offices needed by the
Departments of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering.
He introduced Dean Stephen Director, who gave a presentation illustrating
features of the proposed project and describing its rationale. He noted that
although funding for the building is available, the facility nevertheless
presents a good opportunity for donor support. Mr. Frederick Mayer,
university planner, then presented drawings of the site plan and renderings
illustrating how the structure will fit in with the current building.
Regent Horning pointed out that the facade of the south side of the old
G.G. Brown Building does not match any of the buildings in the surrounding
area and requested that an effort be made to bring that building more into
conformity with the others. Dean Director and Mr. Mayer responded that
they would review the available options.
Following the discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the Herbert
H. Dow Building Addition, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
President Bollinger noted that he intends to pay very close attention to
architectural and landscaping issues during his presidency.


263




February Meeting, 1997


Engineering Research Support Building
Mr. Mayer gave a presentation about this proposed building, whose
purpose is to house heavy equipment used in manufacturing-related research
projects in the College of Engineering. He noted that it is to be a utilitarian,
pre-engineered, masonry and steel structure to be constructed on a site
adjacent to other service operations on North Campus.
Following the presentation, Regent Deitch commented on the notable
commitment of Mr. Mayer, Mr. Spradlin, and other staff toward the
improvement of the campus. Regent McFee moved approval of proceeding
with the construction of the Engineering Research Support Building. Regent
Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Parking Services Building
Executive Vice President Matthews stated that this will be a
multiple-use building. It will be used for Parking Services offices currently
housed in other buildings; storage of buses, maintenance, and plowing
vehicles; and Utilities Department shop operations. He called on Mr. Mayer,
who gave a brief presentation about the proposed building.
Following the presentation, Regent McFee moved approval to proceed
with the project for construction of the Parking Services Building, as
described in the Regents Communication. Regent Maynard seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project
Phase II College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Building
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that this is a request for the
appointment of the architect for the previously approved College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters Building. Regent Newman asked for an explanation of
how architects are chosen for University projects. Chancellor Renick and Mr.
Paul Spradlin described the architect selection process, noting that it begins
with a committee that often considers as many as 20-25 architects. This list
is narrowed down to three-five who specialize in the type of building to be
constructed, each of whom is invited to make a presentation to the committee.
Following the presentations, the committee chooses a finalist who is then
recommended to the chief financial officer. The architects must be willing to
work within a fixed fee schedule. All projects are monitored from the start,
usually by the University architect.
Regent Horning moved approval of the appointment of Smith,
Hinchman & Grylls Associates, Inc., as architects for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences and Letters Building segment of
the General Campus Renovation Project Phase III. Regent McFee seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously. Regent McGowan was away
from the table for this vote and the following two votes.


264




February Meeting, 1997


Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) East Quadrangle
elevator installation; 2) Upgrading of the domestic hot water system in Vera
Baits I; 3) Replacement of the domestic hot water piping supply and return
lines in the tunnel from the Central Power Plant to the dental school; 4) Buhr
Building boiler installation; 5) Parking Services 1997 annual maintenance
program; 6) Clinical laboratory renovation in the Department of Pathology; 7)
Renovations in the G.G. Brown Building for laser laboratories.
Membership of M-Care Board of Directors
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Chandler W. Matthews as a member
of the M-Care board of directors.
1610 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann Arbor
Regent Newman moved approval of offering for sale the property at 1610
Washtenaw Avenue, Ann Arbor, at a minimum acceptable bid of $330,000.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.011
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.011, regarding
makeup of the School of Art and Design Executive Committee. The following
is the text of the revised bylaw:
Sec. 11.011. The School of Art and Design Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and four additional
members of the faculty to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the
president. The appointed members shall hold office for two years and shall not be
eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The terms shall be
adjusted so that two shall expire each year. The dean shall chair the committee.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical
staff membership.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:35
a.m. The next meeting is scheduled for March 13-14, 1997. Regents expenses
during the month of January 1997 totaled $2,391.70.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University
265




MARCH MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 13, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Music Room of the Henry
Ford Estate-Fair Lane. Present were President Bollinger and Regents
Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also
present were Interim Executive Vice President Matthews, Provost Machen,
Vice President Harrison, Vice President Hartford, Acting Vice President
Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick, and Secretary Palmer. Regent
McFee and Vice President Kinnear were absent.
President's Report
Searches. President Bollinger called the meeting to order. He noted
that there are a number of searches underway, that he and Provost Machen
are in frequent contact with the search committee chairs, and that good
progress is being made.
Medical Center. Regarding the Medical Center, he reported that the
interim leadership is doing a "tremendous job" and that his goal is to ensure
that there are sufficient resources for the Medical School to be protecting
and building the academic program. It is very important that concerns about
the financial well-being of the hospital not lead to harming "one of the great
academic centers on the campus."
State Relations. President Bollinger also noted that he has been
meeting with legislators and had attended a reception in his honor at the
state capital. He noted that he has found there to be a tremendous love of
the University in Lansing, as well as a sense of the University as one of the
state's great achievements, and a desire on the part of legislators to make
sure it is protected.
Board Issues. President Bollinger noted that at the last meeting, the
Regents had suggested that more data be provided on policy questions. He
announced that Vice President Hartford would respond to this suggestion
with regard to questions raised about residence hall and housing policies at
the last meeting. In reflecting on the more general problem of the Board
obtaining sufficient information to make informed decisions about policy
matters that come before it, he suggested that the Regents consider visiting
another campus once a year to meet with other trustees to see how they
handle issues of common concern and to compare each other's facilities.
Basketball Program. President Bollinger observed that "a thorough,
comprehensive, good faith effort has been made by the University to see
whether there are indeed any violations [of NCAA rules];" that a report and
an investigation to that end, backed by the Big Ten as an independent
observer, has been filed with the NCAA; and that it is now in the hands of


267




March Meeting, 1997


the NCAA. He stated that it is "extremely important that the University be
receptive and open to investigating any credible allegations of wrongdoing on
the part of the athletic program or any other part of the University. We
should be extremely forthcoming when we are faced with challenges to our
behavior, when they are credible." However, he noted that "It is impossible
to respond in that way when the allegations are from unnamed, anonymous
sources." President Bollinger concluded that he wanted to assure the
Regents that a thorough job had been done to this point in trying to uncover
any improper actions.
Vice President Harrison responded to questions from the Regents about
the University's investigations into allegations about the basketball program
that have been made in the press. He emphasized that the University wants
to be absolutely certain that it is running a program that has as high a
degree of integrity as any in the country.
Comments from Chancellor Renick
Chancellor Renick welcomed the executive officers and Regents to the
Dearborn campus. He reviewed some of the campus' accomplishments
during the past twelve months, including the success of the capital campaign
in exceeding its $20 million goal, the presence of a significant number of
construction and renovation projects, record enrollments, externally-funded
grant awards, and national accreditation of the School of Management.
Center for Corporate and Professional Development (CCPD)
Chancellor Renick observed that the campus' noncredit continuing
education efforts have been significantly enhanced by being housed in the
new Center for Corporate and Professional Development. This change
represents a significant aspect of the Dearborn campus' institutional strategy
and is a great source of potential growth. He called on Ms. Saundra Mull,
senior program associate at CCPD, who gave a presentation describing the
CCPD.
Establishment of "Master of Arts in Liberal Studies" Degree Program
at UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Renick noted that the proposed Master of Arts in Liberal
Studies degree program would be the first graduate degree program in the
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters on the Dearborn campus. In response
to a question from Regent Power, Associate Dean Gerald Moran noted that
the executive committee of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies on the Ann Arbor campus had approved the program.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved establishment of the Master of Arts in
Liberal Studies degree program at UM-Dearbom.
1996 Report of Investments
Executive Vice President Matthews called on Associate Vice President
Norman Herbert. Mr. Herbert noted that the Long Term Portfolio (LTP)


268




March Meeting, 1997


had been established in 1995 as the investment pool for the University's
long-term, core assets. He pointed out that the assets of the University
Endowment Fund had immediately been transferred into the LTP, and the
other core assets from the University Investment Pool (UIP) and the Veritas
Insurance Corporation had gradually been transferred into it. He noted that
the decision to establish the LTP and to invest all of the University's core
assets into it was the single most important investment decision the
University made in the last decade, and that it will have a significant,
positive, economic impact for the University.
Mr. Herbert reported that in 1996 the UIP and Veritas portfolios had
returned 8.4 percent and 8.1 percent, respectively, and that the LTP had
returned 16.7 percent. He reviewed comparative statistics of the assets and
performance of the University's investment portfolio over the past five years,
and noted that recent alternative asset investment initiatives have begun to
bear fruit. He pointed out that while venture capital and emerging markets
debt investments represent 10 percent of the LTP, in 1996 they accounted
for about one-third of the performance return for the fund as a whole. The
separately-managed Charitable Remainder Trusts had a return of 19.2
percent, and the Donor Pooled Income Fund returned 10.3 percent, which is
consistent with other similar funds with income orientations.
Mr. Herbert then called on Ms. Mary Cove, of Cambridge Associates, the
University's investment consultant. Ms. Cove noted that her comments
would be directed toward the separately distributed report prepared by
Cambridge Associates.
Ms. Cove reviewed the University's long-term portfolio strategy with
regard to asset allocation, common stock management, and alternative asset
investments, as outlined in the handout. She reviewed the achievements of
1996, which included the hiring of several common stock and bond
managers, establishing positions in high quality alternative assets funds, and
increasing investment in inflation-hedging assets.  Initiatives for 1997
include continuing commitments to alternative asset funds, possibly
increasing the University's allocation to alternative assets, continuing to
further diversify the overall portfolio and continuing to focus on real estate,
oil and gas, and commodities as inflation-hedging assets.
Ms. Cove reviewed a chart illustrating how the University's asset
allocations have changed since 1991, and another chart illustrating
investment performance for each of the past five calendar years. The total
return for the Long Term Portfolio for 1996 was 16.7 percent, as compared
to the endowment median of 14.8 percent. The five-year annualized LTP
return of 12.4 percent is greater than the endowment median of 12.2
percent.
President Bollinger noted that the University of Michigan's performance
is modest compared to that of peer institutions, as illustrated on another
chart, and asked whether that was due to structural or policy reasons. Ms.
Cove and Mr. Herbert responded that the University has less exposure to
alternative assets (15.7 percent) than the other institutions (35.9 percent
group mean), largely due to the fact that the others began investing in this


269




March Meeting, 1997


asset class years before the University of Michigan did. They also explained
that although the University has authorized the investment of 30 percent of
the LTP into alternative assets, it takes time to identify opportunities and
then to actually move the funds into these investments. They said that at the
present time, there are no risk-taking, policy-related, or structural issues in
which the University differs from its peer institutions. President Bollinger
noted that none of the peer institutions used for comparison were public
institutions and suggested that it might be worthwhile to have data from
some public institutions as well.
Ms. Cove and Associate Vice President Herbert also responded to questions
about how Cambridge Associates works with its various client institutions.
They noted that institutions have different goals and come from differing
financial situations. They utilize different investment strategies based on a
number of factors, so that they might not want to invest in areas, such as
alternative assets, that are of interest to other institutions. These preferences
all have an impact on the type of advice given by the company. Ms. Cove and
Mr. Herbert assured the Regents that opportunities for the University are not
limited by its association with Cambridge Associates; Mr. Herbert pointed out
that University staff occasionally hear of opportunities independent of
Cambridge, and these individual relationships are important to cultivate and
maintain.
Ms. Cove then reviewed the data in the Cambridge publication about
inflation-hedging investments, noting that commodities tend to outperform
traditional stocks and bonds in times of high inflation and under perform
during times of low inflation. The role of commodities is to serve as a hedge
against inflation and as a means of diversification and to generate short-term
returns. She reviewed the types of investment vehicles available for passive
and active exposure to a commodities index. She also described the structure,
advantages, and disadvantages of real estate investment trusts (REITS) and
responded to questions about this type of investment.
Following the discussion, Regent Power recalled that in the early 1980s,
the University's investments were managed by the trust department of a
bank, with asset allocations weighted very conservatively. He commented on
the enormous change that had occurred since then in the manner in which
the University manages its investments and complimented the treasurer and
his staff for guiding the Board to the point where they are today.
The Regents and president thanked Ms. Cove and Associate Vice President
Herbert for an excellent presentation.
Provost Machen: General Remarks
Provost Machen reported that a lifesaving liver transplant had been performed on a local adolescent the previous day at the University of Michigan
Medical Center.
He also announced that the University had recently received a
significant award from the National Science Foundation to develop its
undergraduate research program. He further noted that the University
intends to participate in the "America Reads" program, which has been
270




March Meeting, 1997


established by President Clinton to provide jobs for work/study students
teaching elementary-aged children how to read.
Provost Machen reported that he and President Bollinger are in the
process of reviewing over 130 requests for promotion and tenure which will
be submitted to the Regents in May.
Co-Interim    General Counsel
President Bollinger called to the table the two individuals recommended
for appointment as the University's new interim co-general counsel: Daniel
Sharphorn and Elizabeth Barry. He noted that Mr. Sharphorn would be in
charge of the day-to-day operation of the office and that Ms. Barry would be
working directly with him and the Regents.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the appointment of Daniel Sharphorn
and Elizabeth    Barry as interim    co-general counsel.    Regent Newman
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the February 1997
meeting.
Reports. Interim Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the
following reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and PersonnelLabor Relations, and responded to questions from the Regents.
Vice President Neidhardt presented Projects Established, February 1 -February 28, 1997. The Faculty Governance Update was also submitted.
Voluntary Support. The Report of Voluntary Support was submitted
to the Regents.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for research in the College of Pharmacy and for employee matching gifts... $ 27,794
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy............... 15,000
Allied Signal, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute... 7,500
ALS Association West Michigan Chapter, Grand Rapids
for research  in the Medical School....................................  5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division........................... 60,913
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in
the College of Pharmacy................... 9,000
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  18,750
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School......................................  25,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  35,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................. 6,484
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts............                            16,265
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies....................................................  5,000


271




March Meeting, 1997


Anonymous Donor
54,860 shares of Pharmacia & Upjohn common stock
for the Rachael Upjohn Fellowship and Professorship, Medical School........ 1,995,533
Anonymous Donor
824 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Art and Design............................ 51,655
Armstrong World Industries, Inc. Charitable Foundation, Lancaster, Pennsylvania
for the Curt Reimann Quality Leadership Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration............................................  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute of Gerontology.......... 25,037
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 58,449
Juliane K. Bailey, New York, New York
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts..........................................................  5,000
Robert O. Barr Estate
for the Faculty Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 20,000
Guy Barron, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Sepphoris Exhibition Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  Arts.............................................................  25 000
BCBSM Foundation, Detroit
for research  in the Medical School.......................................  9,930
Beckman Instruments, Inc., Fullerton, California
for employee matching gifts.............................................  5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
97 shares of General Electric common stock
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,167
Marie M. Bird Trust
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,000
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Art, and for the University Musical Society........................... 13,500
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
700 shares of U.S. West Media Group common stock
for the George H. Boyce Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the University of Michigan....................................  12,600
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
156 shares of Microsoft common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support of the
Law   School..........................................................  15,308
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville North Carolina
for research in the Medical School......................................  20,000
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 12,500
CaP Cure, Beverly Hills, California
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 150,000
Carbomedics, Inc., Austin, Texas
for research in the Medical School........................... 7,291
Wendy Will Case Cancer Fund Inc Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................   7,500
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for the MEAM Undergraduate Student Aid Fund in the College of
Engineering, and for the Endangered Species Fund in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment.....................................  7,000
Chi Systems, Ann Arbor
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of
Public  H eaIth........................................................  10,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for employee matching  gifts............................................  30,042
Clarcor Foundation, Rockford, Illinois
for employee matching gifts..................................... 5,000
CNA Insurance Companies, Chicago, Illinois
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 15,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts.............................................  5,300
Commonwealth Fund NewYork, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 45,000


272




March Meeting, 1997


Jean Conrad, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 5,000
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts.......... 12,680
Continental Cablevision Midwest Region, Findlay, Ohio
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 15,000
Eugene Cordes, Ann Arbor
for research supplies and the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College
of Pharmacy......................................................... 50,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 9,875
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................... 8,100
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Sally Michelson Davidson Professorship in Chinese Arts and
Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 100,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration..... 5,000
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for employee matching gifts............................................ 33,104
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
J. Robert Dobbins, Dallas, Texas
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School
of Business Administration............................................. 5,000
Jane N. Dobbins Estate
for the Ralph W. Dobbins Fellowship in Aerospace Engineering in the
College of Engineering..............................................  197,886
Floyd D. Donelson Estate, St. Petersburg, Florida
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 40,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla California
661 shares of Merrill Lynch common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert J. Donia Chair Challenge Fund and other support in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts.............................. 55,128
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for employee matching gifts.............................................   9,039
DowBrands, L.P., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration........................................... 7,500
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...........................................   16,100
David K. Easlick, Naples, FIorida
1,700 shares of Ameritech Corporation common stock
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School
of Dentistry.......................................................  101,256
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute...................................................... 7,500
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships and the Michigan Leadershape
Institute in the College of Engineering.................................. 20,592
Exxon Chemical Company, Darien, Connecticut
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 55,000
Ross Lee Finney Trust
for the Ross Lee Finney Fellowship in the School of Music................... 5,000
Frederick J. Fischer Estate
555 shares of Professional Insurance Company Management common stock
for the Pediatric Orthopaedic Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School... 11,690
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering,
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute for the University Musical Society, and for
the Environmental Study Area Fund at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn................................................... 76,200
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration, for the Ann Arbor Flower Show presented by
the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and for employee matching gifts.......... 111,400
273




March Meeting, 1997


Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 25,000
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
1,444 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  104,764
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute and for the Ann
Arbor Flower Show presented by the Matthaei Botanical Gardens........... 66,130
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 5,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................. 15,000
Goldman Sachs Money Markets, Inc., New York, New York
for the Lindenauer Vascular Research and Education Award in the
M edical School........................................................  5,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research..........................................          70,545
Charles Grosberg Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
3,586 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Dr. Joseph 0. and Mrs. Norma Grosberg Endowment in the
School of Dentistry...................................................  82,534
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,000
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 50,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering........ 10,000
Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Dearborn Summit Fund and other support in the Medical School...... 8,000
Marjorie F. Hospidor Estate
for the Mary Dennis Folmer Faculty Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................17,403
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
400 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Frances B. Fur ong Scholarship in the School of Music and
for the Solar Car Project Fund and other support in the College of
Engineering                                                          63,600
IBM Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute......................................................  7,500
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Romulus
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn............................................... 7,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering, and for the Collaboratory for
Research on Electronic Work Program............................ 110,000
International Paper, Charlotte, North Carolina
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 12,500
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute...............................................  7,500
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  75,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matching  gifts............................................  10,940
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 18,750
Cis Maisel Kellman Trust
12,200 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Medical School.............. 421,713
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for employee matching gifts...................................    10,920
Bertha M. Kiel Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000


274




March Meeting, 1997


Barbara M. Kitzner, Allen Park
for the Environmental Study Area Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.. 5,000
Herbert Kohn, Kansas City, Missouri
5,000 shares of Harmon Industries, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Herbert M. Kohn Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law School............................... 100,000
John Kutsche Estate
for the Kutsche Memorial Professorship in Internal Medicine in the
M edical School...............................................    383,827
Norman J. Leven Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration..................................... 5,000
Lewis Unitrust, Washington, DC
for the Frances ana Sydney Lewis Visiting Leaders Program in the Center
for the Education of Women...............................          15,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................... 8,750
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.......... 60,660
Litvak Foundation, Troy
for the Kenneth Siegel Scholarship in the Law School...................... 10,000
Dorothy S. Lundahl Trust
for the  University  Library.............................................  10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Schools of Education and Natural Resources and
Environment and for employee matching gifts........................... 517,750
David R. MacDonald, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Olivia P. Maynard, Goodrich
1,590 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for the building fund in the School of Social Work........................ 200,936
Douglas C. McClintock, Northville
for support in the School of Art and Design and for unrestricted
support of the University of Michigan.................................... 5,000
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................. 5,000
John G. McKevitt, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
1,440 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for the John G. and Ruth R. McKevitt Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the School of Public
Policy, the University Library and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  118,710
Thomas B. McMullen Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Schools of Information and Business Administration and
for the Populations Studies Center in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts........................................                   700,000
Merck & Company, West Point, Pennsylvania
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for support in the Medical School........................................ 6,000
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration and for research in the Schools of Medicine
and  Public  Health..............................................   75,000
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for the South Ferry Field Athletics Pressbox Fund in the Department
of Athletics..........................................................  10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering................ 12,500
Mobil Research & Development Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration..................................... 15,000
Alice W. Moore Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 60,000
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood Colorado
for research  in  the Medicl Scho0ol......................................  18,750


275




March Meeting, 1997


Morris-Sweetland Living Trust
for the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  75,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Curt Reimann Quality Leadership Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration............................................. 5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School...................................... 13,781
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 7,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................   134,415
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 25,000
NBD Bank, N.A., Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint, and for WFUM/TV........... 9,195
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 20,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research in  the Medical School......................................  24,566
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resource Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration, and for employee matching gifts................ 15,580
David and Lucile Packard Foundation Los Altos, California
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 25,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 83,475
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 20,000
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for English Language and Literature support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................ 5,000
Pfizer Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Pharmacy, for research in the Medical
School and for employee matching gifts.......................... 51,500
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 12,522
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Praxair, Inc., Pinckney
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute... 7,500
Quinton Instrument Company, Bothell, Washington
for the Joyce Stoltz Memorial Fund in the Medical School................... 9,995
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,833
Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Integrated Pre-Medical Scholarship
in the Medical School.............................................. 15,337
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for the International Institute in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  24,935
Ronald W. Rosenberg, Birmingham
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Sterling L. Ross, Jr., Mill Valley, California
263 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland common stock
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,030
Ross Roy, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the University Musical Society......................................  5,500
Alfred I. Rothman, Studio City, California
for support of the Law  School.........................................  5,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration..................................       15,000
Russell Sage Foundation New York, New York
for the Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research....... 45,207


276




March Meeting, 1997


Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment in the Institute of Gerontology........ 10,000
Cynthia Shannon, Bloomfield Hills
for the Chain of Support Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 25,000
Patricia A. Sinn, Chelsea
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics................... 5,250
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for the Michigan Neighborhood Partnership Fund and for employee
m atching  gifts.......................................................  32,175
Solectron California Corporation, Milpitas, California
for the Curt Reimann Quality Leadership Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration.............................................  5,000
Penelope A. Stamps, Key Largo, Florida
for support m the Schools of Education and Art and Design................. 10,000
Steadman-Hawkins Sports Medicine Foundation, Vail, Colorado
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,500
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
200 shares of John H. Harlan Company common stock
for the Robert G. Strachan Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  5,863
Supreme Council of the 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation
of the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rites Funds in the Medical School.......................... 8,625
John Sweetland, Jr., Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the Gayle Sweetland Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
Textron Automotive Exteriors, Inc., Troy
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
TG North America Corporation, Troy
for research in the College of Engineering................................  19,600
Ileane and Bruce E. Thai Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for Native American studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts........................                               10,875
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration and for the Center for Engineering
Education and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 182,300
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for urology research in the Medical School...............................  11,217
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research........... 8,688
University of Colorado Foundation, Inc., Boulder, Colorado
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development........... 116,404
Kent Waldrep National Paralysis Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  14,850
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts.......... 14,400
Jerry A. Weisbach, Ann Arbor
905 shares of SIBIA Neurosciences common stock
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Professorship and other support in
the Medical School, and for Gifts Pending Designation...................... 7,806
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 10,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 71,200
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship and the Elizabeth V.
and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship, School of Business Administration..... 15,000
Walter E. Wilson Trust
8,146 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Student Team Project Center in the College of Engineering......... 335,947
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the APPAM/Sloan Fellowship in the School of Public Policy............. 18,000
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for the Judy and Simeon Brinberg Travel Award Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  5,000


277




March Meeting, 1997


World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................  50,000
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School...................... 5,000
Irma M. Wyman, St. Paul, Minnesota
140 shares of Home Depot common stock
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women..... 7,175
Asa G. Yancey, Sr Atlanta, Georgia
380 shares ofMerck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Carolyn D. and Asa G. Yancey, Sr., M.D., Fund in the Medical School..... 32,965
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  8,500
Samuel Zell Revocable Trust
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
four books for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Kyle Henderson, Chicago, Illinois
one-half the value of a collection of Kimmell Family 19th and 20th century items for
the Clements Library
Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
sixteen HP 715/100 computers with monitors and related equipment for the
mathematics department
J. Kachen Kimmell, Chicago, Illinois
one-half the value of a collection of Kimmell Family 19th and 20th century items for
the Clements Library
Ernest N. McCarus, Ann Arbor
volumes 86 through 115 of the Journal of the American Oriental Society for the
Department of Near Eastern Studies
Ola J. McCollough, Dexter
a Steinway & Sons grand piano for the School of Music, in memory of Roy J. and
Virleah R. Purchase
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Susan E. Alcock, Ann Arbor          Molly Lindner, Ann Arbor
Robbins Burling, Ann Arbor          Rudi P. Lindner, Ann Arbor
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor           Pearson M. Macek, Ann Arbor
Sally Jo Churchill, Ann Arbor       Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Geoff Compton, Athens, Georgi       James A. McLean, Ann Arbor
John H. D Arms, Ann Arbor           Jeffrey R. Parsons, Ann Arbor
Sebastian Heath, New York, New York  Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota
Carey Ferchland Jernigan, Ann Arbor  Margaret Cool Root, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor            Christine M. Waters, New Hudson
Nathan T. Whitman, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Machen submitted
a number of personnel actions and personnel reports.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Griffiths, Jose-Marie, Ph.D., Professor of Information, April 1, 1997
Knysh, Alexander D., P.h.D., from Assistant Professor of Islamic Studies to Professor of
Islamic Studies, September 1, 1997


278




March Meeting, 1997


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Corcoran, Mary E., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, and
Professor of Social Work, without tenure, School of Social Work, also appointed
Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 1, 1997
Faulkner, John A., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, February 1, 1997
Herbert, Sharon C., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek,, with tenure, Chair,
Department of Classical Studies and Research Scientist, Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology, also appointed Director, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, five-year term,
July 1, 1997
Hinshaw, Daniel B., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Assistant
Dean, Medical School, March 1, 1997
Killeen, Timothy L., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Vice President for Research, three-year term, April 1, 1997
Marino, Joseph P., from Professor of Chemistry with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Research, Computing, and Facilities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, to Professor of
Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Chemistry
and Chair, Department of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five-year term, July 1, 1997
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on March 14, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Barry, Elizabeth M., Interim Co-General Counsel
Sharphorn, Daniel H., Interim Co-General Counsel
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
UM-Dearborn School of Management Executive Committee
Me Cracken, Gail K., March 1-April 30, 1997, vice Barbara Murray, sick leave
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1997,unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Chul-in, Lee, B.A., Lecturer I in Economics
Huntington, Gertrude E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Geological Sciences
McKinney, Mary K., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Pfaff, Raman, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics
Wu, Yingnian, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics


279




March Meeting, 1997


Medical School
Chapman, Daniel K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Pearce, Bridget K., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, April 1, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Stavropoulos, Mary F., from Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry and Lecturer in
Surgery, Medical School, to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry and Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, February 1, 1997
College of Engineering
Fessler, Jeffrey A., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science also
appointed Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, January 1, 1997
Medical School
Korszun, Anna-Krystyna, from Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and
Lecturer in Psychiarty, Medical School to Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, and Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, November 1, 1996
School of Public Health
Chernew, Michael E., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of
Public Health, also appointed Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 1996
Hirth, Richard A., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public
Health, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1, 1997-April 30, 1997
College of Engineering
Mathes, John C., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1997 unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Adams, Julia P., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Fulton, Alice, Professor of English, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Huber, John D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, on duty off campus
Kyes, Robert L., Professor of German, with tenure, on duty off campus,
Levine, Daniel H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, on duty off campus
Milroy, Ann L., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, on duty off campus
Noble, Richard S., Lecturer II in Philosophy, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1997
Seidler, Ingo, Professor of German, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1997


280




March Meeting, 1997


Medical School
Bloembergen, Wendy E., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, extended sick leave,
September 9-October 6, 1996
School of Public Health
Simmons, Milagros S., Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Hull, Brooks B., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Social Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Mojica, Rafael H., Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Foreign Languages, sabbatical leave
CHANGE TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Fessler, Kathryn B., Clinical Instructor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, leave
without salary, December 7, 1996-January 26, 1997, (previously reported as
December 7, 1996-February 2, 1997)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Banks, Peter M., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, resigned,
December 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lockwood, William G., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1997
Luther, K. Allin, Professor of Persian Studies, with tenure, deceased, February 2, 1997
Medical School
Baumann, Gregory W., Clinical Associate II in Surgery, resigned, February 14, 1997
Chafty, Michael D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, January 31, 1997
Coon, William W., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1996
Knopf, Ralph F., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retired, June 30, 1996
Laurent, Susan J., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned,
February 28, 1997
Levy, Richard A., Assistant Professor of Radiology, resigned, February 26, 1997
Roberts, James A., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, resigned,
February 14, 1997
Troen, Bruce R., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, March 14, 1997
Van Schoick, Richard M., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
term complete, December 31, 1996
College of Pharmacy
Reitz, Jeffrey A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, resigned, February 21, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Stringer, Susan, Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, term complete, May 31, 1997


281




March Meeting, 1997


Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted two retirement
memoirs.
William W. Coon, M.D., professor of surgery, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1996, after a most productive, 40-year career
as a teacher, clinician, and researcher.
A native of Saginaw, Michigan, Dr. Coon attended The Johns Hopkins
University from 1943-45 and received his M.D. degree from The Johns
Hopkins University Medical School in 1949. From 1949-56, he completed his
internship and surgical residency training at the University of Michigan
Hospitals. During that time, he also spent two years (1953-55) as chief of
surgery at the U.S. Army Hospital in Augsburg, Germany, returning
subsequently to complete his surgical residency.
Dr. Coon joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in
surgery in 1956. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate
professor in 1962, and professor in 1967. From 1956-62, he was also an
attending surgeon at the Ann Arbor Veterans Administration Hospital, and
thereafter, he served as a consultant. From 1956-64, he was medical director
of the Blood Bank at the University of Michigan Medical Center, where he
continued on as a consultant until 1980. Dr. Coon also served as assistant
director of the Clinical Research Center at the University of Michigan Medical
Center from 1962-86 and was chair of the Institutional Review Board (IRB)
for 25 years, retiring from the position in December 1995.
During his illustrious career, Dr. Coon was a member of many
professional societies and served for 10 years as a member of the editorial
board of the Journal of Surgical Research. He was involved in 122
peer-reviewed publications, 83 of which he was primary author. He was also
the primary author of 28 book chapters.
Dr. Coon has distinguished himself as a nationally recognized authority
in clotting disorders of blood and thromboembolism. His research efforts
were seminal in establishing clinical standards for anticoagulation of
thrombotic venous disorders. He is also a recognized authority on the
management of hematologic diseases with splenectomy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming William W. Coon professor emeritus of surgery.
Ralph F. Knopf, M.D., professor of internal medicine, Division of
Endocrinology and Metabolism, retired from active faculty status on June 30,
1996, following a long and outstanding career as a teacher, clinician, and
researcher.
Dr. Knopf received his B.S. and M.D. degrees in 1951 and 1954,
respectively, from the University of Michigan. He completed his internship
and a year of medical residency at Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle,
Washington, in 1954-56, where he received the Pfizer Resident Award in
1955. He returned to the University of Michigan in 1956, where he completed
his residency in 1959. He was a fellow in the Division of Endocrinology and
Metabolism from 1959-62 and was appointed instructor in internal medicine
in 1962. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, associate professor
in 1967, and professor in 1973.


282




March Meeting, 1997


Dr. Knopf has been a superb clinician and teacher, who is widely
recognized for his extensive knowledge of endocrinology and his teaching
efforts. He has provided endocrinology care to patients in the high risk
pregnancy clinic, has served as co-director for the endocrine diagnostic
laboratory, and was the endocrine sequence coordinator for sophomore
medical students. His outstanding commitment and efforts as a clinician have
provided excellent care to large numbers of patients with diabetes and other
endocrine diseases.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician for his dedicated
service by naming Ralph F. Knopf professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded
by Regent Maynard, the Regents voted unanimously to approve the consent
agenda.
Audit Report: The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income
Fund for Years Ended December 31, 1996 and 1995
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the audit report for the University of Michigan Donor
Pooled Income Fund for Years Ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report
of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University
of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1996
The Regents received supplemental information to the certified audited
financial report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the
University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.
Appointment of Auditors for 1996-97
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews submitted a recommendation
for the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for 1996-97, which
would be the eleventh year of this engagement. Regent Newman pointed out
that for each of the past two years the Board had been told that that year
would be the last for this firm, because sound operating procedure dictates
that auditors be rotated every several years. She emphasized that she had no
reservations about the quality of the services provided by Ernst & Young, but
was responding to the administration's own, previously-stated recommendation
and said that she would like to learn the rationale for being asked to go
against this advice.
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews responded that he would
like to present to the Regents an explanation of the search and analysis
process used to choose a new auditor, as well as a plan for moving forward.
Regents Power and Deitch expressed agreement with Regent Newman.
Regent Deitch suggested that a report be presented about the auditor
selection process at the earliest opportunity. Regent Power suggested that it


283




March Meeting, 1997


might be prudent to wait until the new chief financial officer is in place;
however, Regent Newman expressed that she feels strongly that this decision
should not wait until then.
Regent Deitch suggested that since the Board of Regents does not have
an audit committee, it would be prudent for the Regents to understand the
process of audit as it relates to an institution of this magnitude and
complexity. Regent Newman suggested that a subcommittee of Regents
might work with the auditors and then seek advice and input from the rest of
the Board. Interim Executive Vice President Matthews said that he would
respond to the Regents' concerns and suggestions.
There being no further discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the
reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for 1996-97. Regent
Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Semiannual Report for Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities
Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews submitted a schedule
summarizing the activity in the Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities
Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the six month periods ending
December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995.
The meeting then recessed at 4:00 p.m. to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Ilona Cohen, student, about the use
of invocations at campus ceremonies, and Matthew Shankin, student and
part-time staff member, about the effect of the proposed UM Health System
benefits redesign proposal on part-time employees.
Friday, March 14, 1997
The Regents met at 9:55 a.m. in the Regents Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, and Power. Also present were Interim Executive Vice President
Matthews, Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison, Vice President Hartford,
Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick, and Secretary
Palmer. Regents McFee and Taylor and Vice President Kinnear were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and noted that Regent
Taylor's absence was due to the crisis conditions created for his employer,
the Detroit Edison Company, by the previous evening's ice storm.
R. Chaney & Partners III, L.P.
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews reported to the Regents
that a follow-on investment of $20.0 million had been made in R. Chaney &
Partners III, L.P., in accordance with previously approved guidelines.


284




March Meeting, 1997


Oak Investment Partners VII, L.P.
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews reported to the Regents that
a follow-on investment of $5.0 million had been made in Oak Investment
Partners VI, L.P., in accordance with previously approved guidelines.
Regents Design Approval Process for Major Projects
Interim Executive Vice President Matthews brought forth a proposal to
enhance communication involving the design of major new projects, under
which a list of design objects would be presented as an "item for
information" in time to allow reaction and receive Regents' comments prior
to the presentation of the final design for approval.
Regents Power and Deitch expressed agreement with the revised
approval process. Regent Deitch observed that new building construction
decisions have important, long-term impacts on the campus, and that this
procedure should aid in the process.
University of Michigan Hospitals Emergency Medicine Office
Renovation
Regent Newman moved approval of the Emergency Medicine Office
renovation, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Maynard
seconded the motion. Regent Power asked how many square feet the project
involves and the cost per square foot. Interim Executive Vice President
Matthews said that he would obtain that information. Regent Power
requested that in the future, projects such as this include data regarding
square footage and cost per square foot. The vote was then taken, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Lease Agreement with Brighton Land Group
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a lease agreement between the University of
Michigan and Brighton Land Group.
Because Dr. Donald Beser and Christine Beser have a 50 percent equity
interest in Brighton Land Group and will also be University employees, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and
Brighton Land Group.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract will be through
April 30, 2000. The University will lease real property located at
5728 Whitmore Lake Road, Brighton, Michigan 48116. The medical
office facility is 6,210 square feet, at a rental rate of $18 per square
foot, $111,780 annually (for year 1 starting on May 1, 1997). The
Medical Center will place clericals, medical assistants, nurse, and
physicians there to provide necessary ophthalmology medicine
services to the community.


285




March Meeting, 1997


3.  Dr. and Mrs. Besers' pecuniary interest arises from their 50 percent
equity interest in Brighton Land Group. Through Brighton Land
Group, Dr. and Mrs. Beser will receive revenues generated by the
leasing of the property to the University.
Lease Agreement with Barron Associates
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a lease agreement with Barron Associates.
Because Dr. Parviz Panahi is both a University employee and also holds a
12.7 percent ownership interest in Barron Associates, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, although Regental
approval has already been received for a lease agreement for space in the
same building involving Dr. Panahi. However, Dr. James Adams also holds
an equity interest in Barron Associates and will be a University employee.
Therefore, this agreement is subject to the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and
Barron Associates.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract will be through
April 30, 2000. The University will lease real property located at
4810 Clark Road, Ypsilanti, MI. The medical office facility is
approximately 1,700 square feet at a rental rate of $22.50 per square
foot, $38,250 annually (for 3 years starting on May 1, 1997). The
Medical Center will place clericals, medical assistants, nurses, and
physicians there to provide necessary ophthalmology medicine
services to the community.
3.  Dr. Adams' pecuniary interest arises from his 20 percent equity
interest in Barron Associates. Through Barron Associates, Dr.
Adams will receive revenues generated by the leasing of the property
to the University.
Technology Management Program
Regent Newman suggested that a presentation be made to the Regents
about products that have been commercialized through the technology
management program, the revenues that have come back to the University,
and whether there is a potential for improvements.
Vice President Neidhardt responded that his office has formed the
"Industrial Initiative" whose purpose is to review the University's relationship
to industry, both in general and in particular with respect to contract research
and technology transfer. Phase I of the study has been completed, and the
next phase will engender determining how to proceed with the information
gained from Phase I. He also noted that the Technology Management Office is
currently under periodic review, so that the information requested by Regent
Newman is readily available.
President Bollinger suggested that a comprehensive presentation and
discussion of these issues should be scheduled at a later date, after the


286




March Meeting, 1997


completion of the current initiative underway by the vice president for
research.
Proposed    Research    Agreement     between   the   University    of
Michigan and PORT Systems, LLC
Regent Horning moved approval of a research agreement between the
University of Michigan and PORT Systems, LLC ("PORT"). PORT is a joint
venture between the BF Goodrich Company and TSRL, Inc. ("TSRL").
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Dr. Gordon Amidon is a University employee who also is a director,
officer, and stockholder in TSRL and a director and stockholder in PORT.
John Crison, Elke Lipka, and Yasahiro Tsume are both TSRL and University
employees. Therefore, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the Agreement are the University of Michigan and PORT
Systems, LLC.
2.  The terms of the proposed research contract conform to University
policy. The period of performance is three years at a total cost of
$1,059,656, which amount includes full recovery of the University's
indirect costs.
3.  The work will be performed under the direction of Gordon Amidon,
whose pecuniary interest arises by virtue of his position as director,
officer, and stockholder in TSRL and director and stockholder in
PORT. None of the TSRL employees with University appointments
has any connection with the project on behalf of the University.
Proposed License Agreement with MiTex Solutions, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement with MiTex Solutions,
Inc. to practice and commercialize a patented invention developed and owned
by the University of Michigan known as the Generic Cell Controlling Method
and Apparatus for Computer Integrated Manufacturing System ("GCC").
Because James R. Moyne is a University employee and also holds an equity
interest in MiTex Solutions, Inc., this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MiTex
Solutions, Inc.
2.  Contract terms include a license issue fee of $zero (i.e., no issue fee is
required). Royalties to the University of 12.5 percent of net sales of
the software that was developed at the University (not less than
$750.00/copy) and 3 percent of net sales of software independently
developed by or for MiTex that implements the patented aspect of
GCC (not less than $200.00/copy). These rates are the same as
included in an agreement in which the same technology has been
licensed to another small corporation that is located in another state.
So long as MiTex has its headquarters and principal place of business


287




March Meeting, 1997


in the state of Michigan, the royalty rates shall be reduced
respectively to 6 percent (not less than $250.00) and 1.5 percent (not
less than $100.00).
Royalty of 20 percent on sublicense revenue.
Non-exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology.
The University retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $100.00 for 1998 and for 1999; and
$500.00 for 2000 and each year thereafter during the term of the
agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patent and the copyright,
as applicable.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.  Dr. Moyne's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in
MiTex Solutions, Inc. He has waived any personal participation in
the sharing of royalties received by the University from that
company.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Hays-Fisk, L.L.C.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and Hays-Fisk, L.L.C., to practice and commercialize a patented
invention owned by the University of Michigan, known as the Circle to Line
Interferometer System (TMO File #357). Because Professors Paul B. Hays
and Lennard A. Fisk hold an equity interest in Hays-Fisk, L.L.C., this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Hays-Fisk, L.L.C., a company in which Professors Paul B. Hays and
Lennard A. Fisk hold an equity interest.
2.  Contract terms include:
A license issue fee of $2,000.00, payable in four $500.00 installments.
Royalties to the University for each system using the Circle to Line
Interferometer System built by or for Hays-Fisk, L.L.C., its affiliates
and sub licensees, varying from $50.00 per system up to $42,500.00
per system, depending upon the system sales price.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject
to certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for research
and educational purposes. The University retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $500.00 for 1997; $1,000.00 for 1998;
and $2,000.00 for 1999 and each year thereafter during the term of
the agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patent.


288




March Meeting, 1997


No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.  The pecuniary interest of Professors Hays and Fisk arises from their
ownership interest in Hays-Fisk, L.L.C. Professor Hays is the sole
inventor of the Circle to Line Interferometer System and he has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received
by the University from the company.
University of Michigan Health System Expansion of Primary Care
Network in Brighton
Regent Newman moved approval of the purchase of six acres of land in
Brighton that will include a new, 41,000 square foot facility to house the
Brighton Health Center, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
5631 Sugar Bush, Flint, Michigan
Executive Vice President Matthews explained that property located at
5631 Sugar Bush in Flint, Michigan, had been offered to the University by
the estate of Margaret Winegarden, pursuant to a trust agreement executed
by Mrs. Winegarden prior to her death. Regent Maynard observed that the
property is in a marketable location, and said she was pleased that it is
finally coming before the Board because it will be beneficial to the Flint
campus.
Following further discussion, Regent Horning moved that the Regents
accept and authorize the sale of the property at 5631 Sugar Bush, Flint,
Michigan, subject to the environmental due diligence described in the
Regents Communication.    Upon acceptance of this gift property, the
University will obtain its own independent appraisal and sell the property at
or above the appraised value.  The sale proceeds, less any Realtor's
commission, will benefit the Flint Campus. Regent Deitch seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Establishment of the Center for University Outreach at UM-Flint
Chancellor Nelms informed the Regents about the establishment on the
Flint campus of the Center for University Outreach. The purpose of the
center is to utilize University resources to meet the needs of the community
in ways which contribute to the University mission of teaching, research, and
service.
University Housing
Vice President Hartford stated that she and her staff are planning a
number of presentations in response to the concerns that had been expressed
at the last meeting about the need for bench marking data with respect to
University Housing issues. These presentations will include bench marking
data as well as comparable data from other institutions and will cover the
general topics of facilities, occupancy, and financial issues. The presentation
on facilities, which was to have been today, will be delayed due to the
absence of two Regents.


289




March Meeting, 1997


There followed a general discussion about topics which should be
considered, including the situation with regard to rooms that house more
than the intended number of students, the relationship between the
University's housing program and the Ann Arbor housing market, and the
relationship between student housing and the quality of undergraduate
education.
President Bollinger noted that this is a very complicated issue which is
best responded to in several ways, including scheduling discussion times at
meetings, visiting other campuses, perhaps visiting residence halls.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8e of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents
meet in closed session on March 14, 1997, in the Regents' Room, for
the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The public portion of the meeting ended at 10:30 a.m. The meeting
continued in executive session, beginning at 10:35 a.m.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 10:55 a.m. The next meeting is scheduled
for April 17-18, 1997. Regents expenses for February 1997 totaled $2,662.07.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


290




APRIL MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 17, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Homing, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice
President Matthews, Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick,
and Secretary Palmer. Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the start of the
meeting; Vice President Kinnear was absent.
Death of Susan Lipschutz
President Bollinger observed that Susan Lipschutz, associate provost, had
died on Sunday, April 13. He said that he had known Susan Lipschutz since his
earliest days at the University, and that he had never met anyone "who was
wiser, who understood the values of the University better, anybody more loyal
to the institution and to the people she worked for, than Susan." He noted that
her death was a huge loss to the institution, and that she had suffered with
enormous dignity the disease she had had for the past several years.
Provost Machen also commented on the extent of Dr. Lipschutz's impact
on the University. He noted that she was to have been recommended for
reappointment for another term as associate provost at this Regents'
Meeting. He said her death "was a great loss to the University and a great
loss to me personally." He noted that a memorial service was being planned
by the University for a later date.
Regent McGowan said that she had been pleased to learn earlier in the
month that Dr. Lipschutz was to be recommended for reappointment. She
recounted that she always looked to Dr. Lipschutz at every Regents' Meeting
for direction, because her judgment was impeccable. Regent McGowan
observed that Susan Lipschutz "was truly one of Michigan's treasures," and
"that we are just beginning to realize how extensive the loss of Susan will
be." She expressed sympathy on behalf of the Board of Regents to Dr.
Lipschutz's husband Dan, their two children, Debbie and David, and her
parents, who survive her.
President's Report
Value Centered Management (VCM). President Bollinger noted that
in a public lecture the previous week, he had said he would be recommending
that the VCM model be modified to incorporate a "tuition follows enrollment"
rule, rather than a "tuition follows credit" rule. This change is being made to
remove some of the tensions and difficulties that have emerged so far in the
implementation of the new system. He observed that although there are still
issues that will need to be addressed as the system is implemented, this type
291




April Meeting, 1997


of budgeting system is widely used in academic institutions and the
University intends to stay with it for the foreseeable future.
Fleming Administration Building. President Bollinger observed
that he had expressed publicly a desire to move his office out of the Fleming
Administration Building. He has asked Mr. Paul Spradlin, interim associate
vice president for business operations, to review the available options. In
due course, he expects to have a proposal to present to the Board of Regents.
Regent McGowan expressed a desire for the Regents to move to the same
location as the president.
Report on Housing Facilities
Vice President Hartford commented that this discussion on housing
facilities would be one of several discussions intended to give the Regents
background to enable them to make informed decisions on major issues that
will be arising in the future. Future discussions will focus on fiscal issues,
such as privatization and cost containment efforts; and occupancy issues,
including the philosophy used for making residence hall assignments, the
minimum acceptable square footage per student, and staffing issues. Benchmarking information will be presented as appropriate.
Vice President Hartford distributed a publication containing facts about
University Housing ("University Housing Fact Kit") and a handout entitled
"Capital Improvements and Facility Renewal" to which she referred for the
remainder of her presentation. She noted that the implementation of the
infrastructure renewal fee has begun to have an effect on the maintenance of
the buildings supported by the General Fund, and that the Campaign for
Michigan has been identified as a means for building new facilities. However,
the Housing Division has not been a recipient of either of these sources of
revenue because it is considered an auxiliary enterprise, which by definition is
to be self-sustaining.
She reported that the Housing operation includes about 4.2 million square
feet of space, which represents about 18 percent of the total University
building space. About $6.5 million per year is allocated to facilities renewal
(1.65 percent of the value of the facilities), including $1 million for furniture.
Industry-wide standards dictate that the renewal budget should be within a
range of 2 percent to 4 percent of the replacement value, depending on the
age of the facilities. For the University of Michigan, this range would be
from $7,860,000 to $15,720,000. The University has requested corresponding
information from eight peer institutions; this data is as yet incomplete.
Vice President Hartford observed that the renewal funds only go toward
keeping the buildings in their current state; they do not address possible
changes that might be made in the use of the space to improve the living/
learning environment. The average age of the residence halls is 39 years; she
noted that these facilities are among the most heavily used on campus. She
also pointed out that construction costs are higher in Ann Arbor than in all
but two other Big Ten cities. She noted that student preferences for lower
density would lead to a reduction in the overall revenue potential in Housing.


292




April Meeting, 1997


In addition, room and board rates cannot be continually increased as a
means of generating funds for improvements in housing facilities.
Vice President Hartford concluded by noting that there are several
possible sources for building renewal: internal cost containment efforts;
budgeted renewal funds; room and board rates; and central University funds,
such as the infrastructure renewal funds.
President Bollinger emphasized that this is only the first of what is
intended to be a continuing, open series of discussions about housing issues,
and opened up the floor for questions.
Regent Newman expressed that she was interested in issues involving
benchmarking and privatization. She also stated that she would like to have
private institutions included in comparison figures. She is interested in
seeing data that demonstrates "why we're getting the best value for the
dollar, and if we're not, where we can get it." She commented that "What I'm
looking for are ways to maintain, improve, or construct new facilities-do
whatever we need to do-on a basis that makes sense from a cost standpoint."
As yet, comparative figures that would allow such an evaluation have not
been obtained.
Vice President Hartford responded that it makes the most sense to use
comparative figures from public institutions, because private institutions do
not compare in size to the University of Michigan.  Regent Newman
emphasized that "we also need to look at innovative things that other
campuses have done or that private industry has done, and compare and
contrast what works for us."
In response to a question from Regent Deitch, Vice President Hartford
stated that surveys have been done of student satisfaction with residence
halls and she would provide that information to the Regents. Regent Deitch
noted that we compete with private universities and that overcrowded
residence halls may not be conducive to good learning and growth experiences.
He believes that improvements are needed in this area, and that innovative
solutions are called for.
Vice President Hartford observed that another issue is how the residence
halls fit into the larger community picture. Discussion is needed about whom
the halls are meant to serve, how students' needs vary as they progress
through the University, and how the residence halls can accommodate those
needs.
President Bollinger observed that the first step in addressing all of these
issues is to gather data, and this discussion is a first attempt at that. He
noted that nearly all major institutions around the country, public and
private, have overcrowded residence halls.
Regent Deitch commented that he doesn't accept that argument.
President Bollinger agreed, but noted his point was only that Michigan was
not unusual in its residence hall situation.
Regent Power called attention to the financial aspects of University
housing, asking why Housing is viewed as a self-contained entity within the
293




April Meeting, 1997


institution rather than as one that pervades every aspect of student life.
Consideration ought to be given to the "basic institutional and financial
arrangements under which housing has been run" for many years at the
University.
Vice President Hartford responded that at Michigan and many other
institutions, General Fund support for housing has been gradually reduced
and then cut entirely, turning the operation into an auxiliary enterprise.
Regent Power pointed out that perhaps looking at the subject of housing in
an entirely different way, rather than as isolated from the rest of the
concerns of the institution, will be beneficial.
Regent Newman observed that she had been hoping that this presentation
would have contained more detailed information, noting that room and board
is a substantial portion of the financial aspect of attending the University.
Following some discussion about plans for upcoming presentations, Vice
President Hartford said that she could present the financial and occupancy
information together.
Regent Deitch stated that he believes the residence halls are "too
crowded and too expensive," and that the crowded conditions run at
cross-purposes to the University's educational mission. Strategies need to be
identified to address this and the whole totality of issues related to it, and it
is time to move forward.
Regent Horning agreed that now is the time to face these issues and
develop strategies to deal with them.
Regent Newman urged that staff should think "out of the box," using
creativity to come up with unique solutions rather than pursue what other
institutions have done.
Regent Taylor added that it will be important to see benchmarking data
based on square footage and costs, along with a vision of what the ideal
would be.
Vice President Hartford observed that it has been difficult to obtain this
information from other institutions, because it has not traditionally been
compiled in the field of higher education.
Michigan Student Assembly Biannual Report
Ms. Fiona Rose, outgoing president of Michigan Student Assembly
(MSA), addressed the Regents about MSA's accomplishments during her
tenure and about issues that are important to students. Among these are
high tuition costs and the need for increased grant and scholarship support
for poor students; the concerns of student parents; the need for faculty to
teach as well as do research; and the increasing size of the freshman class,
which directly impacts the quality of student life.
Following her remarks, the Regents expressed their admiration for Ms.
Rose's accomplishments during her tenure as MSA president.


294




April Meeting, 1997


Vice President Hartford then introduced Mr. Michael Nagrant, newly
elected president of MSA. Mr. Nagrant addressed the Regents about the
need to keep tuition increases to a minimum; to include the "student voice"
in decision-making; to establish an ex officio position for a student regent;
and to increase funding for student groups. He urged the Regents to
continue the partnership that has been developed with MSA to continue to
improve student life on campus.
Executive Session Motion
President Bollinger noted that Public Comments would be held at 4:00
p.m. in the Michigan Union, following the executive session.
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(c), 8(e), and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act,
as amended by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board
of Regents meet in closed session on April 17, 1997, in the Regents'
Room, for the following purposes: conducting strategy and negotiation
sessions connected with the negotiation of a collective bargaining
agreement in which either negotiating party has requested a closed
hearing [Sec. 8(c)]; consulting with the Board's attorney regarding
trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending
litigation [Sec. 8(e)]; and considering material exempt from discussion
or disclosure by state or federal statute [Section 8(h)]. Such exempt
material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
There followed a short recess, after which the meeting continued in
executive session from 2:15-4:00 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened in the Kuenzel Room, Michigan Union, and
heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Elaine
Simms, co-chair, Commission for Women, on proposed benefits redesign at
the University of Michigan Medical Center; John Farley, staff member and
Frank Williams, chief steward of UM skilled trades unions, about problems
caused by budget reductions at the Medical Center; Michael A. Edwards,
president, and Elaine McDaniels, bargaining chair of AFSCME 1583, about
concerns with the UMH Laundry Services labor contract; Donald H. Gray,
faculty member, Robert Oppenheimer, citizen, Ronald Holzhacker, student,
and David R. Bassett, emeritus faculty member, about use of the Arboretum
for ROTC training; Audrey Jackson, citizen, about hate speech and racial
intolerance; Paul Marquardt, faculty, about issues regarding the
non-reappointment of visiting and adjunct faculty members; Saboorah
Amatu-Rahmann, citizen, about the "Naked Mile" and the sculpture on the
corner of Glen and Catherine Streets; Jonathan Kazmierski and Angie
Farley, students, about campus planning issues; and Wayne Wolberg,
student, about critical issues facing Latino students.
The meeting then recessed until the following day.


295




April Meeting, 1997


Friday, April 18, 1997
The Regents met at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice
President Matthews, Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick,
and Secretary Palmer. Vice President Kinnear was absent.
Honorary Degrees
President Bollinger announced that the Honorary Degree Committee
has recommended that honorary degrees be awarded to the following
individuals: Mary Frances Berry, chair of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights
(Doctor of Laws); Robert B. Fiske, Jr., noted trial lawyer (Doctor of Laws);
Sergei Godunov, renowned mathematician (Doctor of Science); and Eugene
Roberts, managing editor of the New York Times (Doctor of Laws). These
degrees are to be awarded at the Spring 1997 Commencement.
Commencement speaker. On behalf of the Regents, Regent Power
invited President Bollinger to give the commencement address at the Spring
1997 commencement, noting that this would be the first commencement
during the first year of his presidency. President Bollinger responded that
he was honored to be asked and would be pleased to accept.
Regent Power moved that honorary degrees be awarded to Mary
Frances Berry, Robert B. Fiske, Jr., Sergei Godunov, and Eugene Roberts.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Donald H. Postema
Regent Deitch offered the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate the
Reverend Dr. Donald H. Postema on his retirement as pastor of the
Christian Reformed Campus Chapel. For more than three decades,
Dr. Postema has ministered to thousands of University students,
faculty members, and staff and has served as a persuasive advocate for
social justice, the contemplative life, and the arts. His message has
always been one of hope.
Dr. Postema, a graduate of Calvin College, Calvin Theological
Seminary, and the Free University of Amsterdam, began his pastoral
duties in 1963. He is only the second pastor to serve the Campus
Chapel in its 57-year history.
Deeply rooted in his own faith, Dr. Postema reaches out to others
from a wide range of religious traditions. A wise and compassionate
counselor, he has mentored many of his colleagues in campus ministry
and currently chairs the University's Council for Ethical, Religious,
and Spiritual Dialogue, which advises the vice president for student


296




April Meeting, 1997


affairs. He has raised funds for Michigan's '"Visiting Professor of
Religious Thought" program and has served several terms as
president of the Association of Religious Counselors and as president
of the Christian Association of Psychological Studies.
Throughout his ministry, Dr. Postema has been active in the
Ann Arbor community. Under his leadership, the Campus Chapel
co-founded the Ark coffee house in 1965 and also has provided food
and shelter to Ann Arbor's homeless.
In gratitude for the many ways Dr. Postema has contributed to
the spiritual and intellectual life of the University, the Regents of the
University of Michigan extend their heartfelt thanks and best wishes to
Donald H. Postema upon his retirement as pastor of the Campus
Chapel.
The resolution was adopted by acclamation, after which Dr. Postema
expressed his gratitude to the Regents for having had the opportunity to
serve as pastor of the Campus Chapel and for the honor of the resolution.
Provost Machen: General Remarks
Provost Machen distributed copies of an article from the Wall Street
Journal announcing that Professor Ned Gramlich, dean of the School of Public
Policy, was to be nominated to the Federal Reserve Board. Confirmation of
the appointment would require that Dean Gramlich resign his position as
dean, but it is a great honor for Dean Gramlich and for the University.
Provost Machen also introduced Ms. Pamela W. Fowler, new director of
the Office of the Financial Aid.
University of Michigan Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report
President Bollinger announced that the Comparative Statistic Report,
which had originally been scheduled to be presented at this meeting, has
been withdrawn and will be presented at the May meeting.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power moved that the Regents resume the executive session
which had been recessed the previous day. Regent McFee seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously. The executive session resumed at
9:55 a.m.
Public Meeting
The public meeting resumed at 11:30 p.m. Regent Deitch was absent for
the remainder of the meeting; Regent Newman was away from the table, and
Provost Simpson attended in the stead of Chancellor Renick.
Repatriation of Native American Materials
President Bollinger called on Vice President Neidhardt, who noted that
when the Native American Grave Protection and Repatriation Act
(NAGPRA) was passed in 1992, the University was required to take a


297




April Meeting, 1997


number of steps in order to comply with the dictates of the act. He noted
that in November 1993 the Board of Regents had pre-approved repatriation
of Native American burial remains, grave goods, sacred objects, and objects
of cultural patrimony when culturally affiliated Native American groups
requested them.   He called on Professor John O'Shea, professor of
anthropology, director of the Museum of Anthropology and curator of Great
Lakes archaeology within the Museum of Anthropology, who has been in
charge of the University's efforts to comply with NAGPRA.
Professor O'Shea reviewed the University's response to the act since it
was passed in 1992, noting that the University has committed almost
$500,000 to do the compliance work, which includes an inventory of all
Native American artifacts held by the University. He noted that when the
Regents had pre-approved the repatriation process where cultural affiliation
could be established, they had also recognized that claims would be made
that the University would not be able to uphold because they do not meet the
criteria of cultural affiliation.
The inventory resulted in the identification of 35 sites and 354
ethnographic specimens that were culturally affiliated under the standards of
the law, and negotiations are being carried out with 38 federally-recognized
tribes. He noted that the University made the determinations of cultural
affiliation and notified the tribes in 1993, two years ahead of the
federally-mandated deadline. The final inventory, which primarily includes
unaffiliated remains, was submitted on time in November of 1995, making
the University of Michigan one of the few major institutions that completed
the work on time.
The remainder of the work, for which there is no statute of limitations,
will involve responding to requests for information and repatriation claims.
Professor O'Shea distributed information related to an outstanding claim
from Emmet County, Michigan. It has been determined that the Little
Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians were the most likely affiliated people,
and plans are being made to proceed with the repatriation.
The University has received one repatriation request involving a site in
Ontario, Canada. Vice President Neidhardt reported that his office has
advised the president and executive officers that this request cannot be
complied with because there is significant doubt about the cultural affiliation
of the materials in question to the group that has requested it (Whitefish
River First Nation). In addition, because NAGPRA does not apply outside of
the United States and there is no established framework to govern these
negotiations, the Canadian government would have to become involved. It is
understood that Canadian authorities do not wish to repatriate, nor do they
recognize the tribe's claims to the materials.
Regent Power expressed admiration for the University's diligence in
complying with the terms of NAGPRA and for the sensitivity with which
those responsible have carried out this task.
Regent Newman returned to the table at this point (11:50 a.m.).


298




April Meeting, 1997


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the meeting of
March 13-14, 1997.
Reports. Interim Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the
following reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor
Relations, and a quarterly Report on Noncompetitive Purchases over $5,000.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted Summaries of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects and Projects Established. The Faculty Governance Update
was submitted.
Provost Machen noted that this would be the last Regents' Meeting that
Professor Thomas Dunn would be attending in his role as chair of SACUA.
The Regents acknowledged his service with a round of applause.
Voluntary Support. The Report of Voluntary Support was submitted
to the Regents.
Alcan Rolled Products Company, Oswego, New York
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.. $ 7,500
American Axle & Manufacturing, Detroit
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 5,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts... 98,568
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center, School of Business Administration... 302,756
Anonymous Donor
3,220 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for the Frances Willson Thompson Library, University of Michigan-Flint.... 193,401
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  6,700
Autism Society of America, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
John S. Bandfield, Clearwater, Florida
for the John S. and Katherine J. Bandfield Student Loan Fund in the
School of Business Administration......................................  25,000
Olivet Beckwith Estate
for scholarships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies....... 25,000
Alfred Berkowitz Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of
Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Art Gallery at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 60,000
Philip C. and Sara D. Berry Account of the Ernst & Young Foundation,
Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University of Michigan Club of Cleveland Scholarship and the
University  M usical Society..............................................  5,000
Brian L. Bilzin, Miami, Florida
for the Bilzin Student Travel Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts.................................................  9,572
Bosch Braking Systems Corporation, South Bend, Indiana
for mechanical engineering support in the College of Engineering........... 6,000
Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, Massachusetts
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School................. 5,000
Mrs. Thomas R. Boyd, Pleasant Ridge
for the Shirley Rodman Williams and Peggy Rodman Boyd Fellowship
in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender................. 5,000
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn....................................            10,000
BTE Associates, Farmington Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 5,000


299




April Meeting, 1997


Dana L. Buntrock, Chicago, Illinois
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning.............................................     5,000
CaP Cure, Beverly Hills, California
for research in the Medical School.............................  100,000
Janet E. Cassebaum, Mount Bethel, Pennsylvania
675 shares of MBNA Corporation and
634 shares of Summit Bancorp common stocks and a cash gift
for the Milton G. and Josephine Kendrick Marketing Award in the School
of Business Administration, for the Janet and William Cassebaum Award
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Hill
Auditorium Restoration Fund and the Museum of Art.................... 58,064
Centerior Energy Community Program, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts....................................................  5,090
Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 150,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.......................... 300,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the IMAP Program and the Magna International Office of
Entrepreneurial Studies in the School of Business Administration........... 40,000
Comerica Bank, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn... 20,000
Graham H. Conger Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 18,000
Cooper Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 11,000
Ralph Crump, Trumbull, Connecticut
4,100 shares of Stratsys, Inc., common stock
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn.................................................  75,850
Gilbert A. Currie, Scottsdale, Arizona
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Millie Schembechler
Memorial Fund in the Medical School, and for support of the Law School...... 6,250
James L. Curtis, Jamaica, New York
6,745 shares of American Balanced mutual fund
for the James L. and Vivian A. Curtis Fund in the School of Music.......... 101,647
Jenny Lee Davis, Pontiac
100 shares of Travelers Group common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,219
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................   5,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 15,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry. 10,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts........... 7,460
John Douglas Alzheimer's Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Louise Madsen Memorial Fund in the Medical School................ 6,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Frances Willson Thompson Library Acquisition Fund at the
University  of Michigan-Flint............................................  5,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration............................................  15,000
Edgemere Enterprises, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Fre erick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment.......... 10,000
John M. Evans, Northville
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn....................................................  5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering, for the University Musical
Society and for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair
Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................. 128,150


300




April Meeting, 1997


Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for minority fellowships and other support in the School of Public Policy..... 30,160
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 20,000
Gassin Family Foundation, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Gassin Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................ 15,000
General Electric Company, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration............................................. 15,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute... 15,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for support in the College of Engineering for the General Motors
Research Fellow Funds in the Medical School and for the Reunion of
Black Graduates Fund in the Alumni Association........................ 211,000
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship..................................  7,000
General Signal Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 50,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Faculty Development Fund
in the College of Engineering.........................................  26,000
Mark Gilman, La Habra, California
for the neurology research in the Medical School......................... 100,000
Melvin Gilman Whittier, California
for neurology research in the Medical School............................. 25,000
Ginsberg 1995 Charitable Trust
for the Victor and Frances Ginsberg Endowed Scholarship, Medical School... 240,000
Robert C. Graham, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering... 10,000
Grand Rapids Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the School of Social Work................................  116,028
Virginia H. Harlow, Midland
2,500 shares of Dow Chemical Company and 400 shares of IBM common stocks
for the Virginia H. Harlow Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Medical School..................................  260,888
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
for WUOM/WVGR.................................................. 5,000
Frank Harrigan Trust
for the  ichigan Memorial Phoenix Gift Fund............................ 86,000
General James K. Herbert Foundation, Lindsay, California
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  20,000
Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  25,000
Emmelene A. Hornac Trust
for undergraduate  student aid..........................................  50,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 7,500
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
100 shares of E.I. du Pont de Nemours common stock
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund in the
School of Nursing....................................................  11,100
Janssen Pharmaceutical Research Foundation, Titusville, New Jersey
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund
in the Medic School................................................. 50,000
William A. Jenkins, Brookfield, Wisconsin
for the William A. and Alice Jenkins Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn....................................................  7,544
JPE, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  6,250
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School....................................  15,000
Cis Maisel Kellman Trust
12,592 shares of various common stocks
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Medical School.............. 506,981
301




April Meeting, 1997


Bertha M. Kiel Estate
for endowment support in the School of Education, and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 20,000
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
for the Lindenauer Vascular Research and Education Award Fund
in the Medical School.................................................. 5,000
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, DC
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School...................... 8,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.        100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work................................. 30,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Yost Arena RenovationFund in the Department of Athletics......... 333334
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Manoogian Professorship in Modern Armenian History and
the Marie Manoogian Professorship in Armenian Language and
Literature in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 200,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts........... 5,500
McKinsey & Company, Inc., New York
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute... 7,500
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 17,200
Mexican Town Restaurant, Inc., Detroit
for the Retinoschisis Research Fund in the Medical School.................. 24,703
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute, and
for the University Musical Society......................................  16,000
C. Barry Montgomery, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research  in the Medical School......................................  18,750
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,570
Stuart C. Nathan, Chicago, llinois
for the Jo Ann and Stuart C. Nathan C.E.M. Initiative Fund in the
Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment... 50,000
NBD Bancorp, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  9,300
Newman Famiy Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in Physical Medicine
and the Dejong Symposium in the Medical School......................... 15,100
Ronald P. Nordgren, Houston, Texas
300 shares of Royal Dutch Petroleum common stock and a cash gift
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Research Funds in
the Medical School..................................................  81,956
Nortel, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration.. 15,000
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for the Crystallography Facility in the Biophysics Research Division.......... 6,000
Oberkotter Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.............................. 250,000
Oral Health America, Chicago Illinois
for support in the School of Dentistry..................................  14,675
Oralife Group, Inc., Toronto, Ontario, Canada
for the Antimicrobial Research Fund in the School of Dentistry............. 75,000
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals, Inc., Columbia, Missouri
for research in the Medical School...................................... 18,750
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 25,000
Paideia Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 6,250
Pall Corporation, East Hills, New York
for the Pharmacology-Cardiovascular Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  25,000
302




April Meeting, 1997


Jorge M. Perez, Miami, Florida
for the Jorge M. Perez Urban Planning Fellowship in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning.......................................  10,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................... 6,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation Research Professorship in
Biostatistics in the School of Public Health, for the Pharmacia &
Upjohn Leadership Awards in the Medical School; for the Pharmacia
& Upjohn CEMP Interdisciplinary Faculty Research Fund and
the Pharmacia & Upjohn CEMP Graduate Fellowship Endowment
in the School of Business Administration; and for employee matching gifts... 318,498
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Scholarship in Accounting, School of Business
A dm inistration........................................................  5,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Arati Sharangpani Memorial Fund................................ 5,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
162 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for support in the School of Education...................................  10,014
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 13,400
Margaret Roll Trust
for the Lyle C. Roll Fund in the Medical School........................... 23,889
James F. And Betty Hamady Sams, Bethesda, Maryland
6,750 shares of MBNA Corporation common stock
for the James and Betty Sams Dean's Fund in the Law School............. 224,860
Francesanna Sargent, Saginaw
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Nancy Dolan Schrank, Pepper Pike, Ohio
140 shares of Comerlca, Inc., common stock
for the Schrank Family Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  8,033
Jean Whittemore Sharp, South Bend, Indiana
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center, School of Natural Resources
and Environment..................................................... 5,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
3,200 shares of Patriot American Hospitality common stock
for the Donald R. Shepherd Charitabre Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics.................... 167,200
Forrest W. Simmons, Portland, Oregon
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Judy W. Soley, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Steeplechase Software, Inc., Ann Arbor
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration............ 8,694
Stephen and Sybil Stone Foundation, Wareham, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Michael E. Thoyer, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 12,500
Toray Industries (America), Inc., New York, New York
for the Materials Science & Engineering Undergraduate Laboratories
in  the  College of Engineering..........................................  20,000
R. J. Tower Corporation, Greenville
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  5,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
University of Michigan Band Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Band Alumni Fund in the School of Music.................. 5,200
Robert J. Vlasic, Juno Beach, Florida
for the Robert J. Vlasic Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 250,000
Margaret Warner, Frankenmuth
620 shares of Dow Chemical common stock
for the building fund in the School of Social Work......................... 50,801


303




April Meeting, 1997


Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Pharmacology Research and Education Fund in the
Medical School, andfor research in the College of Pharmacy................ 20,000
Walter J. Weber, Jr Ann Arbor
4,450 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Walter J., Jr. and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship in
the College of Engineering............................................  192,009
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  7,750
Janette F. Williams, Ann Arbor
488 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Pediactric Hematology Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  29,189
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................ 27,710
Marian E. Wright, Flint
820 shares of Templeton Growth Fund common stock
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 16,687
Richard A. Yarmain, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for  the  M en's  Glee  Club................................................  5,100
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Patricia T. Cross, Ann Arbor
two books for the Clements Library
John C. Dann, Dexter
419 documents and 75 items of Americana, for the Clements Library
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
architectural plans for the Clements Library
Peter L. Duren, Ann Arbor
57 volumes of various mathematics journals for the Department of Mathematics
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
a Gateway cpu with a Dell monitor and other various equipment for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, School of Management
Adele M. Garren, Tulsa, Oklahoma
81 books, seven various serial titles, an 1847 map of Norwalk and a portrait of Mary
Ball Washington for the Clements Library
Clifford H. Hart, Flint
one half the value of office and library furniture, for the University of Michigan-Flint
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
three pentium workstations, for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
William A. Lewis, Ann Arbor
a collection of American newspaper headlines for the Clements Library
Lydia E. Maguire, Detroit
a W & W VENUS harp with a music stand and stool for the School of Music
Ann Mikolowski, Ann Arbor
various items of historical literary and artistic significance for the Special Collections
Library
Parr Media, Davison
various equipment for the Department of Communications
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
laser heads and accessories for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Melvin J. Reinhart, Ann Arbor
139 psychology books for the Department of Psychology Library
Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York
three color World War I posters and two manuscript letters for the Clements Library
Ralph R. Rupp, Ann Arbor
38 pieces of art work by Carl Schlickum for the Museum of Art
Robert L. Segar, Flint
one half the value of office and library furniture for the University of Michigan-Flint
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Mountain View, California
four SPARCserver 5 workstations for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
Steven M. Taylor, Huntington Woods
11 pieces of African art, 10 photogravures by Edward Curtis and five prints by Karel
Appel for the Museum of Art


304




April Meeting, 1997


Texas Instruments, Inc., Piano, Texas
composer and Performer software
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Engineering
Tillotson Environmental Occupational Consulting, Lansing
air quality equipment for the Department of Occupational Safety and Environmental
Health
Paul E. Walker, San Leandro, California
16 original photographs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki,Japan before and after the atomic
bombing for the Clements Library
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
two oil paintings, an etching, a lithograph and a pencil drawing for the Clements
Library


Additional gifts ranging from $1
following donors:
Jay Alix, Southfield
John Arthos, Ann Arbor
R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor
William C. Birdsall, Ann Arbor
Richard N. Boonstra, Madison, Ohio
Michael Brown, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Cobblestones Paver & Retaining
Walls, Northville
Harry L. Cross, Ann Arbor
Ann Smith Fowler, Ann Arbor
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor
Bernard M. Goldman, Bloomfield Hills
James Hatfield, Westland
William A. Lewis, Ann Arbor
David Lisicki, Shaker Heights, Ohio
Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
James J. Mitchell, Crown Point, Indiana


to $999 in value were received from the
Robert K. Moore, Linden
Matt Mrasek, Swartz Creek
Jacob M. Price, Ann Arbor
Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor
Sara L. Rappe, Ann Arbor
Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York
Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota
Rosalyn Saltz, Detroit
Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
Arlene P. Shy, Ann Arbor
John D. Speth, Ann Arbor
Frank B. Stone, Summit, New Jersey
Stephen J. Tonsor, Ann Arbor
John D. Wheeler, East Tawas
White Rabbit Toy Store, Ann Arbor
Katherine F. Willis, Ann Arbor
Beth E. Wolf, Ann Arbor
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania


Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports
Provost Machen submitted the following personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Dechow, Patricia M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting
Hines, James R., Jr., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Business Economics
Ismail, Amid I., DR.P.H., Professor of Dentistry, June 1, 1997
Sloan, Richard G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting
Torous, Walter N., P.h.D., Professor of Finance
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on January 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Dlugosz, Andrzej A., M.D., Associate Professor of Dermatology, July 1, 1997
Songer, Nancy B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education
Wilson, Mark L., Sc.D., Associate Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health


305




April Meeting, 1997


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Taylor, B. Alan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Mathematics, reappointed Chair, Department of Mathematics, August 1, 1998
Teeri, James A., Professor of Biology, with tenure, Director, Botanical Gardens, and
Director, Biological Station, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, reappointed
Director, Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term,
September 1, 1997
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective April 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Carson, Paul L., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Francis, Anthony H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
also appointed Associate Dean for Research, Computing, and Facilities, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, three-year term, July 1, 1997
Jenkins, Janice M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Kohn, David H., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also
appointed Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering
Mead, David W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, without
tenure
Rauch, Jeffrey B., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair,
Department of Mathematics, one-year term, August 1, 1997
Schork, Michael A., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, three-year term, June 1, 1997
Smith, Richard C., Assistant Professor of History, also appointed, Director, Program in
American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, three-year term,
July 1, 1997
Wang, Henry Y., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Whallon, Robert E., Jr., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of
Mediterranean Prehistory, also appointed Director, Museum of Anthropology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term, September 1, 1997
Yang, Wen-Jei, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Zuiderweg, Erik R. P., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed, Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure, governmental service leave, April 4, 1997-April 3, 1998
Lockery, Shirley A., Assistant Professor of Social Work, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Veltman, Martinus J., John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics, duty-off-campus,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997


306




April Meeting, 1997


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Daniels, Tony G., M.S., Chair, Air Force Officer Education Program, three-year term,
May 31, 1997
Gordon, Roger H., Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Reuben Kempf
Professor of Economics, July 1, 1997
Kunkel, Steven L., Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Programs and Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical
School, also appointed the Pathology Research Endowed Professor, Medical School,
five-year term, June 1, 1997
Lucier, Christopher, M.A., Chair, Army Officer Education Program, three-year term,
May 15, 1997
McNamara, Carole C., B.A., Interim Director, Museum of Art, May 1, 1997
Sinta, Donald J., Professor of Music (Saxophone), with tenure, also appointed the Earl V.
Moore Professor of Music, five-year term, September 1, 1997
William Wilhartz Assistant Professorship. The Regents approved
the establishment of the William Wilhartz Assistant Professorship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective April 1, 1997.
M. R. Abell Professorship in Surgical Pathology. The Regents
approved the establishment of the M. R. Abell Professorship in Surgical
Pathology in the Medical School, effective April 18, 1997.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Gelman, Susan A., September 1, 1997-August 31, 2000, vice James S. Jackson, term expired
Montgomery, Hugh L., September 1, 1997-August 31, 2000, vice Philip J. Hanlon, term expired
Pollack, Henry N., September 1, 1997-December 31, 1997, vice Kathryn W. Tosney,
sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Golder, Daniel T., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, May 1, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Greenwood, Jennifer L., B.A., Lecturer II in Biology
Hamze, Samara I., B.A., Lecturer II in Biology
Loncar, Michael G., B.A., Lecturer in English, January 1, 1997
Rier, Steven T., M.S., Lecturer II in Biology
Thomas, David W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, September 1, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Smith, Beverly A., M.A.., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, September 1, 1997


307




April Meeting, 1997


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Closser, Mary H., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Psychiatry, January 1, 1997
Nicholson, Jane M., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Obstetrics and
Gynecology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, March 1, 1997
Roth, Randy S., from Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Lecturer in
Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation and Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, July 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996-December 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Olving, Gerhard, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1997 -June 30, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bauland, Peter M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
extended sick leave, January 23-May 31, 1997
Curtis, M. David, Professor of Chemistry and Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Heirich, Jane R., Lecturer III in Music, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1997
Hook, Peter E., Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of
Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Ito, Ken K., Associate Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off
campus
Kister, James M., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 1997
Meiland, Jack W., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, extended sick leave, March 1 -May 31, 1997
Sharf, Robert H., Associate Professor of Buddhist Studies, with tenure, duty off campus
Wingrove, Elizabeth R., Assistant Professor of Political Science, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1997
Medical School
McShan, Daniel L., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1997
Terrell, Linda B., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, leave without salary,
December 11, 1996-March 17, 1997
School of Music
Lewis, Ralph B., Professor of Music (Theory), retirement furlough, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
College of Pharmacy
Stumpf, Janice L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, extended sick leave,
January 26-February 16, 1997, and leave without salary, March 28-July 1, 1997
School of Social Work
Kossoudji, Sherrie A., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997


308




April Meeting, 1997


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Provost, Consuela M., Professor of English and Theatre, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 23-March 3, 1997
CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cloyd, Emily L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
extended sick leave, September 24, 1996-May 31, 1997 (Previously reported as
September 24-December 31, 1996)
School of Art and Design
Hinton, Alfred F., Professor of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 17, 1996 -May 31,1997 (previously reported as September 17-December 2, 1996)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on May 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hoffman, Lois W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired
Lenaghan, Robert T., Professor of English, with tenure, retired
Pant, Vijay, Lecturer II in Mathematics, resigned, December 31, 1996
Schwartz, Art J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retired
Starostin, Sergei A., Lecturer II in Slavic Linguistics, term complete, December 31, 1996
Veroff, Joseph, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired
Zwiep, Mary N., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, resigned, December 31, 1996
Medical School
Suchard, Suzanne J., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without
tenure, resigned, March 7, 1997
School of Music
Lehman, Paul R., Professor of Music, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1997
McDaniel, Lorna A., Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), without
tenure, resigned
Watkins, Glenn E., Earl V. Moore Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), without
tenure, resigned
CANCELLATION OF
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Porter, James I., Associate Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, leave
extension cancelled, previously reported as September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted three retirement
memoirs.


309




April Meeting, 1997


Robert L. Ellison, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 1997.
Dr. Ellison received his D.D.S. degree in 1960 from Meharry Medical
College and his M.Sc. degree in oral pathology in 1975 from the School of
Dental Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. He has been a Diplomat
of the American Board of Endodontics since 1965. Dr. Ellison joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan as an associate professor in 1971 and
was promoted to professor in 1979.
Known for his dedication to teaching, Dr. Ellison has served as a member
of over 30 master's thesis committees throughout his tenure in the School of
Dentistry. He has been course director for several undergraduate and graduate
courses in endodontics. He has presented numerous lectures on endodontics to
professional organizations both nationally and internationally. Dr. Ellison has
served the school through membership on a number of committees, including
the Appointments, Promotions, and Tenure Committee, the Admissions
Committee, and the Executive Committee. His publication record includes
over 30 articles, and he is coauthor of four clinic manuals used in the dental
curriculum. He is currently involved in research which will lead to his writing
a book on distinguished African American educators and outstanding
contributions of African Americans to the dental profession.
Dr. Ellison is a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon and Kappa Sigma Pi
honor societies. He is a member of numerous local, state, and national
professional societies, and has served both the Wolverine Dental Society and
the Detroit District Dental Society in several capacities, including president.
He has also served on the Endodontics Programs Accreditation Commission
for the American Dental Association, as a volunteer special lecturer for the
American Cancer Society, and as an editorial consultant or board member to
several journals.
The Regents now salute his distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Robert L. Ellison professor emeritus of dentistry.
Gayl D. Ness, professor of sociology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and professor of population planning and international
health in the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1996.
Professor Ness received his B.A. (1952) and Ph.D. (1961) degrees in
sociology from the University of California at Berkeley. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of sociology in 1964. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1966 and professor in 1972 and.
received his appointment in the School of Public Health in 1979.
Professor Ness has a distinguished record in elucidating the relationships
between population and development, and he has been a pioneer in studying
the relations between population and the environment. As director of the
Population-Environment Dynamics Project and as the key force in the Global
Change Project, he has produced important research results himself and has
drawn numerous other faculty members and students into his field. The solid
foundation of his research on southeast Asia has led to consideration of
questions that are key in all parts of the developing and developed world.
In addition to his scholarly accomplishments, Professor Ness has been
active in faculty governance, culminating in his service as chair of SACUA in


310




April Meeting, 1997


1989-90. Professor Ness has given outstanding service to the University, the
Department of Sociology, the School of Public Health, and the PopulationEnvironment Project. Each unit has benefited from his exceptional insight
and commitment to excellence, interdisciplinary work, and the integration of
scientific and policy concerns.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Gayl D. Ness
professor emeritus of sociology and professor emeritus of population
planning and international health.
James A. Taren, M.D., professor of surgery, retired from active faculty
status on March 31, 1997, after a highly-productive career as a teacher,
clinician, and researcher.
A native of Toledo, Ohio, Dr. Taren served with distinction with the U.S.
Marine Corps in the Pacific Theater from 1943-46. He received his B.S. degree
from the University of Toledo in 1948 and his M.D. degree from the
University of Michigan Medical School in 1952. He served his internship and
residency at the University of Michigan Medical Center in surgery and in
neurosurgery from 1952-55 and then undertook additional training in Boston
and at the University of Michigan from 1955-57. Dr. Taren joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1957 as an instructor in the Medical School,
Department of Surgery, Section of Neurosurgery. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1958, associate professor in 1963, and professor of
surgery in 1969. Dr. Taren also served with distinction as associate dean for
academic programs from 1978-87, after which he returned to full-time clinical
activities. He also was director of the Office of Integration of Information and
Computer Technology for the Medical Campus from 1988-1989.
Dr. Taren was a member of many professional societies during his career
and was an officer in several. His research activities focused on the problem
of chronic intractable pain, on obsessive-compulsive disorders, and on
Parkinson's disease. He authored fifty-three articles in peer-reviewed journals,
in addition to coauthoring two neurosurgical textbooks and seventeen book
chapters.
Dr. Taren's career was marked by innovative approaches to difficult
neurosurgical problems. He is known for his expertise in the management of
chronic intractable pain states and the control of involuntary movement
disorders, including those seen in Parkinsonism and spasticity.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming James A. Taren professor emeritus of surgery.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Secretary Palmer and Provost Machen submitted the Law
School's December 1996 final degree; the May 1997 Doctoral Degree List;
and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Purchasing Contract with CMS Technologies
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a purchasing contract with CMS


311




April Meeting, 1997


Technologies. Because a University employee, Marshall Cummings, also
holds a 29 percent stockholder's interest in CMS Technologies, this contract
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the
University of Michigan and CMS Technologies.
2.  The terms of the contract are to support ISR's need for a security
system of the Institute's computer network, for a total one-time cost
of $2,433.36, deliverable in total by April 30, 1998.
3.  Mr. Marshall's pecuniary interest arises from his financial interest in
CMS Technologies, as a stockholder.
Research Agreement with Tal Materials, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a research agreement between the
University of Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc. ("Tal") to enter into a subcontract under its Small Business Innovative Research Phase I project.
Because two University faculty members, Richard Laine and David R.
Treadwell, are also officers and employees of Tal, and another University
employee, Dr. Anthony Surik, is likely also to become a part-time employee
of Tal soon, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Tal
Materials, Inc.
2.  Terms of the agreement will be consistent with University policy
regarding research subcontracts. Intellectual property rights will be
governed by the terms of the research agreement. The research
project is proposed over a six month period at a total cost of $7,999.
The budget does not include indirect cost, since this is an SBIR
Phase I project.
3.  Drs. Laine and Treadwell will receive direct compensation from Tal
but will not have a portion of their University effort supported by
this research project. Dr. Surik will be supported by the subcontract
but will receive no compensation for this project through Tal. Dr.
Albert Yee will be technically and fiscally responsible for the conduct
of the subcontract.
Small-Capitalization Common Stock Manager
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Qualivest Asset Management as a small-capitalization common stock investment manager.
Lowe, Brockenbrough, & Tattersall Strategic Advisors, Inc.
The Regents were informed that permission has been given to Lowe,
Brockenbrough & Tattersall Strategic Advisors, Inc. (LB&T), which is an
intermediate duration fixed-income manager for the Long Term Portfolio, to


312




April Meeting, 1997


invest a portion of the University's portfolio in closed-end bond funds,
including term trusts, as described in the Regents Communication.
Report of Sale of University-Owned Real Estate
Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents of details of
the transactions concerning the previously-approved sale of three Universityowned parcels of real estate: Shady Trails Camp; Camp Filibert Roth; and
7.26 acres in Putnam Township, Livingston County, Michigan; as described
in the Regents Communication.
Regarding the Shady Trails Camp transaction, Regent McGowan
commented that she appreciated the respect and sensitivity that was shown
to Ms. Marie Clancy Hagerman, the daughter of the camp's founder, in
allocating the benefits that accrue to the University from the sale of that
land.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: Administrative
Services Building renovation; replacement of a unit substation in the School
of Education Building; retrofitting of the existing lighting in the School of
Public Health II Building as an energy conservation measure; and
installation of a year-round cooling system in the School of Education and
School of Social Work buildings. Regent Newman was away from the table
when the vote was taken.
University of Michigan-Flint Professional Studies and Classroom
Building
Chancellor Nelms noted that the proposed construction of a new
building on the former AutoWorld site is a change from the original plans
that involved renovating the State Office Building. Completion of this
project will mark the first time that all academic programs will be located at
a common site.
In response to a question from Regent McGowan, Chancellor Nelms
noted that JJR, the University's planning consultant, is currently involved in
updating the Flint Campus master plan to include the AutoWorld site.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the Professional Studies and.:
Classroom Building project and site, and authorization for the appointment
of SSOE, Inc. of Troy, working in association with Manyam and Shull, Inc. of
Flint, as architect for design of the facility. Regent McGowan seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University Pavilion Parking Structure
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for general repairs and
maintenance of the University Pavilion Parking Structure on the Flint
campus, as described in the Regents Communication.


313




April Meeting, 1997


University Acquisition of Equity Interest in NorthMed, Inc. and
in Northern Physicians Organization
Executive Vice President Matthews described this proposal, which has
been recommended by the M-Care Board of Directors and the Michigan
Health Corporation Board of Directors, and for which the details can be
found in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman made the following
motion: That M-Care acquire 8.33 percent of NorthMed, Inc. stock and one
permanent seat on the NorthMed, Inc. Board of Directors for $1.6 million.
Additionally, that the Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) acquire 28,000
shares of Class B stock in Northern Physicians Organization (NPO).
Furthermore, that the M-Care president be named as the University
representative on the NorthMed, Inc. board of directors and that the
executive medical director of the faculty group practice be named as the
University representative on the NPO board of directors. Regent Maynard
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
916 Maiden Lane, Ann Arbor, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved acquisition of the property at 916 Maiden
Lane, Ann Arbor, at a price of $90,000, as described in the Regents
Communication.
1998-99 and 1999-2000 Academic Calendars for UM-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the 1998-99 and 1999-2000 academic
calendars for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, and on
the recommendation of the UM Hospitals executive board, the Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Appeals Under the Michigan Freedom of Information Act
Vice President Harrison commented that as a result of recently enacted
amendments to the Michigan Freedom of Information Act, a new appeals
procedure was created that allows individuals whose FOIA requests have
been denied by the FOIA officer to appeal this decision to the head of the
public body. Regent McFee moved approval of delegating authority to the
president to decide appeals submitted to the University under the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act, in accordance with the procedures outlined in
the Regents Communication.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, but requested that language be
incorporated into the appeals procedure regarding conflict of interest when
the FOIA request pertains to the president or the Board of Regents.
The vote was then taken, and the motion, including Regent Newman's
modification, was approved unanimously.


314




April Meeting, 1997


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:10
p.m. The next meeting is scheduled for May 15-16, 1997. Regents' expenses
for March 1997 totaled $1,349.35.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


315




MAY MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 15, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:15 p.m. in the Johnson Rooms of the Lurie
Engineering Center. Present were President Bollinger and Regents Horning,
Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Power. Also present were
Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison, Vice President Hartford, Vice
President Kinnear, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Renick, and
Secretary Palmer. Regents Deitch and Taylor and Interim Executive Vice
President Matthews were absent. Chancellor Nelms arrived at 2:40 p.m.
Associate Vice President Herbert attended in the stead of Interim Executive
Vice President Matthews. Chancellor Renick left shortly after the start of
the meeting and was replaced by Provost Simpson.
President Bollinger: General Remarks
Faculty Awards. President Bollinger announced that Professors
Jonathan Freedman and Douglas Richstone had received Guggenheim
Fellowships, and that Professor Joyce Marcus had been elected to the
National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences. He noted that University of Michigan faculty have received a total
of 157 Guggenheim Fellowships.
Professor Bollinger also announced that the Cancer and Geriatrics Center
had opened on May 5, 1997, and that a groundbreaking ceremony for Sam
Wyly Hall had been held on May 2nd.
Presentation by Dean Director
Stephen Director, dean of the College of Engineering, gave a presentation
about the College of Engineering, noting that this is a period of change in
which the college has a unique opportunity to reevaluate past decisions and
make strategic choices about future directions. He noted that a major
curriculum change was to be implemented in the fall and reviewed some of
the major accomplishments in research that have recently emerged from
research centers in the college. He noted that the capital campaign had
exceeded its goal, and that future efforts will concentrate on increasing the
number of endowed professorships.
North Campus Master Plan Update
President Bollinger called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, who
gave a presentation reviewing the history of the development of the North
Campus, beginning with acquisition of the land following World War II. He
noted that renowned architect Ero Saarinen had been the University's first
campus planner and had developed the original master plan for the North
Campus. To allow him to design the School of Music, he relinquished his
position at the University and was replaced by the firm of Johnson Johnson
& Roy (JJR) in the 1950s. The last North Campus master plan was developed
317




May Meeting, 1997


by JJR in the mid-1980s. Mr. Mayer concluded his presentation with an
overview of the current status of the development of the North Campus.
Regent Newman inquired whether parking was included as part of
campus planning. She noted that units are often unable to hold conferences
on campus due to lack of parking facilities. Mr. Mayer responded that the
University's Parking Services office can make special arrangements for
parking for large conferences, and that planners do take parking availability
into account. Regent Newman said that it is important for the University to
provide sufficient parking to allow visitors to have access to the campus.
Regent McGowan observed that during the discussion of plans for the
construction of Wyly Hall, there was discussion of presenting a "parking/
environmental impact statement" to the Board concurrent with the
presentation of building design plans. Mr. Mayer observed that there are
sites available on campus for the construction of additional parking facilities.
Regent Newman suggested that there be another presentation describing the
overall parking situation on campus and how parking is coordinated among
the various campus buildings and facilities.
Regent Power noted that the Regents would like to have parking impact
statements accompany the discussion of all new building construction, so
that each presentation would include a discussion of the -relation of the
building to the master plan, programmatic issues, and parking issues.
President Bollinger inquired whether there exists an overall master plan
for the Ann Arbor campus. Mr. Mayer responded that the tendency has been
to develop plans for the several Ann Arbor campus areas individually (North
Campus, Medical Campus, Central Campus, Athletic Campus), and that
perhaps it would be worthwhile to develop a concept that links all of the
plans.
Following this discussion, there was a recess, during which the Regents
were taken on a tour of the Lurie Engineering Center. The meeting reconvened
at 2:40 p.m.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the April 17-18, 1997,
meeting. Regent Newman pointed out an error which was noted and will be
corrected.
Reports. Associate Vice President Herbert submitted the following
reports: Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor
Relations.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted Projects Established and
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects. Vice
President Neidhardt observed that the University of Michigan reviews all
research involving human subjects through five standing institutional review
boards, and he then described how the review process operates. He noted
that the principles guiding the review boards were set forth in a 1979
document known as the Belmont Report. The three fundamental principles


318




May Meeting, 1997


guiding the review are respect for persons, beneficence, and justice. He
distributed copies of the Belmont Report to the Regents. Vice President
Neidhardt also noted that the state Senate had passed a bill prohibiting the
exploitation and photographing of human remains on shipwrecks, which
validates the University's earlier decision not to allow the use of its M-Rover
vehicle for this purpose. He also noted that while only one-third of the
research performed in the United States is funded by the federal
government, three-fourths of the scientific papers backing up the patents
driving industry have emerged from publicly supported research.
The Regents received the Faculty Governance Update.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted a report of gifts
received for the month of April 1997. He reported that the capital campaign
had surpassed $1 billion in gifts and pledges, not counting bequests.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund and
other support in  the Medical School...................................  $  38,600
Actuarial Education & Research Fund, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 15,000
Aetna Life & Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  15,000
Jay Alix and Associates, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 201,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and the Biophysics Research Division............................ 60,913
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for chemistry and physics support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts.........................................................  72,400
American Digestive Health Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.......................           25,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,750
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts........................................................  117,773
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 15,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................  5,000
Amoco Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  15,000
George H. Andrews, Oberlin, Ohio
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law School................................ 5,000
Anonymous Donor
2,500 shares of KeyCorp common stock and a cash gift
for the Medical School, the Museum of Art, the University Musical Society,
and for the Dean's Distingished Professorship in Humanities in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts,....................................  127,069
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,292


319




May Meeting, 1997


Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School.................................... 6,667
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  11,400
Autospect, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Nancy Azzam, Golden Valley, Minnesota
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 5,000
Fleming A. Barbour, Flint
for the Fleming A. and Marian E. Barbour Endowed Scholarship at the
University  of M ichigan-Flint...........................................  50,738
Bayer Corporation, West Haven, Connecticut
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  13,333
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship....................... 23,659
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Bergstrom Fellows in Child Advocacy Law Fund in the Law School.... 10,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Josef S. Blass, Bowling Green, Ohio
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship and the Graduate
Research Internships and Fellowships Fund in the Center for Russian
and East European Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 12,500
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 5,660
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering; and for the
Minority Engineering Program and the Women in Engineering Fund in the
College of Engineering................................................ 14,000
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Betty and Marvin Borman Faculty Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.......................................  15,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center... 20,500
Claris M. Brown Estate
for the Claris M. Brown Scholarship in the School of Nursing............... 20,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Borders Group, Inc., common stock
for the University Musical Society......................................  10,219
Burger King Corporation, Miami, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
B. F. Chamberlain, Bloomfield Hills
520 shares of Standard Federal Bancorporation common stock
for the Ray L. Fisher Baseball Fund and other support in the Department of
Athletics, and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 30,323
Zuohuang Chen, Wichita, ansas
for support in  the School of Music......................................  10,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship, School of Business Administration.... 12,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research and the Searle Scholars Program in the Medical School......... 30,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Management at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn........................................... 5,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  9,600
Citizens, Flint
for WFUM-TV................................................ 7,350
Jerry J. Cohen, Walnut Creek, California
100 shares of Clorox Company common stock
for the Jerry J. Cohen Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the University  of Michigan..........................................  11,813
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts...........................................   6,478
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 17,000


320




May Meeting, 1997


Walter B. Connolly, Stuart, Florida
100 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School...........................................  5,247
Cooper Industries - Wagner Lighting Division, Chesterfield, Missouri
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College o Engineering........... 13,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,125
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics...................... 20,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering......... 80,000
Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund, Detroit
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for scholarships and fellowships at the University of Michigan.............. 30,500
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,000
John R. Edman, Orchard Lake
for the John R. And Betty B. Edman Award in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,000
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Emergency Medicine Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  43,628
Envelope Printery, Inc., Taylor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Mary Longmaid Erwin, Bloomfield Hills
for the Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School.................... 5,000
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School................... 10,000
Flint Area School Employees Credit Union, Flint
for the Computer Science High School Programming Contest at the
University  of M ichigan-Flint............................................  5,000
Flow Ezy Filters, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................. 5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering, for the C. S. Mott Children's
Hospital Gift Fund and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and
the Quality Research Center at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 211,090
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School, for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center; for the Art Gallery, the Fair Lane Music
Guild, the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and the School of Management
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn; and for employee matching gifts.... 174,000
Foundry Educational Foundation, Des Plaines, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering.................................  5,400
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. FrankelEntrepreneurship Fund in the School of Business
Administration and for the Frankel Fellowship in Jewish Communal Service
in the School of Social Work......................................... 22,500
James L. French, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Class of 1952 Fund in the School of Nursing....................... 25,000
Rita R. Gelman, Ann Arbor
for program support in the School of Social Work.......................... 5,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research  in the Medical School.....................................  125,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for support in the College of Engineering and for research in the
Transportation  Research Institute.....................................  203,700
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration, for the Summerscience Fund in the Center for the
Education of Women and for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center,
the Minority Engineering Program and the General Motors
Foundation Computer Aided Engineering Network Fund in
the  College  of Engineering............................................  315,000


321




May Meeting, 1997


Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in  the School of Music......................................  12,000
Linda M. Graham, Ann Arbor
for the Vascular Cell Biology Research Fund in the Medical School........... 7,944
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing in the College
of Engineering....................................................... 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research......... 300,000
David A. Hamilton, Allen Park
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Hazel J. Headley, Estero, Florida
for support in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of
Michigan-Flint........................................................ 5,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute, and
for employee  matching gifts............................................  18,815
Hitachi, Brisbane, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Howdy S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,000
Honigman Foundation, Inc., Southfield
for the Honigman-Sempliner Award Fund in the Law School................. 6,000
Horizon Health Center Limited Partnership, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Howard & Howard Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for scholarships in  the Law  School......................................  10,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of
Engineering, and for employee matching gifts............................ 10,200
IBM Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................            7,500
Illinois School Transportation Association, Crestwood, Illinois
for research in the Transportation Research Institute....................... 5,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 12,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the School of Public Policy................................ 66,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 11,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
for research in the College of Engineering................................  40,000
Janssen, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  5,646
Janssen Pharmaceutical Research Foundation, Titusville, New Jersey
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the
M edical School..................................                 10,000
Armen Bersabe Jerejian Foundation, Inc., Paramus, New Jersey
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...................................... 5,000
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for program support in the School of Social Work......................... 20,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the School of Public Health, and
for employee matching gifts........................................... 244,402
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School...................................... 12,367
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................... 21,882
Stella Kaufman Trust
for the Turner Geriatrics Center; and for the Michigan League, in memory
of Lewis D. Kaufm an.................................................  12,454
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for employee matching gifts...... 85,420


322




May Meeting, 1997


Kosciuszko Leasing, Inc., Bowling Green, Ohio
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship and the Graduate
Research Internships and Fellowships Fund in the Center for Russian
and East European Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 12,500
Lemmon Company, Kulpsville, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School................................... 12,500
Alfred A. Levinson, Calgary, Alberta, Canada
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships and Fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and Arts.. 25,000
George Lurcy Charitable and Educational Trust, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies..............................................................  15,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research and other support in the School of Education................. 343,000
Mallinckrodt Medical, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Public Policy................................  10,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 9,828
MBNA America Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware
for the Alumni Association Scholarship Fund.............................. 5,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for support in the School of Social Work................................. 50,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical
School and for WFUM-TV and the Computer Science High School
Programming Contest at the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 17,859
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Law School, for the South African Training Program in
the Institute for Social Research; and for the Population Studies Center in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 727,500
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and for minority and female scholarships
in  the  College  of Engineering..........................................  32,200
Merkley Charitable Trust
for the Music Academy and other support at the University of
Michigan-Flint....................................................... 6,550
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for the University Musical Society.................................... 138,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Automotive Industry Center, Southfield
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 13,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.......... 5,000
D. Michael Murphy, West Olive
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics..................... 15,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts........................................................  102,708
E. Jeanette Myers Estate
for support in the Alumni Association................................... 24,414
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc. Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 25,000
Ronald P. Nordgren, Houston, Texas
932 shares of Merrill Lynch Pacific Fund mutual fund
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Research Funds in the
M edical School.......................................................  20,168
NSK Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................ 10,000
Oracle Corporation, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute. 7,500


323




May Meeting, 1997


Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School
of Business Administration.............................................  30,000
Guy S. Peppiatt Family Trust
1,208 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration.... 79,187
Donald E. and Jo Anne Petersen Foundation, Birmingham
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for unrestricted support of the
University  of M ichigan................................................  12,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........... 470,000
Pfizer Leibmger, Dallas, Texas
for the Oral Surgery Fund in the School of Dentistry....................... 7,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacology-Cardiovascular Research Fund in the Medical School... 10,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  11,900
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,403
Dorothy D. Purdy Estate
for support in the School of Social Work..................................  5,172
Questor Management Company, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 10,000
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.............................. 5,833
Research Electronics International, L.L.C., Cookeville, Tennessee
for research in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  100,000
Rheometric Scientific, Piscataway, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Marion Morrey Richter Estate
for the Otto C. Richter Memorial Prize Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  30,000
RICOH Corporation, San Jose, California
for research in the College of Engineering.................................  6,000
Rockwell International, Automotive Operations Division, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute. 7,500
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute...................................................  140,000
Sage Foundation, Brighton
for scholarships and fellowships at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 10,000
Lewis Saks Estate
for the Lewis Saks Memorial Fund.....................................  200,000
SangStat Medical Corporation, Menlo Park, California
for the TXP Research and Development Fund in the Medical School.......... 5,000
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center... 6,200
Russell L. Schneider, Lansing
for the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider
Student Merit Award Endowment...................................... 40,000
Arun K. Sharma, Midland, Texas
for the G. D. Sharma Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  7,500
Stuart E. Sheill Trust
for the Stuart and Jane Sheill Scholarship in the School of Music............ 14,086
Grant Silverfarb, West Bloomfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration..................... 771,000
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for research in the School of Business Administration......................   49,500
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 25,038
Ruth L. Striffler, Ann Arbor
for the Dave Striffler Fund in the School of Public Health................... 5,000


324




May Meeting, 1997


Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for research in the Medical School.......................................  7,500
Sullivan, Ward, Bone, Tyler & Asher, P.C., Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Christopher T. Tamer, Dearborn Heights
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Tenneco Foundation, Houston, Texas
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  5,000
Time, Inc., New York, NewYork
for the TMQDA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,100
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering, for the Center for Engineering
Education and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 80,403
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for the UMI Information Management Fellowship in the School of
Information and for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities Fund and
other support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......... 42,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women... 7,500
University of Michigan Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Stadium Brick Proiect Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Alumnae Council Program Initiatives Fund in the Center for the
Education of Women................................................... 5,807
Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society.....................................  144,949
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, for the Comprehensive Cancer Center
and for the University Musical Society...................................  107,560
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching  gifts............................................  11,300
Charles D. Weir, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,000
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship and the Elizabeth V.
and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 5,000
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics, for the Lois
and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in the School of Business
Administration and for the Zenkel Minority Scholarships in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 70,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Accu-tech Industries, Shelby Township
four brackets, three brake disc carriers and two rings for the Solar Car Project
Akzo Nobel Coatings, Inc., Troy
a Colorbuild Primer Surfacer and related items for the Solar Car Project
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
47 glass art works for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Berkowitz Gallery
CEO Image Systems, Birmingham
management software packages including installation and technical support for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of Computer Information Science
James L. Curtis, Jamaica, New York
a collection of African Art and various art works by African-American artists for the
Museum of Art
Ernest C. Fackler III, Chicago, Illinois
German war films, books and other educational material for the University Library
Robert T. Florine, Flint
National Geographic magazines for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson
Thompson Library
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
works by and relating to Christopher D. Morley for the University Library
Joseph Gregoria, Southgate
eight VCR's and other related items for the Department of Hematology/Oncology
Irwin T. Holtzman, Bloomfield Hills
638 items relating to William Faulkner for the University Library
325




May Meeting, 1997


Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
ten computer systems for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
International Business Machines Corporation, Southfield
two IBM Think Pads and seven PCs with Catia software modules and support services
for the Solar Car Project
Mack Industries, Inc., Troy
various equipment for the Solar Car Project
Perkin-Elmer Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
a Perkin-Elmer FTIR for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural
Sciences
Tooling & Equipment International, Livonia
support services for the Solar Car Project


Additional gifts ranging from $1
following donors:
David Akin, Ann Arbor
Armada Products Company &
Armada Tube Bend, Armada
Bellcore, Morristown, New Jersey
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
Jordan Brookes Company, Inc.,
Los Angeles, California
Carol A. Chaney, Burton
Charles E. M. Dunlop, Ann Arbor
Patricia Engle, Lapeer
David D. Goode, Harrisville
Nancy O. Gouin, Clarkston
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor
Larry Hirschfeld, Ann Arbor
Ingersoll-Rand Company,
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor


to $999 in value were received from the
Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Renate McLaughlin, Lennon
Metrics Unlimited, Inc., Warren
Ellis Perlman, Burton
Cheryl Pierce, Canton
James I. Porter, Ann Arbor
President Titanium, Hanson, Massachusetts
Gary W. Roat, Flint
Donald B. Smith, Flint
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Ann Stoler, Ann Arbor
Johannes Tall, Flint
Wenley House Student Council, Ann Arbor
Kenneth B. West, Flint
White Rabbit Toy Store, Ann Arbor
Beth E. Wolf, Ann Arbor


Personnel Matters. Provost Machen submitted 135 recommendations
for faculty promotions. Chancellor Nelms submitted recommendations for
nine faculty promotions from the Flint campus. Provost Simpson submitted
twelve recommendations for promotion from the Dearborn campus. Provost
Machen also submitted other personnel actions, personnel reports,
retirement memoirs, and memorial statements.
Personnel Actions. The following personnel actions were submitted:
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF
PROFESSOR, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1997
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Harris, A. Melissa, from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of
Architecture, with tenure
Kim, Jong-Jin, from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of
Architecture, with tenure
Kleinman, Kent F., from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of
Architecture, with tenure
Levine, Jonathan, from Assistant Professor of Urban Planning to Associate Professor of
Urban Planning, with tenure
Nawab, Mojtaba, from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of
Architecture, with tenure


326




May Meeting, 1997


School of Business Administration
Batra, Rajeev, from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor of
Marketing, with tenure
Lafontaine, Francine, from Associate Professor of Business Economics, without tenure,
School of Business Administration, and Associate Professor of Economics, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Business
Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Associate Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lundholm, Russell J., from Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Professor of
Accounting, with tenure
Mitchell, William G., from Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International
Business, with tenure, to Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business,
with tenure
Schipani, Cindy A., from Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, to Professor of
Business Law, with tenure
Skinner, Douglas J., from Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Professor of
Accounting, with tenure
School of Dentistry
Jaarda, Merle J., from Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Associate Professor of Dentistry,
with tenure
MacNeil, Roderick L., from Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure
Want, Hom-Lay, from Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Associate Professor of Dentistry,
with tenure
School of Education
Dey, Eric L., from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, with
tenure
Harrington, Helen L., from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure
Hurtado, Sylvia, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education,
with tenure
Lee, Valerie E., from Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, to Professor of
Education, with tenure
College of Engineering
Bernstein, Dennis S., from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Brown, Richard B., from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Dahm, Werner J. A., from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Duenyas, Izak, from Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering to
Associate Professor of Industrial Operations and Engineering, with tenure
Gilchrist, Brian E., from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
and Assistant Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences to Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure
Liu, Yili, from Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering to Associate
Professor of Industrial Operations and Engineering, with tenure
Ni, Jun, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, without
tenure, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Pierre, Christophe, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Sakallah, Karem A., from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Triantafyllidis, Nicolas, from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Tryggvason, Gretar, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure
Ziff, Robert M., from Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, to Professor
of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
327




May Meeting, 1997


Law School
Malamud, Deborah, from Assistant Professor of Law to Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Akhoury, Ratindranath, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor of
Physics, with tenure
Anderson, Andrew A., from Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, to Professor of
Spanish, with tenure
Barvinok, Alexander I., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Becker, Jill, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of Psychology,
with tenure
Bloch, Anthony M., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Brown, Catherine, from Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Comparative
Literature to Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Comparative Literature,
with tenure
Burnham, Robyn J., from Assistant Professor of Biology, Assistant Professor of Geological
Sciences, and Assistant Curator, Museum of Paleontology, to Associate Professor of
Biology, with tenure, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and
Associate Curator, Museum of Paleontology
Burns, Nancy E., from Assistant Professor of Political Science to Associate Professor of
Political Science, with tenure
Coronil, Fernando, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Assistant Professor of
History to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure
Duanmu, San, from Assistant Professor of Linguistics to Associate Professor of Linguistics,
with tenure
Graham-Bermann, Sandra A., from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor
of Psychology, with tenure
Henderson, Andrea K., from Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature to
Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Huang, Yasheng, from Assistant Professor of Political Science to Associate Professor of
Political Science, with tenure
Kling, George W., from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, with
tenure
Krisch, Jean P., from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor of Physics,
with tenure
Lange, Rebecca A., from Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences to Associate Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure
Larsen, Randy J., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
Lawrence, Ruth J., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Lee, Stephen, from Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure
Lormand, Eric P., from Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Associate Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure
MacKintosh, Frederick C., from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of
Physics, with tenure
Mateo, Mario L., from Assistant Professor of Astronomy to Associate Professor of
Astronomy, with tenure
Moy, Allen, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Reuter-Lorenz, Patricia A., from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
Riles, John K., from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, with
tenure
Robertson, Jennifer E., from Associate Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies,
with tenure, to Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure
Schmidt, Brian B., from Assistant Professor of Hebrew Bible to Associate Professor of
Hebrew Bible, with tenure
Smereka, Peter S., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
328




May Meeting, 1997


Smith, Richard C., from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History,
with tenure
Terada, Rei M., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature to Associate
Professor of English Language and Literature
Zhang, Youxue, from Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences to Associate Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure
Medical School
Alexander, Neil B., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Askari, Frederick K., from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
Bolling, Steven F., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Bozynski, Mary Ellen A., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Brenner, Dean E., from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Pharmacology, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure
Bude, Ronald 0., from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology,
with tenure
Burke, David T., from Assistant Professor of Human Genetics to Associate Professor of
Human Genetics, with tenure
Burmeister, Margit, from Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Department of Psychiatry,
and Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Department of Human Genetics, to
Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, and
Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, Department of Human Genetics
Cohan, Richard H., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of
Radiology, with tenure
Davenport, Robertson D., from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure
DiRita, Victor J., from Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Unit for
Laboratory Animal Medicine, and Assistant Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, to Associate Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine,
and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure,
Department of Microbiology and Immunology
Eagle, Kim A., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Elta, Grace H., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Engleberg, N. Cary, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
without tenure
Franceschi, Renny T., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of
Dentistry, and Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, to Associate
Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School
Gordon, David, from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure
Greenson, Joel K., from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure
Grum, Cyril M., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Gyetko, Margaret R., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Howell, Joel D., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
and Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of
Public Health, and Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health, and Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts


329




May Meeting, 1997


Hughes, Bret A., from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of
Physiology to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Physiology, without tenure
Jamerson, Kenneth A., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Johnson, Mark W., from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology to Associate Professor of
Ophthalmology, with tenure
Kazajian, Powel H., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
King, Cheryl A., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
with tenure
Koeppe, Robert A., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Kuzon, William M., Jr., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of
Surgery, with tenure
Laing, Timothy J., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Lawrence, Theodore S., from Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, to
Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Little, Karley Y., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
with tenure
McShan, Daniel L., from Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, to
Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Metzger, Joseph M., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Department of
Physiology, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Department of Internal
Medicine, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Department of
Physiology, and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Department
of Internal Medicine
Pearlman, Mark D., from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Associate
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Quint, Leslie E., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of
Radiology, with tenure
Richardson, Bruce C., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Robertson, Patricia L., from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Assistant Professor of Neurology to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Neurology, without tenure
Roessler, Blake J., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate Professor of
Pharmaceutics, without tenure, College of Pharmacy
Ross, Brian D., from Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, with tenure, and Assistant
Professor of Biological Chemistry to Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure
Saper, Mark A., from Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry to Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Shayman, James A., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Shea, Michael J., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Sitrin, Robert G., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Soslowsky, Louis J., from Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, and Assistant
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of Engineering,
to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, and Assistant Professor
of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of Engineering
Telian, Steven A., from Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, to
Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Van Dyke, Rebecca W., from from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure to
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Watkins, Paul B., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Williams, Brent C., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure


330




May Meeting, 1997


Williams, David M., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of
Radiology, with tenure
Wojtys, Edward M., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of
Surgery, with tenure
School of Music
Aspnes, Lynne, from Associate Professor of Music (Harp), with tenure, and Associate Dean
to Professor of Music (Harp), with tenure, and Associate Dean
Daval, Charles, from Associate Professor of Music (Trumpet), with tenure, to Professor of
Music (Trumpet), with tenure
Delanghe, Gay A., from Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Dance, to Professor of Dance, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Dance
Everett, Walter, from Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory) to Associate Professor of
Music (Music Theory), with tenure
Gordon, Charles F., from Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, without tenure, School
of Music, and Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Theatre and
Drama, with tenure, School of Music, and Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hahn, Jessica, from Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama to Associate Professor of
Theatre and Drama, with tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Princen, Thomas E., from Assistant Professor of International Natural Resources and
Environmental Policy to Associate Professor of International Resources and
Environmental Policy, with tenure
School of Nursing
Hagerty, Bonnie, from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing,
with tenure
Yeo, SeonAe, from Assistant Professor of Nursing to Associate Professor of Nursing, with
tenure
College of Pharmacy
Rice, Kevin G., from Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmaceutics to
Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmaceutics, with tenure
Smith, David E., from Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, to Professor of
Pharmaceutics, with tenure
Yang, Victor C. M., from Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, to Professor of
Pharmaceutics, with tenure
School of Public Health
Nriagu, Jerome, from Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, to
Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure
School of Social Work
Ingersoll-Dayton, Berit, from Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, to Professor of
Social Work, with tenure
UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Akiyama, M. Michael, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
Erickson, Susan, from Assistant Professor of Art History to Associate Professor of Art
History, with tenure
Gillespie, John A., from Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, to
Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure
Luthra, Rashmi, from Assistant Professor of Communications and Composition to Associate
Professor of Communications and Composition, with tenure
Prentis, Jeffery J., from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor of Physics,
with tenure
Smith, Jonathan, from Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature to Associate
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Woodland, J. Randal, from Assistant Professor of Composition and Rhetoric to Associate
Professor of Composition and Rhetoric, with tenure
331




May Meeting, 1997


UM-Dearborn School of Education
Thornton, Leslie J. II, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Awad, Selim, from Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
to Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure
Kamrani, Ali K., from Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems
Engineering to Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems
Engineering, with tenure
Lakshamanan, Sridhar, from Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering to
Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure
Murphey, Yi L., from Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering to
Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bernsten, Janice G., from Assistant Professor of Linguistics to Associate Professor of
Linguistics, with tenure
Carty, Linda E., from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
D'Souza, Harry, from Associate Professor of Mathematics to Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure
Gull, Richard, from Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, to Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure
Hakam, Imane A., from Assistant Professor of French to Associate Professor of French, with
tenure
Myers, Steven F., from Assistant Professor of Biology to Associate Professor of Biology, with
tenure
O'Donnell, Paul, from Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, to Professor of
Foreign Languages, with tenure
Svoboda, Frederic J., from Associate Professor of English, with tenure, to Professor of
English, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Management
Angur, Madhukar, from Assistant Professor of Marketing to Associate Professor of
Marketing, with tenure
Raman, Kalyan, from Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Marketing, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Dickerson, Glenda, M.A., Professor of Theatre and Drama, July 1, 1997
Epstein, Samuel D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Linguistics
Ewing, Rodney C., Ph.D., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Geological Sciences, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lazarsfeld, Robert K., Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics
Richardson, Carol P., Ed.D., Associate Professor of Music
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997
Bielajew, Alex F., Ph.D., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences


332




May Meeting9 1997


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Dixon, Jack E., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Chair, Department of
Biological Chemistry, and Minor J. Coon Collegiate Professor of Biological Chemistry,
reappointed Minor J. Coon Collegiate Professor of Biological Chemistry, five-year term,
July 1, 1996
Jayaratne, Srinika D., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Social Work, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Social Work, four-year term
Morton, Harrison L., Professor of Forest Pathology, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, three-year term
Studier, Eugene H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Biology,
UM-Flint, reappointed Chair, Department of Biology, UM-Flint, three-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Goldstein, Steven A., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Assistant Dean for Research
and Graduate Studies, Medical School, and Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, without tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, May 1, 1997
Rabasa, Jose M., Associate Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature, with tenure,
also appointed, Chair, Department of Romance Languages and Literature, three-year
term, July 1, 1997
Raitt, Suzanne, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, September 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Flint, Christopher, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, leave without
salary extended, September 1-December 31, 1997
MacCormack, Sabine G., Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure, Professor of History, with
tenure, and Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, leave without salary extended
Traub, Valerie J., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Boureau, Alain, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, fall term
Campbell, Stephen J., Assistant Professor of History of Art, also appointed William Wilhartz
Assistant Professor of History of Art, September 1, 1997
Fornell, Claes G., Professor of Marketing, with tenure, and Donald C. Cook Professor of
Business Administration, reappointed Donald C. Cook Professor of Business
Administration, five-year term, September 1, 1997


333




May Meeting, 1997


Kinnear, Thomas C., Vice-President for Development, Professor of Marketing, with tenure,
and D. Maynard Phelps Professor of Business Administration, reappointed D. Maynard
Phelps Professor of Business Administration, five-year term, September 1, 1997
Rosman, Moshe, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, September 3 -December 19, 1997
Eric   R. Wolf Professorship        in   Anthropology.       The   Regents
approved the establishment of the Eric R. Wolf Professorship in
Anthropology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective
June 1, 1997.
William J. Herdman Professorship in Neurology. The Regents
approved the establishment of the William J. Herdman Professorship in
Neurology in the Medical School, effective May 16, 1997.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
College ofEngineering Executive Committee
Koren, Yoram, July 1, 1997-June 30, 2001, vice Andrew Nagy, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Welage, Lynda S., July 1, 1997-June 30, 2000, vice Sally K. Guthrie, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Ingersoll-Dayton, Berit, September 1, 1997-August 31, 2000, vice Beth Reed, term expired
Siefert, Kristine A., September 1, 1997-August 31, 2000, vice Sheila Feld, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Division of Kinesiology
Wotta, Craig P., B.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, March 15, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Abdella, Jennifer A., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology
Ferrarese, Michelle A., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology
Vanderborgh, Mark A., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, July 1, 1997
Medical School
Kohrman, David C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, February 1, 1997
School of Music
Hubbs, Nadine M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), September 1, 1997
Jones, Darryl V., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, September 1, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Nolta, Kathleen V., Lecturer II in Chemistry also appointed Lecturer I in Biology, May 1, 1997


334




May Meeting, 1997


Medical School
Adhikary, Gaury S., from Lecturer in Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Anesthesiology, March 1, 1997
Herzog, Susan B., Assistant Professor of Physiology, Medical School, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 1997
Yung, Raymond L., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, December 1, 1996
School of Nursing
McGuinness, Mary C., from Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, to Clinical Nurse
Specialist, UMH Pediatric/Perinatal/Psychiatry Nursing, April 14, 1997
School of Public Health
James, Sherman A., from Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs to Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, May 31, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Science
and Engineering, January 1-April 30, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McNamara, Leo F., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, May 1 -June 30, 1997
Medical School
Chethik, Morton, Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Child Psychoanalysis, Psychiatry,
January 1-December 31, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Education
Womack, Farris W., Professor of Education, without tenure, retirement furlough,
March 1, 1997-February 28, 1998
College of Engineering
Ghosh, Amit K., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Halloran, John W., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave
Martin, David C., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bailey, Richard W., Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Baxter, Charles M., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave
Bender, Robert A., Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Bodmer, Rolf A., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Daniel, E. Valentine, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, leave without salary
Egger, Rebecca M., Assistant Professor of English and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1997


335




May Meeting, 1997


Goic, Cedomil, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor of Spanish-American Literature, with
tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Kollman, Kenneth W., Assistant Professor of Political Science, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1996
Mitani, John C., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Nooden, Larry D., Professor of Botany, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Pearson, William H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Ramanujan, M.S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retirement furlough
Schiefelbein, John W., Jr., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Schoenfeldt, Michael C., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1997, and sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Stevens, John D., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, retirement furlough
Van der Voo, Rob, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, sabbatical leave
Werner, Earl E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Yaeger, Patricia S., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,1997
Medical School
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of
Physiology, without tenure, leave without salary, May 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Dowling, Catherine A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave. March 20-April 9, 1997
Marn, Charles S., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, April 1 -June 30, 1997
Massey, Vincent, J. Lawrence Oncley Distinguished University Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Medzihradsky, Fedor, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, retirement furlough (phased), April 15, 1997 -April 14, 1998
Midgley, A. Rees, Jr., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -June 30, 1997
School of Music
Beene, Richard A., Associate Professor of Music (Bassoon), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Cardullo, Robert J., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997.Culver, Robert L., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, and
Lecturer in Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave
Morrison, Theodore, Associate Professor of Conducting, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Reynolds, H. Robert, Professor of Conducting, with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in
Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Woods, Leigh A., Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Mazian, Florence I., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 21, 1996-December 9, 1997
CHANGE TO
ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
College of Literature. Science. and the Arts
Einhorn, Martin B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 1996 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1997)


336




May Meeting, 1997


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on May 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Brandle, Kurt, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retired
School of Art and Design
Sekulski, Ronald A., Assistant Professor of Art, term complete, May 31, 1996
School of Business Administration
Frank, Thomas E., Lecturer in Marketing, resigned, April 30, 1997
School of Dentistry
Brandau, Henry E., Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry, retired, June 30, 1997
Gerigk, Carola A., Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete, April 30, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barnes, Elizabeth L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, resigned
Brown, Elsa B., Assistant Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, resigned
Coffin, C. Tristram, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Ford, George W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Goldberg, David, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, retired
Hecht, Karl T., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Hopf, Theodore G., Assistant Professor of Political Science, term complete
Kreidlin, Grigorii E., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1997
Meyer, Donald I., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired, December 31,- 1996
Oshagan, Hayg H., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, term complete
Perkins, Bradford, Professor of History, with tenure, retired
Raymond, Frank A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retired
Shishkoff, Sergei, Lecturer III in Slavic Languages and Literatures, retired
Veltman, Martinus J., John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Medical School
Landsgaard, Henry R., Clinical Associate II in Surgery, resigned, April 30, 1997
Taren, James A., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, retired, March 31, 1997
Museum of Art
Hennessey, William J., Director, Museum of Art, Associate Professor of History of Art, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Associate Professor of Architecture,
without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and Associate Professor
of Art, without tenure, School of Art and Design, resigned, April 30, 1997
School of Music
Buyse, Leone K., Professor of Music (Flute), with tenure, resigned
Cooper, Lewis H., Professor of Music (Bassoon), with tenure, retired
Officer Education Program
Allen, Michael D., Chair, Air Force Officer Education Program, term complete, March 19, 1997;
School of Public Health
Hartung, Rolf, Professor of Environmental Toxicology, with tenure, retired
Takeshita, Yuzuru J., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, retired
Retirement Memoirs.          Secretary Palmer submitted       19 retirement
memoirs.
Kurt Brandle, professor of architecture in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Brandle was born in Binningen, Switzerland, and later moved
to Germany, where he received his Dipl. Ing. (1958) and his Dr. Ing. (1967)


337




May Meeting, 1997


degrees in architecture from the Technical University of Berlin. He was an
associate professor and then professor of architecture at the University of
Utah from 1969-81. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor
of architecture in 1981.
Within the college, Professor Brandle has taught graduate-level courses
in environmental technology, building design, and energy conservation. He
has also served as chair and co-chair on many dissertation committees and has
been an active member of many program, college, and University committees.
Professor Brandle is professionally registered in the state of Wisconsin
and has been a member of the board of the Huron Valley Chapter of AIA since
1996. He is a member of a number of professional societies and is a board
member of the Washtenaw Affordable Housing Corporation (WAHC). He has
designed a chancel area in the First United Methodist Church of Ann Arbor
and has designed prototypes for energy efficient housing for WAHC. He has
also been an expert witness in many cases related to roof construction and
thermal systems.
Professor Brandle consults as a member of the University's Energy
Conservation Committee and has recently completed a research project on the
cost effectiveness of energy conservation measures related to the Model
Energy Code in Michigan. In 1986 and 1987, he received the ASHRAE Energy
Award. Professor Brandle has clearly had an impact on the building systems
and energy management, performance, and applications of many buildings,
especially on the University of Michigan campus. Under his guidance,
students have become passionate in their respect for the environment and in
their desire to promote energy conservation.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Kurt Brandle
professor emeritus of architecture.
C. Tristram Coffin, professor of physics, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Coffin received his B.S. degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute in 1951 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Washington in
1956. After working for two years at the Columbia University Nevis
Cyclotron, he joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1959. He was promoted to associate professor in 1964 and
professor in 1974.
Professor Coffin's early work involved experiments on a number of
particle reactions using spark chamber and counter techniques. Between 1963
and 1975, he worked on a number of experiments at the Argonne Zero
Gradient Synchrotron involving pion-produced reactions. From the midseventies through 1981, Professor Coffin collaborated with a group at
Fermilab investigating neutrino interactions with the large bubble chamber.
The results from this program established neutrino interactions cross sections
and many parameters of the weak interaction.
In the early 1980s, Professor Coffin joined a collaboration at Fermilab
studying neutrino production from the decay of "charm" particles by running
the high-energy proton beam into a solid target. The collaborators built a
large detector and developed a sophisticated beam system which caused
interactions among energetic protons and thus swept away all particles save
the neutrinos. They were able to quantify the cross section for "charm"


338




May Meeting, 1997


production from various element targets. In a second group of Fermilab
experiments, he and his collaborators studied production of charmed particles
by 800 GeV protons on protons.    Professor Coffin's work contributed
significantly to the important results of this collaboration.
In the late 1980s, Professor Coffin turned to biophysics, using electron
paramagnetic resonance and Mossbauer spectrometers to study the active
sites of metal proteins. Professor Coffin is developing a high sensitivity
M6ssbauer spectrometer. This device obtained the first precision spectrum on
a natural abundance mammalian protein.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming C. Tristram
Coffin professor emeritus of physics.
Lewis Hugh Cooper, professor of music (bassoon), will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Born in Pontiac, Michigan, on New Year's Eve, 1920, Professor Cooper
received his B.Mus. degree from  the University of Michigan in 1955.
However, in 1945 he had joined the faculty of the School of Music as a
part-time instructor in bassoon. He was promoted to assistant professor in
1961 and associate professor in 1963, at which time his appointment was
increased to full-time status. He became professor of music in 1966. With his
extraordinary 52-year record of service, Professor Cooper is the longestserving member currently on the faculty at the University of Michigan.
Professor Cooper was a member of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra from
1946-64, performing in approximately 2,500 concerts. He was the bassoonist
on more than 30 distinguished recordings made by the orchestra during that
time, under the direction of Paul Paray. He is the author of several
influential articles on bassoon technique. Perhaps his major contribution to
the bassoon world lies in his study of the acoustics of the bassoon, the fruition
of which, in a longtime collaboration with Puchner bassoons, is the "Cooper
Model" that has been widely acclaimed for its musical excellence.
Professor Cooper has served multiple terms on the faculty Senate
Assembly, and within the School of Music he has been a guiding force in the
school's Council of Departmental Representatives. Most of all, he has been an
enthusiastic teacher of young bassoonists, for which he received the Harold
Haugh Award for Excellence in Studio Teaching in 1980.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his longtime record of
distinguished service by naming Lewis Hugh Cooper professor emeritus of
music (bassoon).
George W. Ford, professor of physics, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1997, following forty years of service.
Professor Ford received his A.B. (1949), M.S. (1951), and Ph.D. (1955)
degrees from the University of Michigan. After working at the National
Bureau of Standards and the University of Notre Dame, he returned to the
University of Michigan in 1958 as an assistant professor. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1961 and professor in 1966.
A theoretical physicist, early in his career Professor Ford built an
international reputation in the field of statistical mechanics. He then made
significant contributions to beta decay and electromagnetism, both classical
and quantum. He is known for his command of mathematical techniques for


339




May Meeting, 1997


the analysis of complex problems in electromagnetism. He has lectured and
published on topics in special and general relativity, biophysics, fluid
mechanics, and nonlinear mechanics. He has also had fruitful collaborations
with experimental colleagues in solid state physics and atomic physics.
Despite a demanding schedule of working and lecturing, he has always had
time to interact with a wide and diverse group of friends and colleagues.
Professor Ford's Ph.D. thesis was an important work on the application
of linear graphs in statistical mechanics, with applications to the equation of
state of gases. After his thesis, Professor Ford became involved in studies of
electromagnetism.  He next began a fruitful contribution to the g-2
experiments, and mentored the first of his Ph.D. students as they engaged in
an analysis of the motion of the spin of a classical relativistic particle. His
work was vital to the data analysis of his famous experimental program. He
later contributed to the positronium studies centered in the department. He
became known for his work in the 1970s on helicon oscillations of conducting
spheres and on the modes of an axisymmetric cavity resonator. He has also
written seminal papers on such diverse topics as energy balance in binary star
systems, instabilities in injected electron-hole plasmas in semiconductors, and
the rotation-vibration quantum states of floppy molecules. He continues to
work in statistical mechanics, dissipation in quantum systems, atomic physics,
and quantum electrodynamics.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming George W. Ford
professor emeritus of physics.
David Goldberg, professor of sociology and research scientist,
Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Goldberg received his B.A. (1952), M.A. (1953), and Ph.D.
(1958) degrees from Wayne State University. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1956 and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1958, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1969. His
active research career resulted in his appointment as associate director
(1961-72) and then director (1972-76) of the Population Studies Center, and
director of the Detroit Area Study from 1977-81.
His numerous publications on differential fertility are considered seminal
by population researchers, and his emphasis on the importance of gender
roles in fertility predates current interests by decades. Professor Goldberg
was also one of the early users of substantive regression procedures for
population estimation and projection, his publications for the Governor's
Commission and the Great Lakes Regional Commission appearing well before
the federal government adopted those techniques. In addition to publications
in demographic and sociological journals and books, some of Professor
Goldberg's joint research can be found in American Anthropologist (urban
kinship) and The Lancet (comparative multiple sclerosis).
Although Professor Goldberg had a distinguished research career, he
seems most pleased with his role as an educator, where he could demonstrate
and communicate the excitement of compressing truth from empirical data.
Much of his teaching was with first-year graduate students, and in more
recent years he taught a large share of undergraduate courses. He chaired
the dissertation committees of 28 Ph.D. students. Those students can now be


340




May Meeting, 1997


found at leading universities in a variety of teaching and administrative roles,
following the pursuit of productive research careers advancing what we know
through multivariate data analysis.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming David Goldberg
professor emeritus of sociology and research scientist emeritus.
Rolf Hartung, professor of environmental toxicology, Department of
Environmental and Industrial Health, and research scientist, Institute of
Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Born in Breman, Germany, Professor Hartung immigrated to the United
States in 1952. He studied wildlife management and toxicology at the
University of Michigan, earning his B.S. degree in 1960, his M.W.M. degree in
1962, and his Ph.D. degree in 1964. He was appointed lecturer in what is now
the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health in 1964; he was
promoted to assistant professor in 1965 and associate professor in 1969. In
1973, he was promoted to professor of environmental toxicology and research
scientist in the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health.
Professor Hartung was a noted teacher of toxicology and was
instrumental in the development of the program of graduate studies in
toxicology. He chaired the Interdepartmental Program in Toxicology from
1974-80. Professor Hartung was among the first to be nationally recognized
for his expertise in toxicology when he was board certified in toxicology in
1980 by the American Board of Toxicology. He has conducted seminal
research on the application of quantitative models to the environmental
toxicology of pesticides and heavy metals, with ultimate applications to risk
assessment. From 1993 to his retirement, he directed the Program in
Environmental Health Sciences.
Throughout his career, Professor Hartung has served as a consultant for
the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences, the
Science Advisory Board of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the
state of Michigan. He has also chaired or been a member of numerous
national and international scientific advisory committees.
In recognition of his lengthy and productive career, the Regents now
salute this faculty member by naming Rolf Hartung professor emeritus of
environmental toxicology and research scientist emeritus.
Karl T. Hecht, professor of physics, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1997.
Professor Hecht received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degree in 1948, 1949,
and 1955, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. He joined the
faculty as an instructor in 1955. He was promoted to assistant professor in
1957, associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1965.
Early in his career, Professor Hecht worked on the study of infrared
spectroscopy and molecular structure, achieving national recognition as one of
a handful of theorists who had brought the theory of molecular structure to a
nearly final, rigorous, and self-consistent form. He then turned his attention
to nuclear physics and quickly achieved international recognition for the
comprehensiveness of his understanding of nuclear physics and for the
precision and elegance of his theoretical formulations. Professor Hecht is now


341




May Meeting, 1997


among the leading nuclear theorists in the world and is widely considered the
leader in the application of group theoretical methods to problems of nuclear
structure. His work often stands as the final word on complex theoretical
problems.
Professor Hecht has made many contributions to experimental work as
well. While the experimental program in nuclear physics was developing at
Michigan-with M. Wiedenbeck's charged particles-Professor Hecht's
theoretical insight consistently played important roles in the success of these
programs. He has been a member of every dissertation committee in
experimental nuclear physics since the 1960s.
Widely considered one of the best teachers the physics department has
ever had, Professor Hecht has mentored several younger scientists who have
themselves become well-known in nuclear physics. He has chaired 13 Ph.D.
committees and supervised 11 postdoctoral physicists. In addition to having
held a number of distinguished fellowships, Professor Hecht has served twice
as Alexander von Humboldt senior fellow at the Max-Planck Institute in
Heidelberg, and is a fellow of the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science.
He has published over 100 articles, edited nearly two dozen conference
proceedings, and has given scores of invited talks throughout the world. In
1991, the Karl T. Hecht Symposium was held in Ann Arbor, bringing together
the leading nuclear physicists in his honor.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Karl T. Hecht
professor emeritus of physics.
Lois W. Hoffman, professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Hoffman received her B.A. degree in 1953 from the State
University of New York at Buffalo, her M.A. degree in 1954 from Purdue
University, and her Ph.D. degree in 1958 from the University of Michigan.
From 1954-60, she worked at the Institute for Social Research, first as an
assistant study director and then as a research associate. From 1960-67, she
was an independent scholar and co-editor of the Review of Child Development
Research. In 1967, she joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer
in the Department of Psychology. She was promoted to associate professor in
1971 and professor of psychology in 1975.
Professor Hoffman has had an impact on thousands of students through
her teaching and through her landmark textbook, Developmental Psychology
Today, which is now in its sixth edition. She has received numerous awards,
including the Child Study Association Outstanding Book Award (1966), the
J.F. Lewis Award form the American Philosophical Society (1978), an
Outstanding Teaching Award from the Department of Psychology (1981), and
the LS&A Excellence in Education Award in 1994.     She has been a
distinguished scholar at Radcliffe College and a scholar in residence at
Rockefeller Center in Bellagio, Italy. In 1989, the American Psychological
Association included her in its listing of "Eminent Women in Psychology."
Within the University, Professor Hoffman helped to establish the
Women's Studies Program and chaired the developmental area in the
psychology department. She served as president of two divisions of the
American Psychological Association: the Psychological Study of Social Issues
Division (1983-84) and the Developmental Psychology Division (1990-91).


342




May Meeting, 1997


Professor Hoffman's current research is an examination of how
socioeconomic conditions and work patterns affect family interaction and
children's socialization experiences, and how these affect the child's
development. Her work has been continuously marked by her concern with
sociocultural variables and the social setting as they affect family interaction
and parent-child relationships, and as variables that moderate effects on the
child.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Lois W.
Hoffman professor emerita of psychology.
Robert T. Lenaghan, professor of English, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Lenaghan received his B.A. degree (1949) from the University
of Iowa and his M.A. (1952) and Ph.D. (1957) degrees from Harvard
University. He served on the faculty at UCLA from 1957-61 and came to the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1961. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1965 and professor in 1973.
At Michigan, Professor Lenaghan's work evolved along three major lines
of interest: medieval and early modem literature; composition studies; and
faculty governance, both within and beyond the University of Michigan. His
major editorial contributions include Caxton's Aesop, published in 1967, and
(as coeditor responsible for the short poems in the Chaucer canon) The
Riverside Chaucer, published in 1987. He also published a number of journal
contributions that range from philological studies to the analysis of social
patterns among those members of medieval society who would have
constituted part of Chaucer's audience.
As one of the coeditors of The Norton Reader, which went through seven
editions between 1965 and 1987, Professor Lenaghan helped to shape the
content of literally thousands of college composition classes throughout the
United States. He also served the College Board as a reader for the Advanced
Placement Examination and directed the Sarah Lawrence-University of
Michigan Summer Program in London. In 1988, he won the University
Teaching Award.
In the area of faculty governance, Professor Lenaghan's contributions
were unusually wide-ranging. He was active in the Senate Assembly, in
SACUA, and in the state conference of the AAUP. In the early seventies,
during a marked decline in the academic job market, he organized a major
conference focused on exploring the nonacademic job market for graduating
Ph.D. students; he remained active in this pursuit for several years
afterwards.
Professor Lenaghan was an engaging and positive presence in the
department, who welcomed newcomers and made them feel that the
department was a genuine intellectual home. He cared deeply about the
academy and personified a model of service to its central ideals.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert T.
Lenaghan professor emeritus of English.
William G. Lockwood, professor of anthropology, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1997, after a distinguished career as a scholar and a
teacher.


343




May Meeting, 1997


Professor Lockwood received his A.B. degree from Fresno State College
in 1955 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of California at Berkeley in
1970. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor
of anthropology in 1969. He was promoted to associate professor in 1975 and
professor in 1995.
Professor Lockwood has played an essential role in anchoring the
University's presence in the anthropology of Eastern Europe and is probably
best known for the solidity and high quality of his descriptive ethnography.
His well-known book, European Moslems: Ethnicity and Economy in Western
Bosnia, remains an essential text for contemporary understanding of the
region. Professor Lockwood has been an instrumental figure in the department; he has directed the Honors Program for undergraduate majors, served
as associate chair, and served as a valued member of the executive committee.
In addition to his descriptive ethnography of Bosnian Muslims, Professor
Lockwood has also contributed to the scholarly literature on the historical
development of ethnic identity. Using comparative materials from his more
recent research with Gypsy populations in the Balkan region, other parts of
Europe, and the United States, he has demonstrated the need to place
contemporary boundaries and relations between dominant and subordinate
groups into a dense historical and political economic context. While his
ethnography of Bosnian Muslims is regarded as the single best study on this
group in English, this later work on theoretical issues related to identity
formation among ethnic groups is regarded as an important addition to the
descriptive ethnography of the Balkan anthropologists. Professor Lockwood's
contributions in these areas continue to be referred to by all serious scholars
of this region; his accumulated scholarship is among the foundational work
for courses on ethnicity in Eastern Europe and will retain its importance,
based on its descriptive rigor, for years to come.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William G.
Lockwood professor emeritus of anthropology.
Donald I. Meyer, professor of physics, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1996, following 40 years of service.
Professor Meyer earned his B.S. degree in 1946 from the Missouri School
of Mines and his Ph.D. degree in 1953 from the University of Washington. He
taught at the University of Oklahoma from1952-55 and then joined the
research staff at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. He joined the faculty
at the University of Michigan in 1957 as assistant professor of physics. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1961 and professor in 1966.
Professor Meyer's initial work at the University of Michigan involved
bubble chamber experiments. Later, he collaborated in work on strong
interactions and the associated production of strange particles. During this
period, he worked on a technique for modulating the voltage on the cathode of
a photomultiplier as a means of achieving very good time resolution. He also
collaborated on the development of a spectrometer magnet and on optical
spark chambers.
Through the 1970s and early 1980s, Professor Meyer collaborated on
hadronic physics experiments at Fermilab. Later, he and colleagues helped
initiate the multi-university high resolution spectrometer collaboration at the
positron-electron collider storage ring at the Stanford Linear Accelerator


344




May Meeting, 1997


Center.  In the 1990s Professor Meyer collaborated in a gamma ray
astronomy program at the Whipple Observatory in Arizona. Using Cerenkov
radiation from g-ray air showers, the group employed a large mirror with a
matrix of photomultipliers as its focus to observe photons with energies
10,000 times higher than could be studied by satellites. This resulted in
detection of the first extra-galatic source seen at these energies,
Markarian-421.
Professor Meyer initiated a joint program between the Department of
Physics and the College of Engineering to train Ph.D. students in practical
applications of modern physics technologies, which led to the highly successful
Program  in Applied Physics.  He also took leadership roles in the
recently-completed renovation of the Randall Laboratory and West
Engineering buildings and helped design the new    Physics Research
Laboratory. In recognition of his role in helping to create the physics
department's outstanding physical facilities, the physics meeting room in 335
West Hall has been named the Donald I. Meyer Commons.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Donald I. Meyer
professor emeritus of physics.
Bradford Perkins, professor of history, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Perkins received his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard
University in 1947 and 1952, respectively. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as professor of history in 1962, after having taught for ten
years at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Professor Perkins is recognized as one of the leading historians of
American foreign relations in the United States. The author, editor, or
coeditor of seven books and scores of other publications, his works have been
distinguished by their path-breaking character, the meticulousness of their
author's research, the sharpness of their insights, and an engaging literary
style. Professor Perkins' three volumes covering Anglo-American relations
from 1795-1823 were recognized immediately as the definitive works on their
subject. The last of these, Castlereagh and Adams: England and the United
States, 1812-1823, won the Bancroft Prize, the most prestigious award for a
book in American history.  His most recent book, The Creation of a
Republican Empire, 1776-1865, has been widely praised as a powerful
synthetic treatment of the crucial formative years of American foreign policy.
At Michigan, he has been an excellent teacher and a major force in the
shaping of the history department's curriculum. He was instrumental in the
establishment of the department's popular course on the war in Vietnam and
was a key figure in the development of the two-term introductory course on
the literature of American history that is now required of all incoming
American history graduate students. He has been chair of the history department, served numerous times on the department's executive committee, and
was a long-time chair of the history department graduate advisors.
Professor Perkins has won numerous awards and honors throughout his
long and productive career, culminating in the Norman and Laura Graebner
Career Achievement Award from the Society for Historians of American
Foreign Relations (1992). Within the University, he was twice the recipient of


345




May Meeting, 1997


the Department of History's competitive Hudson Research Professorship, and
in 1986 he received the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Bradford
Perkins professor emeritus of history.
Frank A. Raymond, professor of mathematics, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Raymond received his A.B. degree (1953) from Syracuse
University, his M.A. degree (1954) from Harvard University, and his Ph.D.
degree (1958) from the University of Michigan. From 1958-60 he was a
post-doctoral fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, and from 1960-62 he
was an assistant professor at the University of Wisconsin. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1962 as associate professor of mathematics;
he was promoted to professor in 1966.
Professor Raymond's research has been concerned with both algebraic and
geometric topology. His early work in generalized manifolds found immediate
applications to the theory of transformation groups. While at Wisconsin,
Professor Raymond worked out the theory of the symmetries of 3-dimensional
manifolds. This led to his interest in Seifert manifolds, which play an
important role in many geometric studies. The key was a method for
studying higher dimensional Seifert manifolds (geometric objects on which
one can do calculus) using Lie groups (the symmetries of Euclidean spaces)
and lower dimensional manifolds. The techniques developed here led to many
applications, one of which found long-sought-for examples of manifolds
without any finite symmetries. In 1972, the higher dimensional Seifert
fiberings took on a complex analytic flavor, and he wrote one of his most
important papers, "Holomorphic Seifert Fiberings." This led to exploiting
more and more the geometric aspects of Seifert fiberings in dimensions three
and higher. He delighted in working with others on his research, and he
authored or co-authored more than 75 journal articles.
Professor Raymond takes a keen interest in the development of graduate
students, having directed 25 dissertations over the last 30 years. Almost all of
his former students maintain active programs of mathematical research in
this country or aboard. In his teaching, Professor Raymond worked hard to
be innovative, seldom using the same material or same format for a repeated
course. He gave his time generously to his students and colleagues.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Frank A.
Raymond professor emeritus of mathematics.
Art J. Schwartz, associate professor of mathematics, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
A native of Michigan, Professor Schwartz received his B.Sc., M.A., and
Ph.D. degrees at Wayne State University in 1954, 1958, and 1960, respectively.
He served with the U.S. Army in Korea from 1955-57. Professor Schwartz was
an instructor at Wayne State University from 1960-61 and at Princeton
University from 1961-63. From 1963-65 he was a research associate and then
assistant professor at Columbia University.  He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1965 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1968.


346




May Meeting, 1997


In 1962, Professor Schwartz solved an open problem in dynamical
systems theory, extending to all compact surfaces the well-known work of
Deujoy which applied only to the torus; namely that all minimal sets are
trivial if the flow is C2. In addition to further work on dynamical systems, he
turned his attention to studying the political and social uses of technology.
For several years, he consulted at the CAD/CAM department of Ford Motor
Company. This work led to an interest in the analytical and algebraic
geometry of real surfaces of low degree, applying abstract theory to study
such practical surfaces as a windshield. Several mathematical publications of
interesting graphical content ensued.
Professor Schwartz has always been interested in pedagogy and spent
much of his energy in this direction. In recent years, this was particularly
evidenced by his active participation in the First-Year Seminar Program.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Art J. Schwartz
associate professor emeritus of mathematics.
William E. Sharp, research scientist, Space Physics Research
Laboratory, College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on
March 31, 1997, after a most productive career.
Dr. Sharp received his B.S. degree from William Jewell College in 1962,
his M.S. degree from the University of New Hampshire in 1965, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Colorado in 1970. He joined the University of
Michigan as a research associate in 1970; he was promoted to associate
research scientist in 1975 and research scientist in 1977.
Dr. Sharp's research activities focused mainly on the study of the earth's
upper atmosphere, using experiments conceived, designed, and built by him
and his students and launched on sounding rockets. His path-finding work
has long been considered the standard for the field of experimental aeronomy
using sounding rockets. His pioneering measurements of atomic oxygen
concentrations in the atmosphere in the early 1970s, for example, stimulated
the entire science community to reach a greater quantitative appreciation of
the role of reactive odd oxygen species in upper atmospheres. Dr. Sharp later
expanded these investigations to include comprehensive studies of a whole
panoply of chemical and radiative processes in the earth's aurora. These
investigations drew him into productive collaborations with the world's best
theorists and with other experimental teams, producing a highly prized body
of work.
Although his responsibilities were centered on research, Dr. Sharp has
held a lifelong interest in teaching. He has taught on both the Ann Arbor and
Dearborn campuses. Most recently, he served for six years as the director of
the Research Opportunities for Undergraduates site within the Space Physics
Research Laboratory, helping to train more than 15 students per year in
experimental and theoretical work. He has also chaired several Ph.D.
committees.
Dr. Sharp was assistant director of the Space Physics Research
Laboratory from 1986-91 and was a program director for aeronomy at the
National Science Foundation (NSF) in 1985-86. During his tenure at NSF, he
conceived and launched the highly successful Coupling, Energetics, and
Dynamics of Atmospheric Regions (CEDAR) Program that has powered


347




May Meeting, 1997


intensive collaborative work in upper atmospheric science in the United
States for over ten years.
The Regents now salute this staff member by naming William E. Sharp
research scientist emeritus.
Yuzuru J. Takeshita, professor of health behavior and health
education in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1997.
After graduating from high school in a California war relocation center in
1945, Professor Takeshita received his B.A. degree from Park College
(Missouri) in 1951. He received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1952 and 1962, respectively. From 1958-62, he
served on the faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles. From
1962-64, he was associate director of the Taiwan Population Studies Center.
He returned to the University of Michigan in 1964 as an assistant professor of
sociology, and in 1967 joined the School of Public Health as a research
associate in population planning. He was promoted to associate professor of
population planning in 1968 and professor in 1972. He was appointed
professor of health behavior and health education in 1977 and held a joint
appointment in population planning and international health until 1996.
Professor Takeshita has had a distinguished international career,
concentrating on fertility surveys and evaluation of population and healthrelated programs in the Third World, primarily in Southeast Asia and East
Asia. He served as a consultant to many projects under the auspices of major
U.S. and international organizations and was a senior staff member of the
World Fertility Survey, one of the largest survey operations in history. He
also served as senior advisor to Malaysia's national family planning board for
nearly a decade. He has contributed to the improvement of evaluation
research methodology in developing countries and to the utilization of
behavioral science perspectives in the study of family planning in China,
Korea, Japan, and elsewhere.
Within the University, Professor Takeshita provided academic leadership
to the Department of Population Planning and International Health, serving
terms as chair of the department and director of the Center for Population
Planning. He was also a long-time member of the Center for Japanese
Studies. He brought to the classroom a rare combination of expertise,
teaching skill, and respect for students who sought his guidance inside and
outside of the classroom. He chaired some twenty doctoral dissertations and
was a member of many dissertation committees.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Yuzuru J. Takeshita professor emeritus of health behavior and
health education.
Martinus J. Veltman, John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Veltman received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in theoretical
physics from the University of Utrecht (The Netherlands) in 1956 and 1963,
respectively. He was a fellow at CERN from 1961-66 and was professor of
physics at the University of Utrecht from 1966-81. He joined the University
of Michigan in 1981 as the John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics.


348




May Meeting, 1997


Professor Veltman is known worldwide for his pioneering work on the
renormalizability of gauge theories. The discovery that these theories are
renormalizable has revolutionized the field of particle physics.  All
interactions-weak, electromagnetic, and strong-are described by a gauge
theory, and the precise understanding of these theories has made it possible
to extract precise predictions and quantities to be observed experimentally.
Professor Veltman was the first to start a systematic analysis of the
calculation of radiative corrections. The methods developed by him and his
students are the basis for that branch of research. Precision measurements
have since confirmed the results in great detail, establishing firmly the
principles of gauge theories and their renormalizability. Professor Veltman
was also the first to develop a general-purpose computer program that can do
algebra. The underlying principles of that program are used in all modern
algebraic programs commonly found in software used by researchers
everywhere.
Professor Veltman is a member of the Dutch Academy of Science and is a
fellow of the American Physical Society. He has served on policy committees
at all of the world's major high energy physics laboratories. Among his many
honors are the Alexander von Humboldt Award (Germany); Doctor Honoris
Causa from SUNY-Stonybrook; and the Fifth Physica Lezing (The
Netherlands). In 1992, he was knighted into the Dutch Order of the Lion in
honor of Queen Beatrix of The Netherlands. He received the 1993 High
Energy Physics Prize from the European Physical Society. He has been a
towering presence in world physics and an invaluable colleague at the
University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Martinus J.
Veltman the John D. McArthur Professor Emeritus of Physics.
Joseph Veroff, professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist, Survey Research Center,
Institute for Social Research, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,
1997.
Professor Veroff received his B.A. degree in 1950 at Wesleyan University
and his M.A. (1952) and Ph.D. (1955) degrees at the University of Michigan.
He was an instructor at Princeton University in 1955-56, then returned to the
University of Michigan in 1956 as a study director at the Survey Research
Center in the Institute for Social Research (ISR). He became a lecturer in the
Department of Psychology in 1957 and was promoted to assistant professor in
1958, associate professor in 1962, and professor in 1967. He was named
faculty associate at ISR in 1975 and research scientist in 1985.
At Michigan, Professor Veroff co-directed what is certainly one of the
landmark studies in American social science: a national interview study of the
adult population's adaptation and satisfaction in work, marriage, and
parenthood and their use of various resources when they are confronted with
problems or crises. In 1976, he was principal investigator on a repeat of the
original study that documented changes in the American population's values,
attitudes, and behaviors over the crucial decades from 1957-76. The books
that resulted from these two studies have been widely used and
enthusiastically reviewed over the last 40 years.


349




May Meeting, 1997


Professor Veroff approached his teaching with the same excitement and
pleasure that he brought to research.    He involved graduate and
undergraduate students in his research activities, always seeking to win new
recruits for scientific inquiry and the life of the mind. Dozens of graduate
students benefited from his intuitive gifts and analytic sophistication as he
guided them through their dissertation research. He has a generosity of spirit
that marks all great teachers.
Within the University, Professor Veroff served on the Senate Assembly
and on a number of college and University committees. From 1991-96, he
distinguished himself as graduate chair of the Department of Psychology, all
the while continuing to supervise a large research project and a whole cadre of
graduate students. Professor Veroff is revered by his students and colleagues
for his lively mind, excited spirit, and unfailing generosity.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joseph Veroff
professor emeritus of psychology and research scientist emeritus.
Glenn E. Watkins, the Earl V. Moore Professor of Music (music history/
musicology), will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Raised in Kansas, Professor Watkins enlisted in the army on his
seventeenth birthday and later served in MacArthur's headquarters in Tokyo.
Following discharge, he earned his A.B. (1948) and M.Mus. (1949) degrees
from the University of Michigan and his Ph.D. degree in musicology from the
Eastman School of Music in 1953. He was a Fulbright Scholar in London and
Oxford during 1953-54, after which he taught at Southern Illinois University
(1954-58) and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (1958-63).
Professor Watkins joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1963 as
associate professor of music and was promoted to professor in 1966. He has
held the title of Earl V. Moore Professor of Music since 1984.
Professor Watkins' honors include an award from the American Council
of Learned Societies (1962), a National Book Award nomination for Gesualdo:
The Man and His Music, and a Pulitizer Prize nomination for Pyramids at
the Louvre. He has received distinguished alumnus achievement awards from
both the University of Michigan (1986) and the Eastman School of Music
(1996).
In his earliest scholarly work, Watkins edited four volumes of the sacred
music of Carlo Gesualdo. This served as impetus for his now-famous book on
Gesualdo. In May 1995, an opera based on the life of Gesualdo (by the
Russian composer Alfred Schnittke, with whom Watkins collaborated in 1992)
premiered at the Vienna State Opera. This afforded Watkins, who spoke from
the stage of the opera house at a matinee, yet another opportunity as
protagonist for the composer who has loomed large in much of his scholarly
career.
Professor Watkins is also a scholar of 20th century music. His panoramic
survey of 20th century music, Soundings, has become a standard text in
universities and conservatories throughout the country. His most recent
book, Pyramids at the Louvre, examines, among other things, "the subtlety
and power of interdisciplinary collusion between music and the other arts."
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Glenn E.
Watkins the Earl V. Moore Professor Emeritus of Music (music history/
musicology).


350




May Meeting, 1997


Memorial Statements. Secretary Palmer submitted two memorial
statements.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on April 27, 1997, of Robert Lyons Danly, professor of
Japanese language and literature, award-winning writer and translator, and
former director of the Center for Japanese Studies.
Born on January 3, 1947, in Oak Park, Illinois, Professor Danly received
his bachelor's degree from Yale University in 1969 and spent three years as a
copywriter for the Asian Advertising Agency in Tokyo before returning to
Yale to complete his doctorate in 1980. He joined the University faculty in
1979. A popular teacher, Professor Danly received the Class of 1923 Award
for outstanding teaching of undergraduates in 1984. He was also dedicated to
training graduate students, some of whom now teach in important institutions
across the country. From 1982-86, he directed a popular translation workshop
for the Program in Comparative Literature. He also served as director of the
Center for Japanese Studies from 1987-93 and was instrumental in
transforming the center's publications program into one of the most highly
regarded American publishers for studies of Japanese literature, culture, and
history.
A leading expert in Japanese literature, Professor Danly achieved
distinction when his first book, In the Shade of Spring Leaves: The Life and
Writings ofHiguchi Ichiyo, A Woman of Letters in Meiji Japan, published by
Yale University Press in 1981, won the 1982 National Book Award for
translation. He edited selections of Japanese literature for The Norton
Anthology of World Masterpieces, writing introductions to guide Western
readers. At the time of his death, Professor Danly had completed a book
manuscript titled Worldly Reckonings, an annotated translation of Seken
munezan'yo (1692) by Ihara Saikaku. Shortly before he became ill in the fall
of 1995, he had begun a new translation for Norton Press of the Tale of Genji,
the great masterpiece of Japanese prose fiction written by Murasaki Shikibu
in the eleventh century.
Professor Danly will be greatly missed as a scholar, teacher, colleague,
and friend. As we mourn the loss of this distinguished colleague, our
condolences go to his parents, Donald and Mary Danly, and his three sisters,
Christina Denton, Beth Burtt, and Catharine Zoufal.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on March 22, 1997, of Takaharu Yamakawa, associate
librarian in the University Library.
Mr. Yamakawa was born in Japan in 1937. He received his B.A. degree
from Aichi University of Education in Nagoya, Japan, his M.A. degree from
Southern Illinois University, and his A.M.L.S. degree in 1977 from the
University of Chicago. He joined the staff of the University Library as an
assistant librarian in 1977.
During his tenure at the University of Michigan, Mr. Yamakawa worked
in the Asia Library, the Map Library, and in Special Formats Cataloging. He
is recognized for the excellence of his work in the cataloging of Japanese
materials, rare maps, and the Shakespeare Collection and in the provision of


351




May Meeting, 1997


reference services. In addition, he contributed to the strength of the Library's
collection by serving as the selector for the field of linguistics.
Mr. Yamakawa, known to his friends and colleagues in the library and on
campus as Yama, brought to his work his sincere dedication to the well-being
of the library as well as wit, humor, and a sense of camaraderie. As we
mourn the loss of this distinguished librarian, our condolences go to his wife,
Karen, and his daughter, Ellie.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
consent agenda.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl Smith, director of University audits, submitted the regular Six
Month Report on University Audits.
Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133
Audit Reports and Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1996
and Summary of Recommendations and Responses to Nonmaterial
Findings as reported by Ernst & Young LLP
Associate Vice President Herbert submitted the Federal Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133 Audit Reports and Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1996, and the summary of recommendations and
responses to nonmaterial findings as reported by Ernst & Young LLP.
Active Commodities Investment
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the MS Commodity Investment Portfolio II, L.P., as
an actively managed commodity investment vehicle, pending favorable legal
review of the documents by the general counsel's office.
Alternative Asset Investments
Wind Point Partners III, L.P. Associate Vice President Herbert submitted a recommendation for commitment of $15 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to two venture capital investments: Wind Point Partners III, L.P.,
and Advent International Global Private Equity III Limited Partnership. He:
pointed out that negotiation is ongoing regarding covering the costs for
establishing the Wind Point office in the state of Michigan. The desire on the
part of the partnership is that those costs be covered by the Michigan investors.
Regent Newman expressed concern about the University being required
by the state to help fund the cost of establishing a Wind Point office in the
state, since it was state officials who chose an out-of-state firm. In response
to her question about the benefit of having an office in Michigan, Mr.
Herbert responded that the presence of a venture capital firm would enhance
the state's image in this area, and that this is critical to increasing the
amount of venture capital funds available.


352




May Meeting, 1997


President Bollinger observed that the University is participating with
the state in this as a willing partner in helping to achieve a goal that has
been set by the state. Regent McFee pointed out that this would facilitate
the University's technology transfer efforts.
Advent International Global Private Equity Ill Limited Partnership. Associate Vice President Herbert described the proposed investment in
this fund, noting that it seeks to invest in profitable companies in Europe,
North America, and Asia.
Regent McGowan moved that $5.0 million of the Long Term Portfolio be
committed to Wind Point Partners III, L.P., and $10.0 million be committed
to Advent International Global Private Equity III Limited Partnership,
pending favorable review of the documents by the general counsel's office.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Pledge of General Revenues to Replace Specific Revenues for Tax
Exempt Debt
Associate Vice President Herbert noted that as a constitutionally
autonomous body constituting a coequal fourth branch of state government,
the Regents are empowered to structure the University's debt. In the past,
this debt has been covered by pledges of specific revenue streams. It is now
proposed that the University improve this structure by financing its projects
using tax exempt debt backed by a general revenue pledge instead of a
specific revenue pledge. The proposed general revenue pledge will include
student fees; revenues from athletics, housing, Institute of Continuing Legal
Education, Management Education, and parking; and unrestricted gifts,
grants, and investment earnings. It will not include state appropriations,
Hospital gross revenues, and Medical Service Plan revenues.
Benefits of the general revenue pledge are that it will simplify the
approach to the issuance of debt and offer more broadly-based security for
the bondholder. It will afford greater flexibility for the University, will
minimize SEC disclosure requirements, and lower costs.
Following some discussion of the differences between the debt practices
of public and private institutions, President Bollinger requested that a legal
analysis be performed at some point in the future.
Regent McFee moved adoption of the following resolution:
Be it resolved that the Regents intend to use a general revenue
financing pledge for all future projects of the University, excluding
projects of the Hospital or Medical Service Plan. The general revenue
pledge will not include state appropriations, Hospital gross revenues,
and Medical Service Plan revenues.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Renovation Projects
Regarding the State Street Park N Ride project, Associate Vice
President Herbert noted that this agreement parallels a previous agreement


353




May Meeting, 1997


with the city of Ann Arbor for the Green Road Pilot Park N Ride project, in
which the city funds construction of a parking lot and the University
assumes responsibility for maintaining the lot. This will help the city as it
implements recently announced plans for parking structure renovations that
will result in the temporary loss of a number of city parking spaces.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the Central Campus Recreation Building
Direct Digital Controls retrofit project and the State Street Park N Ride
project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Canham Natatorium Building Renewal
Associate Vice President Herbert reviewed the problems that have
developed in the Donald B. Canham Natatorium involving water quality, air
quality, and the building envelope, as well as the solutions that have been
proposed to solve these problems (details are contained in the Regents
Communication).
In response to a question from Regent Newman regarding possible
liability on the part of the firm that designed the facility, Associate Vice
President Herbert stated that the University has determined that there is no
responsibility or liability for this situation on the part of the design firm.
Regarding the revenues to be used to pay for the project, he noted that the
financing would be secured by a pledge of general revenues but internally
paid from intercollegiate athletics revenues.
Regent Newman stated it was her understanding that football prices had
been raised partially to fund this project. It was noted that this was one of
several projects contemplated by the Department of Athletics for these funds
because of the ongoing need for physical facilities renovation in that
department.   Associate Vice President Herbert noted that specific
authorization for approval of the financing plan will be sought once the
renovation plan and timing has been specified. The project is not slated to
begin until April 1998; financing will not be necessary until closer to that
time.
It was also pointed out that temporary adjustments have been made to
alleviate any potential health risks associated with the current condition of
the facility.
Following further discussion, Regent Horning moved approval of the
Canham Natatorium Renewal Project, as described in the Regents Communication.  Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Relocation and Expansion of
Radiology Services at Briarwood
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for relocation and expansion of UM
Hospitals Radiology Services from its current location in the Briarwood Mall
area to larger quarters in that area, as described in the Regents


354




May Meeting, 1997


Communication. Regent McGowan was away from the table when the vote
was taken.
Purchasing Contract with Clark-MXR, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a purchasing contract between the
University of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc. Because Gerard Mourou is both
a partial owner of Clark-MXR and a University employee, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the
University of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research
include the purchase of two each, #OCR-1000 Nd:YAG Khz
Pumplasers, quotation #97-0311-1, dated 3/11/97, for a total of
$95,000.00.
3.  Professor Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his position as
partial owner of Clark-MXR, Inc.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Loyola
University
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Newman, all six
Regents present unanimously approved an agreement between the
University of Michigan and Loyola University involving subcontracts to
Loyola University to support the collaboration of Dr. Brian Nickoloff in
carrying out the work of three grants from the National Institutes of Health.
Because Dr. Nickoloff maintains a visiting associate professorship position
with the University of Michigan as well as a position with Loyola University,
this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and
Loyola University.
2.  Terms: Under Project 1, a total subcontract of approximately $36,168
is planned for the period May 1996 to April 1999. Under Project 2, a
total subcontract of $73,040 is planned for the period June 1996 to
May 1999. Under Project 3, a total subcontract of $50,372 is planned
for the period August 1, 1996, to July 31, 2000. The University's
standard subcontract will apply.
3.  Dr. Nickoloff s appointment at the University of Michigan is without
compensation.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Rad
Chem Services, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Horning, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a research agreement between the
University of Michigan and Rad Chem Services, Inc. ("Rad Chem") for the


355




May Meeting, 1997


use of the Phoenix Memorial Laboratory (PML) by Rad Chem. Because
Henry C. Griffin and James E. Martin are both University of Michigan
employees and owners of and paid consultants to Rad Chem, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Rad
Chem Services, Inc. (Rad Chem).
2.  Terms of the agreement will be consistent with University policy
regarding similar services. The activity will be conducted over a
two-year period at published user rates initially totaling $7,200. The
budget includes indirect cost at the specialized service facility rate
for the PML. No faculty or staff salaries are included in the budget.
3.  Drs. Griffin and Martin may receive direct compensation from Rad
Chem but will not have a portion of their University effort supported
by this research project. Dr. Ronald Fleming, director of PML, will
be technically and fiscally responsible for the conduct of the contract.
Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and
the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan (ERIM)
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a research subcontract between
University of Michigan and the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan
(ERIM). Because two ERIM employees working on this subcontract (Robert
G. Onstott and Kenneth W. Fischer) are also employees of the University of
Michigan, this subcontract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, International, Inc.
(ERIM).
2.  Terms of the agreement: The primary grant from the Office of
Naval Research to the University of Michigan is for $333,504. The
total subcontract from the UM to ERIM is for $23,500. The ONR
funding will come to the UM, and then the amount of the
subcontract would be paid by the UM to ERIM in two separate
increments.
3.  Neither Robert Onstott nor Kenneth Fischer will be working at the
University of Michigan on the ONR award.
Department of Family Practice Name Change
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of
Family Practice to the Department of Family Medicine.
Department of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education Name Change
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of
356




May Meeting, 1997


Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education to the Department
of Medical Education.
UM-Dearborn Department of Management, Marketing, Information
Systems and Decision Sciences Name Change
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of
Management, Marketing, Information Systems and Decision Sciences at the
UM-Dearborn School of Management to the Department of Management
Studies.
New Degree Program for UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
(Master of Arts in Education)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved establishment of a Master of Arts in
Education degree program in the College of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Michigan-Flint.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1998
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the following meeting schedule for 1998:
January 15-16         July 16-17
February 19-20        August no meeting
March 19*-20          September 17-18
April 16-17           October 15**-16
May 14-15             November 19-20
June 18-19            December 17-18
J*    Held at UM-Dearborn
Held at UM-Flint
Regent McGowan suggested that the Regents hold another meeting on
North Campus at a future date, at either the College of Art and Design, the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, or the School of Music.
Closed Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of
Regents meet in closed session on May 16, 1997, in the Regents' Room,
at 9:30 a.m., for the purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding
trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending
litigation (section 8e) and of considering material exempt from
discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act


357




May Meeting, 1997


(section 8h). Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from
the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
There followed a short recess.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened at 4:00 p.m. and heard comments from the
following individuals on the topics indicated: Audrey Jackson, citizen, about
the conduct of a University staff member; and Flora Walker, president of
Michigan Council 25 of AFSCME, about labor-management relations,
outsourcing, and reductions in force.
Friday, May 16, 1997
The Regents met in public session at 11:25 a.m., following the
conclusion of their executive session. Present were President Bollinger and
Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, Newman, and Power. Also present were
Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, and Neidhardt,
Associate Vice President Herbert, and Secretary Palmer. Regents Taylor,
Horning, and McGowan, and Chancellors Nelms and Renick were absent.
UM Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report
President Bollinger called on Mr. David Southwell, associate hospital
director for finance, who presented a comparative statistic report for
University of Michigan Hospitals for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1996.
The report included financial ratios covering three major components of
financial performance: profitability, liquidity, and capital structure, and
compared the UM Hospitals' ratios to the average of Standard & Poors "AA"
rated hospitals, teaching hospitals, and all hospitals.  The report also
included patient activity statistics comparing UM Hospitals' activity levels
with those of other teaching hospitals and all hospitals.
In general, profitability ratios were lower than they have been in the
past; liquidity and capital structure statistics were generally favorable; and
patient activity statistics were very favorable.
Following the presentation, Regent Power asked when the statistics for
fiscal year 1996-97 would be available. Mr. Southwell responded that
year-end information would be available in late July, and that a preview of
the forecast would be included as part of the Health System budget
presentation to the Board at its June meeting. Regent Power observed that
the Board and president are very interested in financial conditions both at
UM Hospitals and within the health care industry, and that it would be very
helpful to them to be kept current in these areas.


358




May Meeting, 1997


Report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty
(CESF)
President Bollinger called on Professor Robert Lindsey, chair of CESF,
who presented the annual CESF report. The report concentrated on three
areas:  compensation policy, benefits, and faculty compensation levels.
Professor Lindsey noted that the committee has drafted a set of faculty
compensation guidelines which will be submitted to the Faculty Senate for
wider debate and then discussed with the provost. Regarding benefits, the
committee believes that the University benefits program is strong and
endorses the increasing range of choices being made available through the
flexible benefits program. He urged that faculty continue to be included in
discussions of contemplated benefits changes.  With regard to faculty
compensation, Professor Lindsey noted that the University's salaries lag
behind those of the top private universities, but are competitive with those of
the best public institutions.
Regent McFee observed that the total compensation package involves
much more than simply the salary figure.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:00
noon. The next meeting is scheduled for June 12-13, 1997. Regents' expenses
for April 1997 totaled $1,425.90.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


359



