
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
July 1989 - June 1990
The University of Michigan




JULY MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 20, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice
Presidents Johnson and Womack, and Interim Vice President Kelly were also present,
as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters and Vice President Cosovich
were absent.
1989-90 General Fund Operating Budget, UM-Ann Arbor
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and yielded the floor to
Provost Vest for presentation of the proposed 1989-90 General Fund Operating
Budget.
Provost Vest reviewed the budget preparation process and said that the
University had originally proposed an increment of $51.1 million in the total General
Fund budget in order to meet its needs for 1989-90. This included minimum needs of
$32.7 million to be provided by the state and the University (for new space operating
costs, research excellence fund recovery, and other needs), $5.5 million to be provided
by the University through reallocation (for restoration and new initiatives), and $12.5
million to come from the University, as possible, to meet other critical needs. He
displayed a graph illustrating a decline in the proportion of the General Fund that is
derived from state appropriation of from nearly 80% in 1960 to about 45% anticipated
for the coming fiscal year. That has meant that the General Fund has had to rely
increasingly on tuition and fees to make up the shortfall, so that in the coming year,
90% of the General Fund will consist of equal proportions of income from state
appropriation and tuition and fees (the remaining 10% is derived from indirect cost
recovery and investment income).
The increase in General Fund revenue from all sources for 1989-90 will amount
to only $43.4 million, which is less than the $51.1 million that is required. Therefore,
the Provost described a number of steps that will be taken to make up the shortfall.
These include cost reduction measures, internal reallocation, and revenue measures.
He emphasized that because of the University's policy that it will meet the
demonstrated financial need of all Michigan resident undergraduate students, any
increase in tuition and fees results in a corresponding increase in student financial aid.
For 1989-90, that increase will amount to $6.1 million.
Regent Baker observed that the 1989-90 increase reflects only about 10% of the
total of about $60 million that the University will spend on financial aid. In response
to a question from Regent Brown, President Duderstadt said that almost two-thirds of
students attending the University of Michigan receive financial aid.
Regent Power complimented Provost Vest on his clear statement of the


-1 -



July Meeting, 1989


University's policy that it will meet the demonstrated financial need of all resident
undergraduate students. He suggested that because of its importance to students and
their families, this policy should be broadly disseminated.
Following further remarks detailing the 1989-90 General Fund budget
recommendations, Provost Vest announced a proposed increase in student tuition
rates of 9.6% for resident undergraduate students, and 10% for non-resident
undergraduates. The proposed increase in graduate student tuition rates for both
resident and non-resident students is 10% (excluding the College of Business
Administration and the Law School, for which the proposed increase is 12%).
Provost Vest noted that these rates compare favorably with those of other
Michigan public universities and with other Big Ten public institutions. The tuition
cost of $3,474 at the University of Michigan is particularly favorable for Michigan
undergraduates when compared to the cost of tuition for a Michigan resident at its
peer institutions, most of which range from $12,000 to almost $15,000. Regent Baker
remarked that the University of Michigan still remains one of the outstanding bargains
in higher education in the United States.
Provost Vest concluded by reviewing the budget objectives, which are to target
the highest priorities of the Umversity (the quality of education, maintaining student
access through financial aid, and achieving diversity and affirmative action through the
Michigan Mandate), provide incentives to attract resources, and provide budget
flexibility.
Regent Roach asked why the tuition increases were higher for the Business
Administration and Law School programs. Provost Vest responded that this was due
to a belief that these two courses of study had particularly high income potentials, and
also that market forces indicate the University's tuition levels for these programs were
significantly lower than those at comparable institutions. Regent Roach noted that
this philosophy is different from that of the past, when cost was not a factor in choice
of field of study. He suggested that it be reviewed from a long-term policy perspective.
Discussion then turned to the meaning of the term "reallocation". Provost Vest
explained that it means "phasing out". In response to a question from Regent Baker,
he said that some of the affects of reallocation have been a decrease in the amount of
laboratory instruction, a decrease in the student/faculty ratio over the long term, and
the transferral of some essential services, such as secretarial support, off of the
General Fund.
1989-90 General Fund Operating Budget, UM-Dearborn
President Duderstadt than called on Chancellor Wilson to present the 1989-90
General Fund Operating Budget for UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Wilson described
four major issues that shaped the budget: salary parity, tuition levels, the relationship
between enrollment and state appropriations, and the level of debt service in the
UM-Dearborn budget.
To achieve faculty salary parity equivalent with the average at other Michigan
Class IIA institutions, $400,000 would have to be added to the budget. Staff salary
parity with the averages at other class IIA institution would cost $1.7 million. As a
first step in achieving these goals, the Dearborn Policy Council has decided to


-2 -



July Meeting, 1989


reallocate 1% of current General Fund expenditures for a special merit-based salary
program for continuing faculty and staff. The ultimate goal is for UM-Dearborn
salaries to reach a level of the 80th percentile of Michigan Class IIA salaries.
Chancellor Wilson emphasized that as competition for faculty increases in the 1990's,
salaries will have to become increasingly more competitive in order for the
UM-Dearborn to be able to maintain its market position.
Chancellor Wilson then pointed out that the UM-Dearborn receives the lowest
state appropriation per headcount of all other Michigan Class IIA institutions, and the
second lowest per number of fiscal year equated students. The UM-Dearborn is also
at a disadvantage in that 3.5% of the General Fund budget, or $1 million, is
earmarked for debt service; this is the largest proportion of debt service in relation to
General Fund budget of any university in the state.
To help balance the budget and maintain academic excellence, the
UM-Dearborn will combine internal reallocation measures with a proposed tuition
increase of 9.6% for resident undergraduate students and 9.9% for resident graduate
students and all non-resident students.
1989-90 General Fund Operating Budget, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones described the proposed incremental 1989-90 General Fund
operating budget for the Flint campus as being $1 million short of its original $3.2
million request. This means that the UM-Flint will have to postpone or cut back on
some of its critical needs; for instance, it will not be able to establish an equipment
fund necessary to maintain the new Science Building equipment. The shortfall will
also delay the development of the campus's computing capabilities.
Salaries are also of primary concern on the Flint campus; assistant professors
are paid the least of any assistant professors at Flint's peer state institutions, and
salaries of full professors are similarly uncompetitive.
To help balance its budget, the UM-Flint is proposing a tuition and fee increase
of 9.6% for all categories of students. Chancellor Jones noted that even after this
increase, the UM-Flint will remain on eof the least costly of the four-year state
universities.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Chancellor Jones explained that
until last year the state provided all operating funds for new facilities. Last year, the
state cut this back to 50% of the necessary operating funds. That meant that the Flint
campus had to reallocate $150,000 from other programs during the past fiscal year to
pay for half of the $300,000 operating expenses of the new Science Building. It is
hoped that the state will resume full funding during the 1989-90 year.
Current Status of State Budget Request
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Kennedy to report on the current
status of the budget request in the state legislature. Vice President Kennedy said that
the legislature had established a target of $17.6 million over the Governor's
recommendation; that would represent an average increase per institution of 4.5 to
5% over last year's level. He reminded the Regents, however, that the University's
incremental needs surpass that amount. He noted that the budget was scheduled to be


-3 -



July Meeting, 1989


enacted the following week.
In response to a question from Regent Power, President Duderstadt noted that
the Provost and his staff had made a contingency plan in the case that the final
appropriation was less than what was anticipated. He praised the governor and the
legislature for their efforts in trying to respond to the urgent needs of higher
education. He said that action on the 1989-90 student fees would occur the next day.
1989-90 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Johnson said that the Regents were being asked to approve an
increase in the University Health Service fee of $3.00 per student per term, which
amounts to 4.3%. This rate is below the 1988 Consumer Price Index for medical
service, which was 7.3%.
Regent Roach said that it was remarkable that for each year since 1982, in real
dollars the costs have decreased, which is especially remarkable in a health care
setting. In his opinion, this indicated very good management.
1989-90 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly, Michigan Collegiate
Coalition, and School/College Governments; Michigan Student Assembly Financial
Controls
Vice President Johnson said that this year he was proposing an increase of $0.49
per student per term for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), and that the fees of $0.35
for Michigan Collegiate Coalition (MCC) and $1.00 for school and college
governments remain the same. A large portion of the increase for Michigan Student
Assembly (approximately $22,000) would be used to finance repayment of a
three-year, $50,000 loan to MSA. The purpose of the loan is to eliminate the
approximate $50,000 deficit MSA will have for fiscal year 1989.
There followed a lengthy discussion about Michigan Student Assembly's
financial situation. Mr. Rodger Wolf, a Certified Public Accountant and assistant to
Vice President Johnson, was present to respond to Regents' concerns. Mr. Wolf
explained that $50,000 had been owed to Student Legal Services (SLS) as of 8/31/88.
Mr. John Forczak, director of Student Legal Services, who was present at the
meeting, stated that SLS had been unaware of the shortfall owed it by MSA. His
understanding was that as of 8/31/88, MSA owed SLS $52,000; $21,000 of that
represented their August 1988 allocation, which they received in September. SLS was
therefore left with a $30,000 underpayment from MSA, not $50,000, according to him.
Mr. Forczak stated that SLS had revised its budget when it learned of the $30,000
payment owed it by MSA.
Regent Nielsen objected to MSA's borrowing money at the expense of future
students to cover a debt incurred on behalf of a group (Student Legal Services) which,
to his understanding, appeared already to have a surplus. Regent Nielsen thought that
Student Legal Services should discount the money owed it by MSA so that MSA would
not have to borrow the money. Regent Smith agreed, noting that future students
should not have to pay for past mistakes of MSA.
Regent Roach noted that the Board's policy had always been to let MSA


-4 -



July Meeting, 1989


determine how to appropriate its fee allocation, and that the solution to MSA's
financial difficulty should originate with MSA. Regent Baker observed that it was
important to consider how to prevent a similar situation from happening again, and
suggested that one solution would be for the Regents to allocate only those funds
required to run each MSA-sponsored organization, not to cover surpluses.
Regent Power inquired about the proposed new accounting procedures. He
suggested that the annual report of MSA's financial activities, including the audit, the
management letter, and MSA's response to the management letter, be made available
to the Regents prior to their making budget decisions. It was agreed that this
suggestion will be incorporated into MSA's financial action plan. However, Regents
Roach and Power pointed out that the traditional August 31 date for the end of MSA's
fiscal year would hamper efforts to institute the financial controls over MSA, because
the Regents' MSA fee decisions would be based on the work of the previous MSA
administration. They suggested that a change in the fiscal year end to December 31
would allow the Regents to have a more current picture of MSA's financial situation,
as it would enable the Regents to exercise oversite of each MSA administration during
its term of office.
Regent Baker asked Vice President Johnson to confirm his understanding of
what was being done to prevent this situation from happening again. Vice President
Johnson confirmed that his office would be conducting an ongoing internal review of
MSA's financial transactions, as described in the Regents Communication, and that
there would be an external audit and management letter which the Regents would
receive prior to considering the next year's funding request.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of June 22 and 23, 1989.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports on investment transactions,
plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Report on Non-Competitive Purchases over $2,000 from Single Sources, April 1,
1989 through June 30, 1989. Vice President Womack commented on the
non-competitive legal transactions listed in this report, which include a blanket order
for $500,000 to the firm of Butzel, Long. Of that amount, he said that the University
will probably actually spend $350,000 to $400,000.
He stated that the University has made a decision that the number of attorneys
in-house would be "sufficient to handle the general practice of law", but that for
specialized cases, such as those involving personnel, malpractice, bonds, and
intellectual property matters, the University is better served by hiring outside counsel.
Vice President Womack noted that the University's new general counsel has expressed
an interest in examining legal fees paid to outside counsel, and in studying whether
more legal work should be done in-house. However, he reiterated that he did not feel
that it would be good business practice to have a substantial amount of the work done
in-house. "We believe that we should do as much of the general practice of law
in-house as we can do most effectively from a cost and from a performance


-5 -



July Meeting, 1989


standpoint."
Regent Nielsen commented that he would be reluctant to hire a large in-house
staff to handle litigation, given the type of litigation the University engages in. He
thought that the University is better served by hiring outside firms with specialized
areas of expertise to handle litigation. However, he felt that the University should
re-evaluate which firms it hires, with particular emphasis on whether it is necessary to
hire Detroit law firms to do work that could be handled by local firms.
Regent Roach disagreed that the University is being over-charged for legal
services. He noted that in general, the law firms the University has used have an
excellent record and have served the University well. He also pointed out that the
most expensive element of outside legal services has been in the area of labor
relations, which is the specialty of Butzel, Long.
Vice President Womack read from a memorandum written by John Ketelhut,
the acting general counsel, which stated that he regularly reviewed attorneys' fees, and
that these reviews have, in many cases, resulted in revised bills. He reiterated that his
current judgement is that the University would not be well-served by building a large
in-house staff, although this matter will be reviewed by the new general counsel.
Regent Varner requested information about the cost of legal services related to
operation of the University Medical Center. Vice President Womack agreed to obtain
this information.
Research reports. Regent Power welcomed Interim Vice President for
Research William C. Kelly to the table. Vice President Kelly submitted the report of
Projects Established, Research and Other Academic Activities, June 1 - June 30, 1989,
and a report on Research Volume Statistics.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
The President said that the final report of fiscal-year gift receipts, including the
totals for the month of June, will be included in the September agenda.
Personnel Actions
Provost Vest noted the appointment of five individuals to Arthur F. Thurnau
professorships, which recognize contributions to undergraduate education. He also
pointed out the appointments of three faculty members to Distinguished University
Professorships, as well as the appointments of Professor Edie Goldenberg as dean of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and J. Bernard Machen as dean of the
School of Dentistry.
Regarding the impending departure of Peter Steiner as dean of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Provost Vest expressed his personal appreciation for
the great leadership that he has shown that college. "His legacy will certainly be one
of an outstanding college," he noted, "and one whose faculty quality has been
established very directly due to Dean Steiner's efforts over the years."


-6 -



July Meeting, 1989


Chancellor Wilson noted the appointment of Donna L. McKinley as dean of
Student Affairs at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel appointments:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Charles A. Cain, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Director of the
Bioengineering Program
Steven B. Dierker Ph.D  Associate Professor of Physics and Applied Physics
Glen E. Johnson, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
J. Bernard Machen, D.D.S., Ph.D., Dean of the School of Dentistry and Professor of Dentistry, for a
five-year term, October 1, 1989
Annemarie Sullivan Palincsar, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education
Bernard Weiss, M.D., Professor of Pathology, August 1, 1989
Sharon A. W. Weiss, M.D., Professor of Pathology and Director of the Division of Anatomic Pathology,
August 1, 1989
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Dean E. Brenner, M.D  Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of
Pharmacology, July 24, 1989
Heang-Ping Chan, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences and Associate Research Scientist
in the Department of Radiology, for a two-year term, October 1, 1989
Salam A. Syed, Ph.D., from Assistant to Associate Professor of Dentistry, August 1, 1989
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
David F. Bohr, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Donald R. Brown, Professor of Psychology, Director and Research Scientist, Center or esearch on
Learning and Teaching, and Co-Director, Inteflex Program, reappointed Director of the Center
for Research on Learning and Teaching, for a one-year term
Arthur W. Burks, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor
Emeritus of Philosophy, reappointed to active status, for a two-month period
Malcolm S. Cohen, Director, Co-Divisional Director, and Associate Research Scientist, Institute of Labor
and Industrial Relations, reappointed Director of the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations,
for a one-year term
M. David Curtis, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Chemistry,
reappointed Chair of the Department of Chemistry, for a two-year term
David G. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period, September 1, 1989
Ronald Gibala, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure and Chair of the
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, reappointed Chair of the Department of
Materials Science and Engineering, for a ive-year term
Joseph E. Hawkins, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, reappointed to active status, for a
one-year period, August 1, 1989
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status for a one-year period
Glenn F. Knoll, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Nuclear
Engineering, reappointed Chair of the Department of Nuclear Engineering, for a six-month term
John E. Milholland Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to active status, for the Academic
year, 1989-90
James V. Neel, Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine,
reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Ronald H. Olsen, Professor of Microbiology, Associate Vice President for Research, and Director of the
Institute of Science and Technology, reappointed Associate Vice President for Research and
Director of the Institute of Science and Technology, for a two-year term, August 1, 1989


-7 -



July Meeting, 1989


Michael G. Parsons, Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, and Chair of
the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, reappointed Chair of the
Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, for a two-year term
George Piranian, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, for an eight-month
period, September 1, 1989
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
William S. Smith, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
March 1, 1989
Aaron M. Stern, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status for a one-year term, December 1, 1988
Kenneth E. Vance, Professor Emeritus of Library Science, reappointed to active status, for the Fall term,
1989, September 1, 1989
E. Benjamin Wyie, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Civil
Engineering, reappointed Chair of the Department of Civil Engineering, for a five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
John C. Bilello, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
appointed Professor of Applied Physics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, for the University year, September 1, 1989
Kenneth J. DeWoskin, Professor of Chinese Lan  and Literature with tenure, appointed Chair of the
David H. Garabrant, Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure Department of
Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, appointed Associate Professor of
Occupational Medicine, without tenure, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, for a
one-year term
Edie N. Goldenberg, from Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, Director and Research
Scientist, Institute of Public Policy Studies, and Faculty Associate, Center for Political Studies, to
Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for a five-year term, Professor of
Political Science and Public Policy, Research Scientist, Institute of Public Policy Studies, and
Faculty Associate, Center for Political Studies, September 1, 1989
John E. Jackson, Professor of Political Science, with tenure College of Literature Science, and the Arts,
appointed Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration, for a threeyear term, September 1, 1989
Michael A. Marletta Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, without tenure,
College of Pfarmacy, appointed Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure,
Medical School, for a five-year term
Jane A. Romatowski, Professor of Education and Assistant Dean of the School of Education,
UM-Dearborn, appointed Interim Dean of the School of Education, UM-Dearborn, until a new
dean takes office August 1 1989
Dwight W. Stevenson Professor of Humanities2 with tenure, appointed Assistant Dean for Continuing
Engineering Education, College of Engineering, for a five-year term, August 1 1989
Luke Y. Tsai, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure appointed Associate Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, for a three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Institute of Gerontology Executive Committee
Noreen M. Clark, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice June E. Osborn, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Geraldine Ford, reappointed for a three-year term, June 1, 1989 - May 31, 1992
Martha Cook Building Board of Governors
Catherine W. Davis, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992
Medical School Executive Committee
Barry I. Eisenstein, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1992, vice Thomas D. Gelehrter,
term expired
Sid Gilman, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1992, vice Raymond W. Ruddon, Jr.,
term expired


-8 -



July Meeting, 1989


Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
Albert C. Cain, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992
Friends of the Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Elizabeth DeVine, for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1987; term expires June 30, 1990
Robert Donia, reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1987 term expires June 30, 1990
Esther Gordy Edwards, reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1988; term expires
June 30, 1991
Dexter Ferry, for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1988; term expires June 30, 1991
Betty Bonisteel Johnson, reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1988; term expires
June 30, 1991
Hendrik Meijer, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1989; term expires June 30, 1992
Eugene B. Power, reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1988; term expires June 30,
1991
Ann Marie Pratt reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1988; term expires June 30, 1991
Nikoletta T. Sobkowsl, for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1987; term expires June 30, 1990
Neil Staebler, reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1987; term expires June 30, 1990
Nancy Quirk Williams, reappointed for a three-year term, retroactive to July 1, 1987; term expires
Michigan Memorial-Pheonix Project Faculty Executive Committee
Arthur Rich, for a four-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1993, vice Kent M. Terwilliger, term expired
Charles F. Yocum, for a four-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1993, vice Isadore A. Bernstein, term
expired
Middle English Dictionary Council
Richard W. Bailey, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991, vice Thomas E. Toon, term expired
Robert L. Kyes, reappointed for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991
Military Officer Education Committee
Allan C. Brown, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice C. Philip Kearney, term expired
Charles E. Olson, Jr., for a two-year term July 1,1989 - June 30,1991. vice Shaw Livermore Jr., retired
Leon A. Pastalan, for a three-year term, July 1,1989 - June 30,1992, vice Charles E. Olson, r., term
expired
Division of Physical Education Executive Committee
Bernard P. Maloy, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991, vice Christine M. Brooks, term
expired
Guy G. Reiff, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991, vice Katarina T. Borer, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Lee C. Bolinger, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice Albert C. Cain, term expired
W. Reynolds Farley, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Marilyn S. Fries, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1992, vice George J. Bornstein,
term expired
Thomas A. Green, reappointed for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1992
John R. Knott, Jr., for a thee-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1992, vice John W. Hagen, term
expired
Rob Van Der Voo, to complete the term, September 1, 1987 - August 31, 1990, vice John H. Holland, on
leave
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute Executive Committee
Edward S. Davidson, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice Robert L. Smith, term
expired
Robert D. Ervin, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991, vice Thomas D. Gillespie, term expired
Edith S. Gomberg, reappointed for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991
Lewis H. Margolis, reappointed for a two-year term, Jury 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991
Michael Sivak, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992 vice David E. Cole, term expired
Richard E. Sonntag, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992


-9 -



July Meeting, 1989


Leaves of absence. The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for
Associate Professors Lawrence E. Blume, William J. Linn (UM-Dearborn), Joan M.
McGowan, Aldon D. Morris, and Anthony C. Woo, and for Instructor Robert J.
Schott.
Price Waterhouse Professor of Accounting. The Regents approved the
appointment of Victor L. Bernard as the Price Waterhouse Professor of Accounting,
for a five-year term, effective September 1, 1989.
Assistant Dean for Admissions and Student Services. The Regents approved
the appointment of Judith A. Goodman as Assistant Dean for Admissions and Student
Services in the School of Business Administration, for a twelve-month period, effective
September 1, 1989.
Senior Associate Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies. The
Regents approved a change in title of Susan S. Lipschutz from Associate Dean to
Senior Associate Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, for a fouryear term, effective September 1, 1989.
Dow Corning Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering. The Regents
approved the appointment of Stacy G. Bike as the Dow Corning Assistant Professor of
Chemical Engineering, for a three-year term, effective September 1, 1989.
Richard Hudson Research Professor of History. The Regents approved the
appointment of Geoffrey H. Eley as the Richard Hudson Research Professor of
History, for the Fall term, 1989.
Max Kade Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures. The
Regents approved the appointment of Christiaan L. Hart-Nibbrig as the Max Kade
Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, for the Fall term, 1989.
T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics. The Regents
approved the appointment of Alexander J. Izzo as the T. H. Hildebrandt Research
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for a three-year term, effective September 1,
1989.
Herbert C. Youtie Professor of Papyrology. The Regents approved the
appointment of Ludwig Koenen as the Herbert C. Youtie Professor of Papyrology,
effective September 1, 1989.
Theodore M. Newcomb Professor of Psychology. The Regents approved the
appointment of Richard E. Nisbett as the Theodore M. Newcomb Professor of
Psychology, effective September 1, 1989.
Visiting Netherlands Professor of History, Near Eastern Studies, and
Anthropology. The Regents approved the appointment of Helena W.A.M.
Sancisi-Weerdenburg as the Visiting Netherlands Professor of History, Near Eastern
Studies, and Anthropology, for the Academic year, 1989-90.
Toyota Visiting Associate Professor of Japanese Studies. The Regents approved
the appointment of Dorothy Eleanor Westney as the Toyota Visiting Associate
Professor of Japanese Studies, for the Academic year, 1989-90.


-10 -



July Meeting, 1989


Frederick A. Coller Professor of Surgery. The Regents approved the
appointment of Lazar J. Greenfield as the Frederick A. Coller Professor of Surgery,
for a five-year term, effective July 1, 1989.
Arthur F. Thurnau Professors. The Regents approved the appointments of
Frank E. Beaver, Mark E. Chesler, Peter A. Railton, David G. Shappiro, and James
0. Wilkes as Arthur F. Thurnau Professors, for three-year terms, effective July 1, 1989.
Distinguished University Professors. The Regents approved the appointments
of Richard D. Alexander as the Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University
Professor of Evolutionary Biology, Robert Axelrod as the Arthur W. Bromage
Distinguished University Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, and
Frederick C. Neidhardt as the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor
of Microbiology and Immunology, effective September 1, 1989.
Dean of Student Affairs at UM-Dearborn. The Regents approved the
appointment of Donna L. McKinley as Dean of Student Affairs at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, for a five-year term, effective August 1, 1989.
Appointment authorization. The Regents authorized the President or the
Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs to make such interim appointments
and/or changes during the month of August, 1989 as may become necessary to
complete the staffing for the Fall term.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Paula J. Capron, M.BA., Lecturer in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
September 1, 1989
Rabikar Chatterjee, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing, September 1, 1989
Ronen Israel, BA., Lecturer in Finance, September 1, 1989
Victor Kwok-Cheung Ng, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1989
Steve L. Slezak, Ph.D, Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1989
School of Dentistrv
Shelia Y. Kennebrew D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 7 1989
Kenneth B. May, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 14, 1989
School of Education
Joseph S. Krajcik, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, January 1, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michael D. Bonner, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies, September 1, 1989
Janis P. Hardwick Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, September 1, 1989
Anne K. Krook Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, September 1, 1989
Juan E. Leon BA. Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, September 1, 1989
Daniel P. O'Brien, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, September 1, 1989
Adela N. Pinch BA., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, September 1, 1989
Lloyd E. Sandelands, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Organizational Behavior and Human
Resource Management, June 1, 1989
Theresa L. Tinkle, MA., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, September 1, 1989
Rafia M. Zafar, MA., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, September 1, 1989


-11 -



July Meeting, 1989


Medical School
Neal B. Alexander M.D Instructor in Internal Medicine
Kathryn L. Cook, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Gary J. Faerber M.D., Instructor in Surgery
Christopher E. Griffiths, M.B.B.S, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, June 1, 1989
Katherie Gyves-Ray, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Karen S. Himebaugh, M.D., Clinical Instructor Ifi  Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 17, 1989
Cheryl A. King Ph.D. Instructor in Psychiatry, July 15, 1989
Steven N. Lan au, M.., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Craig A. Lundquist, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Mary V. Marx, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, August 1, 1989
Lawrence D. Mason, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Patrick W. McLaughlin, M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, June 15, 1989
Ingrid E. Nygaard,.D   Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 10, 1989
James H. Oestreicher, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1989
Rebecca A. Preston, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology
Gabriella C. Pridjian, M.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Ralph W. Richardson, M.D  Lecturer in Radiology
Howard M. Sandler, M.D., Assistant Professor o Radiation Oncology
Roger M. Saulson, M.D. Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1989
Alan E. Schlesinger M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, August 1, 1989
John S. Schultz, M.., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Hjordis Smith, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Robert A. Stem, Jr., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
James F. Szocik, M.D. Lecturer in Anesthesiology
John R. Tauscher M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Carl F. Tranisi, MD. Lecturer in Radiology
Jeffrey M. Zerm, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology
School of Music
HowardD. Watkins, M.Mus., Lecturer in Dance, September 1, 1989
School of Public Health
Mark P.-Becker, Ph.D  Assistant Professor of Biostatistics
Susan M. Szpunar, Dr.P.H., Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs, September 1, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
William J. Farrell, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, September 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989
Medical School
Ronald S. Adler, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Chris J. Dickinson, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Naomi M. Kane from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Roy M. Kulick, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Education
Marvin W. Peterson, Director of the Higher and Postsecondary Education and Professor of Education,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 - December 31, 1989
Teshome G. Wagaw, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Professor of Education, Center for
Afro-American and African Studies, without tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
College of Engineering
JohnH. Holland, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Professor
of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31 1990
David L. Neuhoff, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
John E. Taylor, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990


-12 -



July Meeting, 1989


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Rolena Adorno Professor of Latin American Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Samuel H. Barnes, Professor of Political Science, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31 1990
Severin J. Borenstein, Assistant Professor of Economics and Public Policy, research leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Christoph Borgers, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
John R. Chamberln, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
L. Ross Chambers, Marvin Felheim Distinguished University Professor of French and Comparative
Literature, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Michael D. Cohen, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
Mary E. Corcoran, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, and Professor of Social
Work, without tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Harry A. Douthit, Jr., Professor of Botany, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Patricia Y. Gurin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary, June 1 - 30, 1989 and
August 1 - 31, 1989
Peter E. Hook Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September I - December 31, 1989
Paramaraj Jeganathan, Assistant Professor of Statistics, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
Stephen Kaplan, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, without tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,1990
Thomas M. Kavanagh, Chair and Professor of French Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
January 1 - December 31, 1990
Arnold G. Kluge, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator of Amphibians and Reptiles, Museum of
Zoology, sabbatical leave, Jul 1 1989 - June 30,1990
Louis E. Loeb, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1- May 31, 1990
John W. Lott, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
David M. Lubman, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31 1989
Gregory B. Markus Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1990
D. W. Masser, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 1989 -May 31, 1990
Larry D. Nooden, Professor of Botany, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Gary M. Olson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - August 31,
1990
Robert M. Owen, Professor of Marine Geology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Richard H. Price, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Art J. Schwartz, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, research leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Medical School
Linda L. Brinkley, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, personal leave,
September 1, 1989 - June 30, 1990
Stephen Cooper, Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, June 29 - December 28, 1989
Melvin J. Guyer, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, April 1 - September 30,
1989
James A. Taren, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 - September 30, 1989
School of Nursing
Sandra K. Tucker, Assistant Professor of Nursing, personal leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
School of Public Health
Arthur Oleinick, Associate Professor of Public Health Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,
1989 - May 31, 1990
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Bruce S. Elenbogen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - April 30,
1990
Robert B. Smock, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - April 30,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Peter R. Gluck, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
-13 -



July Meeting, 1989


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
aymond E. Hill, Associate Professor of Human Resource Management, with tenure
Christopher P. Puto, Assistant Professor of Marketing, August 31, 1989
Jay R. Ritter, Assistant Professor of Finance
Thomas L. Stober, Assistant Professor of Accounting
Martin B. Zimmerman Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, and Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Dentisr
avid W. Austin, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30 1989
James L. Lockwood, Lecturer in Dentistry, Aprif 30 1989
Robert W. Miller, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1b89
Denise E. Turunen, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1989
Daron S. Yarjanian, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1989
Mark D. Zahn, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1989
School of Education
Ralph R. Rupp, Professor of Education and Audiology with tenure, and Professor of Communication,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Paul K. Dresch, Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Basil S. Georgopoulos, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, June 30, 1989
Chjan C. Lim, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Timothy J. McLarnan, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
James D. Morrow Assistant Professor of Political Science
Paul F. Ringseth, t. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Sheila Sundaram, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Aram A. Yengoyan, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Medical School
David K. Anderson, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1989
Herbert A. Berger, Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1989
Kenneth A. Buckwalter, Assistant Professor of Radiology, June 30, 1989
Kathleen H. Caron Lecturer in Radiology June 30 1989
Anthony P. Coral, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30 1989
Norman A. Ernst, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Jufy 15, 1989
John M. Faustr.,, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1989
Joseph C. Glorioso III, Assistant Dean Tor Research and Graduate Studies, Professor of Microbiology,
Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, without tenure, June 30, 1989
Barry Gubin, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1989
Gregory E. Guyl Lecturer in Radiology June 30, 1989
Deborah D. Jeffries Lecturer in Radiofogy June 26, 1989
Kathleen H. Mayo, Lecturer in Surg    Lecture and ectr in Dentistry, June 30, 1989
Walter C. Noble, Lecturer in Surgery, June 30, 1989
David R. Pennes, Assistant Professor of Radiology June 30, 1989
Murray Rebner, Assistant Professor of Radiology, June 30, 1989
Jussi J. Saukkonen, Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1989
Richard Silbergleit, Instructor in Radiology, June 30, 1989
James F. Smick, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1989
Leon C. Terry, Professor of Neurology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Physiology, without
tenure
Catherine L. Webb, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1989
School of Music
Jeffrey G. Solow, Associate Professor of Music, without tenure
School of Nursine
Lauren S. Aaronson, Assistant Professor of Nursing, July 31, 1989
Arlene J. Blaha, Lecturer in Nursing
Cheryl E. Easley, Assistant Professor of Nursing
Mary C. Friedl, Lecturer in Nursing
M. Patricia Woodard, Lecturer in Nursing


-14 -



July Meeting, 1989


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Harry H. Blecker, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Sherrill J. Begres, Lecturer in Philosophy, August 31, 1989
UM-Flint School of Health Science
Eva M. Jarawan, Assistant Professor of Health Care
UM-Flint School of Management
Hossein Shalchi, Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure, June 30, 1989
Retirement Memoirs
The Regents voted unanimously to adopt the following Retirement Memoir:
Irene B. Tejada, assistant professor of art in the School of Art and assistant
professor of education in the School of Education, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1989, after 37 years of service.
Professor Tejada received her B.S. degree from Eastern Michigan University in
1941 and her M.Des. degree from the University of Michigan in 1942. She then
completed advanced work in library science. Professor Tejada began her career at the
University of Michigan in 1952 as a staff artist in the Audio Visual Education Center.
In 1955, she became art teacher at the University School, a position she held until the
school closed in 1970. She attained the rank of instructor in education in 1964,
assistant professor of education in 1974, and assistant professor of art in 1983. Before
beginning her work at the University of Michigan, she had taught at West Virginia
State College and had been an art teacher and art supervisor at schools in Detroit,
Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
As an instructor of art education for teachers, Professor Tejada believed that
the quality and substance of "kiddie art" should equal that of the most advanced
painting courses. She is also an expert on the use of indigenous materials in the
production of arts and crafts, and has a special interest in the use of a wide variety of
seeds in making graphic designs and ornaments. She is expert also on multi-ethnic art
techniques in the elementary school grades. Professor Tejada held memberships in
the National Art Education Association, Michigan Art Education Association, the
Ann Arbor Art Association, Handweavers of America, Puppeteers of America, and
Delta Kappa Gamma.
At the University School, Professor Tejada was extremely well regarded both by
her colleagues and by parents, who would attempt to enroll their children in
University School at birth so that they could have Professor Tejada as a teacher. She
initiated an arts festival which featured achievements of students in art, music,
industrial arts, and homemaking. Her students' art work was used in the production of
a videotape for teachers illustrating what school-age students can achieve. Professor
Tejada's high expectations for all students elicited artistic results that met those
expectations, and many of her students have made successful careers in the art world.
Her devoted following of former University School students still seek her out to tell
her of their accomplishments and to renew their close friendships with her. An
outstanding artist and graphic designer, her work has brought accolades from many
quarters.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her exemplary
career by naming Irene B. Tejada Assistant Professor Emeritus of Art and Assistant
Professor Emeritus of Education.


-15 -



July Meeting, 1989


Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authorities in each case, the Regents
approved several changes to previously approved degree lists. They also approved the
tentative doctoral degree list for the August, 1989 commencement.
Audit of Student Financial Assistance Programs, July 1, 1986 to June 30, 1988
The Regents received the report of an audit conducted by University Audits and
certified by Ernst & Whinney, whose purpose was to satisfy requirements of the U.S.
Department of Education.
Further Diversification of Endowment Assets
Vice President Womack submitted information relevant to a proposed further
diversification of endowment assets to be considered at a later date.
Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 1989-90
The Regents decided to table consideration of this request until the next day so
that they could consider information about the various other Law School endowments
that was distributed at the meeting, in an effort to determine how to fund
improvements to the facade of the Legal Research Building.
Proposed Purchase Contract between the University of Michigan and a Small Business
Owned and Operated by Two University Employees (Imperial Glass and Woodworks)
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Power seconded, and the six Regents present
(Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner) unanimously approved,
authorization for the University to enter into a contract with Imperial Glass and
Woodworks. This proposed contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute, since Imperial Glass and Woodworks is a small business co-owned by
University employees (William and Nancy Demarse). The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contract will be University of Michigan Hospitals and
Imperial Glass and Woodworks, Mr. and Mrs. William Demarse,
co-owners.
2. The terms of the contract include the design and fabrication of two
stained glass windows and hardware for installation. Total payment
of $4,571 will be made in two installments: $2,500 on receipt of order
and $2,071 due 30 days after completion. No University services,
facilities, or employees will be utilized in the performance of this
contract.
3. The total payment in this contract is $4,571.


-16 -



July Meeting, 1989


1000 Broadway, Ann Arbor
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Smith seconded, approval of the purchase of
the property under the Riverview Building at 1000 Broadway for $45,000. The motion
was approved unanimously.
C.C. Little Building Geochemistry Lab
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the construction of a low temperature
geochemistry wet laboratory in an area on the first floor of the C.C. Little Building.
North Campus Family Housing Community Center
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Power seconded, approval of a revised
budget for construction of the North Campus Family Housing Community Center.
They also authorized award of the construction contract to TAI Construction
Management of Ann Arbor.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property
By unanimous vote of all six Regents present (Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner), the Regents approved reassignment of the University's
ownership interest in a statistics pretest to its employee/inventor, Reg Arthur
Williams. This arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute, as Mr. Williams is a University employee who will be party to the assignment
agreement. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.    Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University and
Reg Arthur Williams.
2, 3.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987 and are hereby
incorporated by reference in this Action Request.
In response to the discussion that followed, Vice President Kelly agreed that in
future requests for reassignment agreements, the Regents will be provided with more
complete information on the particular intellectual property in question.
Resolution in Honor of James D. Shortt, Jr.
President Duderstadt called on Regent Smith, who read the following
resolution:
The Regents of the University of Michigan wish to extend their warmest
greetings and deep appreciation to James D. Shortt, Jr., on the occasion of his
retirement on June 30, 1989.
Dr. Short came to the University as a graduate student in 1949 and
subsequently earned his MA. degree in 1951 and his Ph.D. degree in 1955.
While still a doctoral student, he joined the University staff in 1953 as assistant


-17 -



July Meeting, 1989


to the director of university relations and has virtually devoted his entire
professional life to the University.
He was named assistant director of state services in 1962, director in
1964, and assistant to the vice president for university relations in 1968. In
1974, he added the title of assistant to the secretary and in 1981, became
assistant to the president under Harold Shapiro.
Throughout his career, Jim Shortt's forte has been managing and
directing special events at the University. Whether it was commencement, a
presidential visit, a Rose Bowl trip, his special knack for attention to the
smallest detail made each occasion proceed flawlessly. In this capacity, he
has developed a close working relationship with the current Regents and their
immediate predecessors. To each he has given devoted attention and special
care so that their participation in events was rewarding and pleasant.
Of special note was "Doc" Shortt's supportive role with University
students. In his formal capacity, he served as advisor, tour director, business
manager, and consultant to the Michigan Men's Glee Club and the Marching
Band. But he served countless others as an informal counselor and friend.
For his extraordinary service to the University, the Regents now commend
and thank James D. Shortt, Jr. and extend their best wishes to him for a
rewarding retirement.
Regent Smith presented a copy of the resolution to Dr. Shortt, who was present
at the meeting, and it was approved by acclamation.
The meeting was then recessed to allow the participants to move to the
Anderson Room of the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments by the following people on the topics indicated:
Carl Parsell, Director of the Michigan Association of Police, on the University's
security personnel; George Popp, staff member from the University's plant
department, on a personnel matter; and Dona Deman, citizen, about her medical
records.
Friday, July 21, 1989
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and
Vice Presidents Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters and Vice President Cosovich were absent.


-18 -



July Meeting, 1989


Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the fiscal year 1989-90
This item was returned to the table, having been tabled the previous day.
Regent Roach stated that, for the purpose of allowing the Law School to plan for the
coming year, he had no objection to this matter's being considered at this time. He
requested that additional information as to resources be obtained.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
unanimously to approve expenditure of the income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the
Marguerite Wolfson endowment funds for the fiscal year 1989-90, as specified in the
action request.
1989-90 General Fund Budgets, 1989/90 Revenue Budgets, and 1989/90 Student Fee
Rates for UM-Ann Arbor, UM-Dearborn, and UM-Flint
Regarding the 1989-90 General Fund Operating Budgets, President Duderstadt
commented that the two principal objectives of the University of Michigan are quality
and access. That is the reason why the University has adopted the policy that it
guarantees to meet the demonstrated financial need of all Michigan residents who
attend. Thus, a substantial portion of the funds generated by tuition increases
provides the financial aid necessary to protect that access. In the case of the proposed
9.6% tuition increases, about one-third of the amount generated will be used for
financial aid.
President Duderstadt also pointed out that the tuition levels for Michigan
residents represent only about 20-30% of the real cost of an education at the
University of Michigan. Difficult economic times in the state require that there be a
partnership between the University, the legislature, and the people of the state to
ensure that the objectives of quality and access will continue to be met.
Regent Baker stated that he would support the proposed tuition increases,
noting that this was the president's first year in office and praising the leadership that
he had shown in publicizing the needs of higher education in the state. He also said
that he was looking forward to reviewing the results of the University's Task Force on
the Costs of Higher Education to see how the University could move to further reduce
operating costs.
Regent Brown said that he was convinced that in order to maintain its
excellence, there was no alternative other than to approve the proposed tuition
increase. He pointed out that this is the only control that the Regents have on the
income side of the budget, and that even with this increase, there will be many unmet
needs.
Regent Smith also expressed her support of the tuition increase, saying that she
was convinced that the needs are critical and that there is no other solution.
Regent Power observed that he agreed with the comments of the other Regents
about the necessity of a tuition increase, but he also felt that the University and the
press should emphasize the University's clearly-stated policy that it will meet the
demonstrated financial need of all resident undergraduate students. He noted that
bar charts displayed by Provost Vest the previous day illustrated the effectiveness of


-19 -



July Meeting, 1989


this policy by indicating that there was no difference in enrollment rates across family
income leve s.
Regent Varner praised the administration for the excellent budget
presentations, and said that she supported the proposed fee increases and budget
recommendations as necessary for maintaining the quality of the institution, while at
the same time ensuring access for all who are admitted. She further stated that she
believed that "this is still a place where one can get a quality education for one of the
lowest prices in the nation."
Regent Varner moved that the Regents approve the 1989-90 revenue budgets
for all three campuses, as detailed in the action request, and that they approved the
following student fee rate increases: 9.6% for all categories of students at UM-Flint;
9.6% for resident undergraduates and 9.9% for all other students at UM-Dearborn;
and for UM-Ann Arbor, 9.6% for full-time full-term resident undergraduates, 12% for
Law School, 12.1% for Business Administration M.B.A. students, and 10.0% for all
other full-time full-term students. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was
adopted unanimously.
Audit of Student Financial Assistance
Regent Baker noted that in the report by Ernst & Whinney on internal controls
used in administering student financial assistance programs, the statement was made
that "we do not express an opinion on the system of internal control used in
administering the student financial assistance programs of The University of
Michigan."
University Auditor Carl Smith responded that that quotation represented
"boilerplate" language necessary to conform with the requirements of federal
regulations for financial aid programs. The auditors only reviewed the specific
procedures required by the federal government, which are not sufficient for
ndependent auditors to issue an unqualified opinion.
Regent Baker asked Mr. Smith whether he was satisfied with the internal
control procedures. Mr. Smith responded affirmatively.
1989-90 University Health Service Fee
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Varner seconded approval of an increase of
$3.00 per student per term (4.3%) in the University Health Service fee for fiscal year
1989-90.
Regent Baker asked Vice President Johnson for information on how the
number of employees at University Health Service has changed from several years ago
to the present time.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Controls; 1989-90 Michigan Student Assembly/
Michigan Collegiate Coalition/School-College Governments Fees
Vice President Johnson said that a review of the entire MSA budget, which


-20 -



July Meeting, 1989


includes funding for MSA, Student Legal Services (SLS), Ann Arbor Tenants Union
(AATU), and ADVICE, reveals a projected deficit as of August 31, 1989, of
approximately $50,000. He also noted that in a May 30th meeting of all of the units
that receive funding from MSA, it was agreed that MSA's budget woud reflect the
combined deficit. That means that MSA would make all required payments to these
units so that it alone could carry the deficit.
Vice President Johnson also said that the overspending of the immediate past
MSA administration (Phillips) resulted in a cash overdraft of approximately $60,000,
but that balances brought forward, cash on hand, and other allocations would leave
the actual deficit at $49,883.00. In response to the Regents' concerns, he said that
MSA's fiscal year would be changed to end December 31. That would allow 90 days
for an audit, management letter and response, to be presented to the Regents no later
than the May meeting, with the funding request to be made subsequent to that.
Regarding the concern of requiring future students to pay for the mistakes of
their predecessors, Vice President Johnson said there were no other options. He
noted that the Phillips administration had received a $50,000 balance from its
predecessor, the Weine administration. These situations had occurred because of the
historic lack of administrative oversight over MSA finances, and that the proposed
financial controls were intended to institute a system of oversight.
There followed a lengthy discussion about the financial status of Student Legal
Services and its relationship to the MSA budget deficit. Regent Nielsen questioned
Mr. Rodger Wolf, assistant to Vice President Johnson, in an effort to determine
whether or not SLS had an actual deficit. Regent Nielsen's understanding was that the
supposed $30,000 payment on MSA's liability to SLS represented an unexpected
windfall to SLS.
Mr. Wolf asserted that the statement made the previous day by John Forczak,
director of SLS, that SLS had a windfall and that it had revised its budget in
anticipation of receiving additional funding, was in error. In fact, Mr. Wolfs review of
MSA's and SLS's financial affairs revealed that at the end of the 1987-88 fiscal year,
SLS had received only $232,925 of its $285,123 budget for that year from MSA, a
difference of $52,198. Although there was $38,000 excess cash in one SLS account at
that time, there was a $33,000 cash overdraft in other SLS accounts.
The matter was further complicated by the fact that at the end of FY 1987-88,
MSA had $130,000 in cash, of which $80,000 represented liabilities and $50,000 was
surplus. In 1988-89 MSA spent the excess $50,000, plus at least $50,000 in additional
funds that it didn't have, which has led to MSA's current financial crisis.
Regent Baker noted some further differences in opinion as to the actual
situation of SLS, and also pointed out that $5,000 of the $50,000 MSA deficit is owed
to PIRGIM. He did not believe that it was necessary to pay this balance, because in
his opinion, it was an illegal obligation, having been incurred after students had voted
to terminate funding for PIRGIM.
Mr. Wolf said that the $5,000 owed to PIRGIM represented the remaining
portion of $27,000 that had been calculated on a per-student basis during the time of
student-approved PIRGIM funding. Regent Baker also observed that the Phillips
administration had spent not only the extra $50,000 it had inherited from the Weine


-21 -



July Meeting, 1989


administration, but an additional $50,000 it did not have, saying that was
"unconscionable".
Regent Nielsen repeated that MSA should not have to borrow money to provide
SLS with funds that "they didn't know they were going to get and didn't need." Regent
Baker agreed. Vice President Johnson responded that Mr. Forczyak (of SLS) "did not
understand his own budget." Regent Brown expressed his agreement with Vice
President Johnson's conclusion.
Regent Power said that he was going to insist that all of the financial controls
instituted for MSA also be applied to the other units associated with it, which would
eliminate the present confusion. He then asked whether or not there was a $50,000
shortfall. Vice President Johnson and Mr. Wolf responded that there would be a
$50,000 shortfall as of August 31, 1989.
Regent Power moved approval of the MSA budget proposal outlined in the
action request ($6.77 per student per term for MSA and $0.35 per student per term for
MCC, both for one year only, and $1.00 per student per term for School/College
governments). The MSA fee contains an increase of $0.49 over the previous year's
fee, a portion of which will be used to service the $50,000 loan (which has a three-year
pay-off of the principal at 9% interest). Regent Varner seconded the motion.
The discussion then turned to consideration of what would happen if MSA did
not receive the $50,000 loan and instead had to reduce its budget by $50,000. MSA
president Aaron Williams said that MSA had decided that it alone would assume the
debt burden, and would not pass it through to the organizations it funds. He further
asserted that MSA's financial straights had forced it to cut its own 1989-90 budget
dramatically.
Discussion then turned to the appropriateness of using student fees for
organizations such as the Ann Arbor Tenants Union, PIRGIM, and Michigan
Collegiate Coalition. Regent Baker made a substitute motion to continue support for
MSA at its current level, but to eliminate funding for Michigan Collegiate Coalition.
Regent Nielsen seconded that motion.
MSA representative John Coleman said that if the Regents did not approve the
$50,000 loan for MSA, the debt would still exist, and student government would, in
effect, be forced to shut down. Regent Nielsen suggested that MSA transfer the debt
to the organizations it funds. Mr. Williams and Mr. Coleman responded that this
would not be possible, and that students had carefully considered the funding request
and believe every MSA-funded organization to be relevant and necessary.
Regent Nielsen suggested that MSA reduce its budget to accommodate the
deficit. Regent Roach noted that MSA had already significantly reduced its own
budget for 1989-90. Regent Brown moved to substitute for Regent Baker's motion the
original request to approve the proposed MSA/MCC/School/College funding for one
year only. Regent Power supported that motion.
Regent Varner agreed that MSA had made substantial cuts in its proposed
budget, noting that the students were attempting to deal responsibly with their fiscal
situation and that the Regents should support these efforts. She emphasized that it
should be up to the students to decide how to allocate their funds.


-22 -



July Meeting, 1989


Regent Roach agreed that MSA itself should determine how to allocate its
funds. However, he said he was concerned about the University's funding of MCC,
which he feared had lobbied against the University's interests. This led to a discussion
about the positions advocated by MCC. Regent Baker said that MCC had been
instructed never to oppose the position of the University administration on any issue.
The Regents also pointed out that the University of Michigan was providing a
disproportionate share of MCC's total funding.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken on Regent Baker's motion to
leave funding for MSA and school/college governments at their current levels of $6.28
and $1.00 per student per term, respectively, and to eliminate funding for MCC. The
motion failed, with Regents Brown, Power, Roach, and Varner opposed and Regents
Baker, Nielsen, and Smith in favor.
The president then called for a vote on Regent Brown's motion, to approve a
fee per student per term of $6.77 for MSA and $0.35 for MCC, both for one year only,
and $1.00 per student per term for school and college governments. Regent Brown
emphasized that the intent of his motion was to make it clear that funding for both
MCC and MSA would be for only one year. Regent Power added that with this
motion, the Regents were also requesting that not only MSA, but all of its affiliated
units, including SLS, AATU, ADVICE, etc., revise their financial controls according to
the plan proposed by Vice President Johnson's office.
Regent Baker moved to amend this motion to eliminate funding for MCC
because of his understanding that they had lobbied against the University's interests.
Regent Smith seconded that motion. President Duderstadt emphasized that approval
of Regent Brown's motion includes the understanding that if the other state
institutions do not meet their fair share of funding for MCC, funding will not be
renewed next year. Regent Brown pointed out that his motion makes it clear to MCC
that the Regents are concerned also about the positions MCC advocates in Lansing.
The vote was taken on Regent Baker's amendment, and it failed, with Regents
Brown, Power, Roach, and Varner opposed and Regents Baker, Nielsen, and Smith in
favor.
The Regents then voted on Regent Brown's motion; it was approved, with
Regents Brown, Power, Roach and Varner in favor and Regents Baker, Nielsen, and
Smith opposed.
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Controls
President Duderstadt pointed out that included with the financial controls
outlined by Vice President Johnson is the provision that MSA will change its fiscal
year to end on December 31, so that the Regents will be able to review the audit,
management letter, and responses prior to deciding on MSA funding for the coming
year.
Regent Roach emphasized that although this is an information item, institution
of the financial controls is a condition of MSA's receiving its funding for the 1989-90
year.


-23 -



July Meeting, 1989


Membership in the National Association of Epilepsy Centers
The Regents unanimously approved an annual institutional membership for the
Department of Neurology in the National Association of Epilepsy Centers.
Proposed Dental Service Plan for the School of Dentistry
Provost Vest said that institution of the proposed Dental Service Plan is crucial
in addressing the needs of the Dental School, because it would enhance academic
programs and generate revenue that would reduce the School's dependence on the
General Fund.
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Smith seconded, approval of the Dental
Service Plan. Regent Power observed that the Dental Service Plan would affect the
competitiveness that exists between the Dental School and local practitioners. Dean
Kotowicz responded that discussions had been held with the local dental society, and
that although there would be some opposition, the proposed arrangement is not an
unusual one. He noted that the Dental Service Plan would enable the School to
function as both a local and a regional referral center.
Further discussion indicated that liability issues had been adequately addressed,
and that the fees charged will be comparable to those charged by private practitioners.
The vote was then taken, and the motion carried unanimously.
Membership in the American Association of Hospital Dentists
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved institutional membership in the American Association of
Hospital Dentists.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Transportation,
accommodation, telephone, and other expenses for the month of June, 1989 totalled
$2,021.36. The next meeting will take place on September 14 and 15, 1989.
hard L. enne y, Secrdjy


-24 -



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 14, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also
present, as was Chancellor Jones. Vice Chancellor Robert Behrens attended the
meeting for Chancellor Wilson, who was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order. Regent Roach made the
following motion:
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on September
14, 1989, at 3:00 P.M., for the purpose of considering material exempt from discussion
or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material
consists of consultation with the Board's attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy
in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted unanimously.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1988-89; Year End Financial Information
for 1988-89
Vice President Womack pointed out the separately bound volumes containing
the University of Michigan Financial Statements for the years ended June 30, 1989
and 1988 with the Report of Independent Auditors, the Alumni Association Financial
Statements and Auditors' Report for the same years, and the Board for Student
Publications Financial Statements and Internal Audit Report. He called on Mr.
Chandler Matthews, Controller of the University, to present the information contained
in these reports and in the volume entitled "Year-End Financial Information for
1988-89."
Mr. Matthews began his presentation by noting that the University's "Current"
(operating) funds are made up of the General Fund, the Designated Fund, the
Expendable Restricted Fund, and the Auxiliary Activities Fund. The General Fund is
the primary source of funds for instruction, research, and public service, and is derived
primarily from student tuition and state appropriations. The Designated Fund is used
for continuing education activities; it is derived from conference fees, investment
income, and unrestricted gifts.
The Expendable Restricted Fund, expended primarily on Research, is financed
and restricted by outside donors and founders. The Auxiliary Activities Fund accounts


-25 -



September Meeting, 1989


for activities that are maintained by revenue generated by their own operations; its
major activity is University Hospitals and other medical operations.
Mr. Matthews displayed charts and graphs that compared the various categories
of revenue according to source (student fees, state appropriations, government
programs, gifts and sponsored programs, other, and auxiliary activities) for the years
1980 through 1989, adjusted to account for the effects of inflation. Regent Baker
noted that the increase in the percentage of the General Fund provided by tuition and
fees has corresponded to the decrease in the percentage of this fund provided by state
appropriation.
The next set of slides illustrated the various categories of expenditure by object.
for the same period of time. He noted that total compensation, which consists of
salaries and wages and staff benefits, comprised 66% of expenditures in 1980 and just
over 59% in 1988-89. This is due to increased expenditures in the supplies category
(from about 21% to 27.6% of total expenditures) during the same period. Other
object of expenditures categories are scholarships and fellowships, and equipment and
plant extension.
Mr. Matthews explained that much of the inflation-adjusted increase in total
compensation is attributable to the increase in staff benefits costs over the past ten
years. Regent Power suggested that it would be interesting to compare the growth in
the number of full-time equivalent salaried positions [FTE's] against the source of
funds to see the variance in the number of FTE's over time.
Mr. Matthews concluded his presentation by reporting that the University is
solvent and that it has accounted for its resources properly.
Vice President Womack responded to several specific questions from the
Regents about accounting practices used in presenting the data for certain funds.
Then, on a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the 1988-89 Annual Financial Statements.
1989-90 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
President Duderstadt announced that Vice President Womack and Provost Vest
would share the presentation of the 1989-90 Revenue Expenditure Operating Budgets.
Vice President Womack displayed a graph illustrating that the University's
1989-90 state appropriation of $285.1 million represents 24% of the total higher
education appropriation. The University's 1989-90 total revenue budget is
$1,627,419,068; the total expenditures budget is $1,612,482,638. The revenues budget
is divided as follows: 41% to the Auxiliary Activities Fund, 36% to the General Fund,
19% to the Expendable Restricted Fund, and 3% to the Designated Fund.
Provost Vest described the General Fund budgeted revenues for all campuses
($592,816,068) by source: $269.4 million comes from tuition and fees, $267.0 million
from state appropriations, $44.1 million from indirect cost recovery, and $12.2 million
from other sources. He again pointed out the gradual decline in the proportion of
General Fund revenue derived from state appropriation that has necessitated a steady
increase in the proportion that must be derived from tuition and fees. He continued
with an explanation of the budgeted expenditures for the vice presidential areas, and


-26 -



September Meeting, 1989


pointed to a handout that showed the growth in General Fund expenditures that
would have occurred in these areas had not staff benefits expenses been transferred to
schools, colleges, and units budgets in 1989-90.
Vice President Womack completed the budget presentation by describing the
budgeted revenues over time and for fiscal year 1989-90 for the Designated Fund, the
Auxiliary Activities Fund, and the Expendable Restricted Fund. Regent Baker
pointed out the importance of development efforts in helping to bridge the gap
created by the decrease in the proportion of the budget provided by state
appropriations.
The Regents praised Vice President Womack and Provost Vest and their staffs
for the amount of effort that had been expended on the revamped budget documents.
Regent Roach commented that this had been the clearest budget presentation ever
given in his years on the Board. Following further comments, Regent Smith moved
adoption of the 1989-90 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets. Regent
Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Semi-Annual Accounts Receivable Report
Vice President Womack noted that the titles of the categories of receivables
listed in this report give an inaccurate representation of the measures of receivables
they denote. The category "Number of Unbilled Inpatient Accounts," he explained,
consists of a) patients not yet discharged from the hospital (which would be 886 in the
case of 100% occupancy); b) accounts that are less than seven days old (for which
information is still being gathered in order that they can be properly billed); c)
accounts that are in the billing process (should be fully billed within three days); d)
in-house followup (accounts awaiting information that is internally available); and e)
external followup (accounts awaiting third-party approval before the billing process
can commence).
Vice President Womack said that staff is attempting to devise a disclosure
mechanism that will provide the receivables information in a format that will be more
useful for the Board. In response to comments from the Regents, Mr. Forsyth,
Hospitals Executive Director, said that the most important categories for the Board's
oversight are the days of revenue in net receivables and the number of accounts
awaiting in-house followup. Regent Power suggested that the Hospitals set
prospective goals for those categories. Regent Roach suggested that the receivables
also be tracked by age.
Following further comments, the meeting recessed to meet in closed session.
Public Comments
The meeting reconvened at 4:10 P.M. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union for the public comments session.
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: David Maurrasse and Rajal Patel, students and members of the United
Coalition Against Racism steering committee, about issues related to people of color
at the University; Elmer LeBlanc, former student, about due process rights; and Dona
Deman, citizen, about her medical records.


-27 -



September Meeting, 1989


Following Public Comments, the Board returned to the Regents' Room to
continue its closed session meeting.
Friday, September 15, 1989
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also
present, as was Chancellor Jones. Vice Chancellor Robert Behrens attended the
meeting for Chancellor Wilson, who was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order.
Minutes
Regent Baker moved approval of the minutes of the July, 1989 meeting. Regent
Smith seconded the motion, and the minutes were approved unanimously.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted regular monthly reports of Investment
Transactions, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, and the
Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory. He responded to several questions about the
Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory.
Vice President Kelly submitted a Report of Projects Established, July 1 through
August 31, 1989 and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted Reports of Gifts Received for the months of
June, July, and August, 1989, as well as a Summary Report of Gifts Received for Fiscal
Year 1988-89. He noted that gifts for the past fiscal year were up about 4% in terms
of dollar value and 20% in terms of number of donors. Regent Baker commended
Vice President Cosovich's efforts in overseeing the steady increase in gift receipts over
the past several years. Following further discussion, the Regents voted to receive the
Report of Gifts and Grants.


-28 -



September Meeting, 1989


Acuson Corporation, Mountain View, California
for pediatric cardiology research and training in the Medical School        50,000
American Academy of Otorlaryngology Head and Neck Surgery Foundation, Inc.,
Washington, D.C.; for research in the Medical School                         9,978
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                163,804
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          25,750
American Electric Power Service Corporation, Columbus, Ohio
for the Donald C. Cook Chair in the School of Business Administration        5,000
American Heart Association Inc,. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                          24,000
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      6,000
Natalie J. Andrews, Northville
for the Ross Andrews Endowed Memorial Scholarship                            5,000
Anonymous Donor
for Chinese Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,000
Anonymous Donor
357 Shares of Coca-Cola Corporation common stock; for the Rackham Renaissance
Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies                    20,684
Anonymous Donor
for the Hazen A. and Rowena P. Hafer Scholarship                            30,950
Alfred C. Arbogast and Ersa S. Arbogast Foundation, Elkhart, Indiana
for alzheimer's disease research in the Medical School                       5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in the Institute of Gerontology      14,832
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          20,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  7,599
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship                         24,940
Bonnie J. Boehnke, Ann Arbor
for support of the Michigan League, in memory of Marguerite L. Boehnke       7,500
David A. Brandon Foundation, NorthvilTe
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              20,000
Brencanda Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            8,850
Bristol-Myers/Zimmer Orthopaedic Grant Program, Warsaw, Indiana
for research in the Medical School                                          50,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                  453,000
George F. Ceithaml, Laguna Beach, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Chamberlain Foundation, Birmingham
pledge payment for the Chamberlain Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                12,000
Charfoos and Christensen, P.C., Detroit
for the Human Values in Medicine Program in the Medical School               5,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  20,000
Chevrolet Motor Division, General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                              5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          10,875
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
pledge payment for the instructional complex in the College of Engineering  250,000
Coin-op Specialists, Inc., Adrian
for support of the College of Engineering                                    5,000
Ethel C. Coller Estate
for support of the University of Michigan                                    7,275
Timothy W. Collins, Birmingham
for the India Site Seminar in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                           30,000


-29 -



September Meeting, 1989


Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health                                 35,000
Gerhard A. Cook, Clarence, New York
for the Gerhard A. and Lura L. Cook Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Contribution
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  25,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                         146,161
Mary Mallery Davis, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint, WFUM-TV                     5,000
Ross F. Di Marco, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in
the Medical School                                                           5,000
Domino's Farms Development Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Architecture and Urban planning                7,020
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
pledge payment for the chemical sciences facilities in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                      250,000
Dykema, Gossett, Detroit
pledge payment for the Institute for Continuing Legal Education in the Law School,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                              8,140
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            7,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for research infi the College of Engineering                                20,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering                                  31,250
Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Ernst & Whinney Scholarship in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 21,635
Scott J. Farrell, Fremont, Ohio
for the J. Robert Willson Professorship in the Medical School                5,000
Fiat S.PA., Torino Italy
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  19,990
FMC Corporation, Princeton New Jersey
for support of the College of Engineering                                    7,300
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social
Research                                                                    51,542
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering                                  90,000
Glen C. Forrester Estate
for the Moses and Sophia Gomberg Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                88,000
Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering                                   6,833
Fund for Research on Dispute Resolution, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             7,500
Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Garrett Bay Village, Ohio
1,000 shares of Kellogg Company common stock; pledge payment for the Richard T.
and Marilyn HoltomGarrett Fund in Neurology, in the Medical School          73,625
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco California
for support of the Medical School                                           22,500
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Charles H. Gershenson Piano Fund in the School of Music             97,267
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            60,000
J. Paul Getty Trust Los Angeles, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            64,034
Genevieve Gillette Estate
for support of the University Herbarium in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                     7,500
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering, and in the Institute of Science and
Technology                                                                  20,000
William T. GrantFoundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the School of Social
Work, and the Center for Human Growth and Development                       91,655


-30 -



September Meeting, 1989


Leon Greenspan, Burlingame, California
Pledge payment or pediatric research and training in the Medical School      25,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
65,000 shares of Riviera Beach Housing Corporation sub-lien bonds; pledge payment
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               60,612
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet Illinois
pledge payment on behalf of James S. Van Pelt, Jr., for the Sports Service Building
m the Department of Athletics                                                 5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,473
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             23,839
William Haber Trust
for the William Haber Fund                                                    5,000
Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
pledge payment for the Helzberg Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
For research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                    14,975
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for research and other support in the Medical School                         75,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the School
of Public Health, and for Employee Matching Gifts                           180,500
Hitachi, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   20,000
Honda Motor Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   20,000
Mr. and Mrs. Clark Hubbs, Austin, Texas
1,740 shares of various corporate common stocks; for support of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            80,124
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  75,132
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for support of the Institute of Science and Technology                        7,500
Infusaid Corporation, Norwood, Massachusetts
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Alfred Jurzykowski Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              6,300
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           23,899
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Public Health                                  58,769
John Harvey Kellogg Estate
for the John Harvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School              15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research on the Middle English Dictionary, and in the Institute for Social
Research, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                   184,370
Robert I. Kleinberg, New York, New York
first payment on a pledge of $50,000 for the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,000
Carl A. Kreager, Sanibel, Florida
400 Shares of American Telephone and Telegraph common stock; pledge payment
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               14,400
Brian C. Kuttner, Saline
for support of the College of Engineering                                     9,500
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Ilminois
for research in the Medical School                                           16,510
Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Edwin H. Lyon Estate
for the Edward H. Lyon Scholarship                                          135,699
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           32,000
Marko Materials, Inc., North Billerica, Massachusetts
for support of the Medical School                                             5,000
Charles A. McCloskey Estate
for undergraduate student financial aid                                      25,000


-31 -



September Meeting, 1989


McGregor Fund, Detroit
pledge payment for the University of Michigan Library                       62,500
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                   21,606
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for support of the School of Business Administration                         5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for macromolecular research m the Institute of Science and Technology       10,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                25,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           8,250
National Neurofibromatosis Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          34,000
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology       5,000
NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
Nelson Research & Development, Irvie, California
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School                       30,000
NeoRx Corporation, Seattle, Washington
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                         12,460
Nippon Life Insurance Company, Osaka, Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Parke-Davis, Division of Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for psychopharmacology research in the-Medical School                       10,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Program for Inter-Institutional Collaboration in Area Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           60,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for capital gifts pending designation                         10,000
Leona G. Probst Estate
for the Jesse W. & Leona G. Probst Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                20,000
Ward L. Quaal, Winnetka, Illinois
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     20,000
Ramapo Trust, New York, New York
for geriatric medicine research in the Medical School                       37,500
Reliance Electric Company Charitable, Scientific and Educational Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering                                  15,000
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Institute
for Social Research                                                         46,565
Richard D. Rohr, Grosse Pointe
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
Rose Fund, Inc., New York, New York
pledge payment for capital gifts pending designation                        10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work                                   23,844
Nina V. Sanchez Estate
for support of the School of Education                                      10,000
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
Tor fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                                   8,000
S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer Family Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payment for the Scheuer Library Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                15,000
Seiko Instrument Tokyo, Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  19,985
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              11,000
Donald R. Shepfierd Pasadena, California
for theRevefli Band Rehearsal Hall Addition in the School of Music          29,588
Lois E. Sinke Estate
for support of the Medical School                                           89,217
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            25,000


-32 -



September Meeting, 1989


Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          24,001
Society of Computed Body Tomography, Rochester
for the Mallinckrodt Award in the Medical School                            10,000
Sony Corporation, Toyko, Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education                                     58,040
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School                                          32,191
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for support of the Institute of Science and Technology                      15,000
Mrs. Edward B. Thompson, Birmingham
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                         5,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Thompson Archive Trust Fund           55,000
Touche, Ross & Company, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management, and pledge payment
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  6,500
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for the Toyota Visiting Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                       250,000
Stefan Tucker, Washington, D.C.
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt
Research Professorship in the Law School                                    12,500
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship                 9,892
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
first payment on a pledge of $10,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     20,000
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for support of the Institute of Science and Technology                       7,500
Whiting Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for the Fleming A. Barbour Glaucoma Research and Evaluation Unit in the Medical
School                                                                      50,000
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for research in the University of Michigan Library                          10,000
Xyrofin, Ltd., Zug, Switzerland
for biochemical research in the School of Dentistry                         39,452
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School                             50,000
Jack Zachary, Frankfort, Indiana
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Engineering                                                      32,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                 78,046
American Federation for Aging Research Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and in the Institute of Gerontology      24,500
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                          24,723
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                  102,836
American Legion Auxiliary, Lansing
for burn prevention and awareness research in the Medical School             5,298
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School                                        1,860,288
Asian Cultural Council, New York New York
for the India Site Seminar in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust, Fenton
first payment on a pledge of $50,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of At etics                                                      10,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
pledge payment for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Student Aid Fund in the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning                                           5,000


-33 -



September Meeting, 1989


Nicholas C. Bosch, Wausau, Wisconsin
for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in the Medical School               5,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Bristol-Myers Company, New York, New York
for pain research in the Medical School                                      50,000
Lawrence Butler Estate
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,891
Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation Grand Rapids
for the Campbell Foundation Neurology Research Fund in the Medical School    10,000
Erin E. Cannon, Silver Spring a Maryland
for the Jo-Eleanor Elliott Scholarship in the School of Nursing              10,000
Central Data Systems, Inc., Farmington Hills
pledge Payment on behalf oT Jack R. Engebretson, for the Sports Service Building
m the Department of Athletics                                                15,000
David L. Chambers, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Chie Yuan Chen, Far Hills, New Jersey
for Transplant Fellowships in the Medical School                             17,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            7,511
Chrysler Corporation Fund Highland Park
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  41,095
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
150 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock; for the Ralph Waldo
Gerard Memorial Fund in the Medical School                                 1,033,125
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            35,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics, College of Engineering  15,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Fund in the Undergraduate Admissions Office              36,300
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           41,271
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship                                  5,000
Louis F. Davis, Jr., Omaha, Nebraska
for the Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall Addition in the School of Music           5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           69,706
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Dow Chemical, U.SA., Midland
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           7,500
Catherine W. Duffy, Port Huron
900 shares of IBM Corporation common stock; first payment on a pledge of
$200 000 for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics     104,250
Thomas C. Evans, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Paramount Communications, Inc. common stock; for support of the
Museum of Art, School of Music University of Michigan Hospitals, University
Musical Society, and WUOM/WVGR                                                5,931
Fife Electric Supply Company, Novi
on behalf of Ben S. Smith, for the Sports Service Building in the Department of
Athletics                                                                    10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 149,477
Fraternal Order of Eagles Memorial Foundation Fund, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Louise Madsen Memorial Fund in the Medical School                     5,000
Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Foundation, Southfield
for the Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Fund in the Medical School                  7,500
Blanche M. Goodrich Estate
for the University of Michigan-Flint, WFUM-TV                                20,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           59,567
Robert J. Hiller Trust
for the Robert J. Hiller Professorship in the College of Engineering         12,350
H N U Systems, Inc., Newton Highlands, Massachusetts
for research in the School of Public Health                                  10,000
-34 -



September Meeting, 1989


Mr. and Mrs. Clark Hubbs, Austin, Texas
for the Carl L. and Laura C. Hubbs Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                99,565
Alan F. Hunter, Marquette
for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in the Medical School             10,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 13,112
E. John Justema, Jr., Hinsdale Illinois
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          32,250
Lilly Endowment Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for the Lilly Endowment Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy               35,000
Warren and Catherine Lindeman, Coldwater
first payment on a pledge of $105,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     21,000
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering             16,000
Lyons Equipment Company, Ypsilanti
tirst payment on a pledge of $15,000 on behalf of Bob Lyons, for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics                                      5,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics  5,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  10,000
Mclnerney Leasing, Southleld
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 on behalf of Martin McInerney, for the Sports
Services Building in the Department of Athletics                            20,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
200 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock; for the Center for Research
on Learning and Teaching, and the Faculty Fund, in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        5,613
G. Edgar Meads, London, Ontario, Canada
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts           117,135
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     25,000
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 12,614
Michigan Farm & Garden Foundation Inc., Trenton
for garden programs in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
School of Natural Resources                                                  5,100
Mobil Research and Development Corporation Dallas, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics, in the College of Engineering  10,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for research in the Transportation Research Institute                      214,500
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           9,000
National Alliance For Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical Schoof                                          25,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                          24,856
Nippon Life Insurance Company, New York New York
first payment on a pledge of $1.2 million for the Nippon Life Professorship in the
Law School                                                                 200,000
Barbara Standish Patten Estate
for the Bradley M. Patten Memorial Fund in the Medical School, and for the C. S.
Mott Hospital                                                               52,002
Felix H. Pauszek Estate
for the Margaret C. and Felix H. Pauszek Scholarship                        10,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                                   9,167
Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur K. Pierpont, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000


-35 -



September Meeting, 1989


Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy Studies  5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  19,428
Florence M. Renme Scholarship Trust, Grand Rapids
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      6,560
Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr. Chicago, Illinois
for the Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School  100,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Funds in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing,
and in the College of Pharmacy                                               15,409
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work                                    58,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            10,000
Charles L. and Nancy L. Sargent, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $15,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Scott Paper Company Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,135
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       11,448
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work                                   258,000
SNR Alumni Society, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Natural Resources                                7,433
Sonoco Products Company, Hartsville, South Carolina
for cumulative trauma disorders research in the College of Engineering       15,000
Sydney A. Spink, St. Augustine, Florida
for the India Site Seminar, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      5,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Esther C. Stone Fund                   10,941
Flora Hodgman Temple Trust, Detroit
for discretionary support of the Martha Cook Building                         5,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Union Carbide Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut
for the Union Carbide Funds m the College of Engineering                     10,000
Merle R. Voss Trust
for the Virginia L. Voss Memorial Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 12,500
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for scholarships in the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts  6,616
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                           81,025
Roger Zatkoff Company, Farmington Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               15,000
AARP Andrus Foundation Lakewood, California
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                 50,000
Allied Signal Corporation, Morristown New Jersey
for research in the Institute of Science and Technology                       5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York New York
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and in the Institute
of Gerontology                                                               57,829
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc., Southfield
for research in the School of Public Health                                   6,750
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                           34,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts    9,050
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology      30,667
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       30,247
Willard J. Banyon Estate
for the College of Engineering                                              250,000


-36 -



September Meeting, 1989


Everett E. Berg, Emeryville, California
pledge payment for the Everett E. Berg Professorship in the School of Business
Admnilstration                                                             200,000
Beztak Group Financial Services Corporation
for graduate orthodontic fellowships in the School of Dentistry             10,000
Frank S. Bissell, Easton, Maryland
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics         10,000
Jane Bryant Estate
for the Jane Bryant Scholarship in the School of Music                      99,437
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in the Medical School              5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           7,499
CitiBank, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Professorship and the Associates Program in the School of
Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                    15,700
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Colombo Manalapan Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               7,500
Creative Industries of Detroit, Inc., Detroit
pledge payment on behalf of R. Leasia, for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     10,000
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building, and other support in the
Department of Athletics                                                     52,000
D'Arcy, Masius, Benton and Bowles, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for unrestricted capital support in the School of Business
Administration                                                              14,286
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., Rye, New York
pledge payment for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       10,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Marlborough, Massachusetts
for software development in the College of Engineering                      50,000
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
five shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. common stock; pledge payments for the Risk
Management Professorship in the School of Business A ministration, and the Sports
Services Building in the Department of Athletics                            37,313
Harold T. Donahue, Cass City
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics         15,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
pledge payment for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              20,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for research in the School of Public Health, and for Employee Matching Gifts  38,906
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Engineering                                  25,000
Fairfield Construction, Battle Creek
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Roderick J. Finlayson, New York, New York
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  5,000
First of America Bank - Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
CarltonR. Fisc er, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for fellowships and scholarships in the School of Business Administration and pledge
payments for the College of Engineering and the University of Michigan-earborn  255,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                               22,500
Loraine S. Goldsmith Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      15,000
Grand Aerie Fraternal Order of Eagles, Ypsilanti
for kidney research in the Medical School                                   15,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                             20,000
George Hammond, Centerville, Massachusetts
for the George Hammond, M. D., Endowed Medical Scholarship in the Medical
School                                                                      20,000
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering and the Law School    6,000
-37 -



September Meeting, 1989


Hazel Lee Hughes Estate
for the James A. and Hazel L. Hughes Scholarship in the College of Engineering  100,000
David Dyer Hunting, Sr., Grand Rapids
2,775 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock; for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics                                      74,405
David Dyer Hunting, Jr., Grand Rapids
335 shares of Merck & Company, Inc. common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                               24,999
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              6,300
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health                                  24,135
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             72,396
R. Leasia, Bloomfield Hills
first payment on a pledge of $30,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
For research in the Medical School                                           14,715
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Dr. and Mrs. Jess U. Lim, West Bloomfield
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Medical School                 5,000
Jacques M. Lipson, Rochester New York
610 shares of Illinois Central Transportation and 65 shares of International Minerals
and Chemicals common stocks; pledge payment for gifts pending designation    15,093
Maccabees Mutual Life Insurance Company, Southfield
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Maccabees Mutual Scholarship        10,000
Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc., Findlay, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,900
Mardigian Foundation, Southfield
pledge payment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Library              100,000
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,540
Frederick C. Matthaei, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Thomas B. McDonald, Skaneateles, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            60,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    19,473
Frederick H. and Hester M. Meeder, Wilmette, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  15,093
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           13,500
NeoRx Corporation, Seattle, Washington
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                          15,575
Paley-CBS Foundation, New York New York
for the Journalists in Residence Program, in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                              5,000
Marlin H. Pemberton, Bloomfield Hills
first payment on a pledge of $50,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      10,000
Pew Charitable Trusts Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Biomedical Sciences Program in the Medical School, and for the Pew
Scholars Program in the School of Natural Resources                         187,605
Pittsfield Products, Inc., Ann Arbor
pledge payment on behalf of Mr. and Mrs. Dale Fosdick, for capital projects in the
School of Music                                                              10,000
Reader's Digest Foundation, Inc., Pleasantville, New York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            12,500
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for the design of a Program in Legal Advocacy in the Law School              11,960
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona
900 shares of Emerson Electric common stock; for education and research in the
Medical School                                                               33,131
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           27,000


-38 -



September Meeting, 1989


Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston Texas
for fellowships in the College of Engineering, and for faculty support in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                        31,250
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
pledge payments for the Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall Addition in the School of
Music, and for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  200,000
Jack H. Shuler, Orchard Lake
144 shares of H&R Block and 164 shares of Ameritech common stocks; for the
Alumni Associations's CA.M.P. Building                                      14,718
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  7,181
Audra Cook Smith, Lorain Ohio
for the President's Fund                                                    10,000
Goff Smith, Winnetka Illinois
760 shares of Baker Hughes, Inc. common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                              14,915
Spring into Summer, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital                                      11,028
SPX Foundation, Muskegon
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching
Gifts                                                                       20,304
Sterling Drug, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania
for biotechnology research in the College of Engineering                     5,000
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School                 10,018
Stone Charitable Foundation, Inc., Wareham, Massachusetts
for support of the Humamties Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    10,000
Telectronics Pacing Systems, Englewood, Colorado
for pacemaker research in the College of Engineering                         6,250
Texaco Services, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics, College of Engineering  15,000
Therex Corporation Walpole, Massachusetts
for Regional Chemotherapy Research in the Medical School                     5,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for Unisys Curriculum Projects in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     25,710
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Jackson
for Alumnae Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association                   5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
ledge payments for the Upjohn Center and Upjohn Fellowships in the Medical
chool, and for the chemical sciences facilities in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for other support of the Medical School, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                    439,015
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
first payment on a pledge of $500,000 for the Building Fund in the College of
Pharmacy                                                                    62,500
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,388
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
20 Macintosh SE/30 micro-computers, and a laserwriter printer; for the School of Business
Administration
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
computer hardware and software; for the School of Education
Keyes-Davis Company, Battle Creek
four boxes of commercial laundry pins; for the University Hospitals Laundry Service
Northern Telecom, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
fiber optic cable, installation products and splicing hardware for telecommunications and
computer networking; for the University Telecommunications Systems
Heiju Oak Packard, Ann Arbor
a gas kiln; for the School of Art, Department of Ceramics
Prime Computer Inc Southfield
eight copies of Personal Designer (CAD/CAM) software; for the University of MichiganDearborn, Department of Mechanical Engineering


-39 -



September Meeting, 1989


Janet H. Rowan, Roseville
two Invacare wheelchairs with accessories; for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Eric P. Staller, New York, New York
a framed cibachrome print, "Hydrascope" (1979); for the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning
Textron Specialfy Materials, Lowell, Massachusetts
approximately 270 machined ceramic composite specimens; for the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Deborah J. Wolf, Woodbridge, Virginia
the Vicksburg Daily ltizen newspaper for July 2 (i.e., July 4), 1863; for the Clements Library
Richard P. and Susan I. Watson, Lummi Island, Washington
319 tapes of recorded music, and 43 books; for WUOM/WVGR
Amoco, Amoco Research Center, Naperville Illinois
an Isco controller and pump; for the Department of Chemical Engineering
James C. Andereg, Detroit
an antique 'Acorn" press, circa 1820; for the Printmaking Studio in the School of Art
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
a television, stereo and related equipment, and Limoges and Regal China decanters; for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
letters of Dwight D. Eisenhower (1966) and Benjamin Roper Nichols (1800-1831), and a cabinet
photograph of Thomas Nast; for the Clements Library
Dow Chemical t.SA., Midland
equipment (pumps, calibrators, tubes, etc.); for the Industrial Hygiene Program in the School of
Pubfic Health
EDI Engineering and Science, Grand Rapids
a Hewlett-Packard gas chromatograph; for the Department of Environmental and Industrial
Health
Carol Fuller, Ann Arbor
a variety of psychology journals, covering the period of 1966-1988; for the Department of
Psychology
Hewlett-PackardCompany, Palo Alto, California
equipment (oscilloscopes, printers, cables, probes and adaptors); for the Department of Electrical
En    neering and Computer Science
Stella Kaufman Ann Arbor
a glass dining room table and 6 matching chairs; for the Department of Surgery
Laura Kett Ann Arbor
an E & J wheelchair and related equipment; for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Physical Therapy Clinic, Mount Clemens
a Burdick diathermy; for the University of Michigan-Flint, Department of Physical Therapy
Edwin C. Sage Ann Arbor
five sails, for an Interlake sailboat; for Camp Michigania
Jerry D. Wright, Fenton
a six harness textile loom (1940's); for the School of Art
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents approved the
following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Linas A. Bieliauskas, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology, August 1, 1989
Mark A. Mintun, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medcine
Theodore C. Moore, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Geological Sciences
Rebecca W. Van Dyke, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, August 1, 1989


-40 -



September Meeting, 1989


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective August 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
James R. Baker, Jr., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Melba J. Boyd, A.D., Associate Professor of African-American Studies and Director of the AfricanAmerican Studies Program, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, September 1, 1989
Frederick B. Glaser, M.D., Professor of Psychiatry
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Julia W. Andrews, Professor Emeritus of Art, reappointed to active status, University year, 1989-90
Frederick L. W. Bartman, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering and Professor Emeritus of
Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, reappointed to active status, Fall term, 1989
Gunnar G. Birkerts, Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professor and Professor of
Architecture, reappointed Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professor, for a one-year
period
Frank W. Comstock, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to active status, for a nine-month
period
Harold W. Cruse, Professor Emeritus of History and Afro-American and African Studies, reappointed to
active status, Fall term, 1989
Richard Edwards, Professor Emeritus of History of Art reappointed to active status, Winter term, 1990
John R. G. Gosling, Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period
Rodney J. Grambeau, Professor Emeritus of Sports Management and Communication, reappointed to
active status, Fall term, 1989
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status, for a oneyear period July 1, 1989
Walton M. Hancock, Associate Dean of the College of Engineering, Professor of Industrial Engineering,
with tenure, Director of the Center for Research on Integrated Manufacturing, and Professor of
Health Services Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health, reappointed
Associate Dean of the College of Engineering, for a one-year term
Herbert W. Johe, Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed to active
status, Fall term, 1989
Dale L. Oxender, Director of the Center for Molecular Genetics and Professor of Biological Chemistry,
reappointed Director of the Center for Molecular Genetics, for a one-year term, October 1, 1989
BeverleyJ. Tooley Associate Dean for the Law Library and Professor of Law, reappointed Associate
Dean for the Law Library, for a five-year term
James H. Robertson, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to active status, Fall term, 1989
Thomas D. Rowe, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacy, reappointed to active status
Gene E. Smiths Assistant Dean of the College of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
reappointed Assistant Dean of the College of Engineering, for a one-year term
J. Graham Smith, Interim Director of the Museum of Art and Professor of History of Art, reappointed
Interim Director of the Museum of Art, for a five-month term August 1, 1989
Eric Stein, Hessel E. Yntema Professor Emeritus of Law, reappointed to active status, Fall term, 1989
Erich E. Steiner, Professor Emeritus of Botany, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Alfred W. Storey, Director Emeritus of the University Extension Service and Associate Professor
Emeritus of Speech, reappointed to active status Fall term, 1989
Joseph E. Vaughn, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to active status,
University year, 1989-90
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Paul N. Courant, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Research Scientist Institute of Public Policy Studies, appointed Director of the Institute of
Public Policy Studies, for a one-year term
Wayne K. Davis, Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, appointed
Assistant Dean for Medical Education, Medical School
Harold R. Johnson, from Dean of the School of Social Work, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and
Professor of Health Gerontology to Dean of the School of Social Work, Professor of Social Work,
with tenure, and Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure
Graham Kalton, Chair and Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, appointed Professor of Statistics,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


-41 -



September Meeting, 1989


Robert P. Kelch, Chair and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, appointed Assistant
Dean for Clinical Affairs, Medical School
Thomas D. Landefeld, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, appointed Assistant Dean for
Research and Graduate Studies, Medical School
Janet H. Lawrence Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean of the
School of Education, for a two-and-one-half-year term, January 1, 1990
Sheryl S. Pearson Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
appointed Chair of the Department of Humamties, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
UM-Dearborn, for a one-year term
Edward E. Sullivan, Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair of the Department of
Education, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Fint, for a five-year term, July 1, 1989
Paul K. Trojan, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
appointed Interim Dean of the School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, for a one-year term
Keshav S. Varde, Professor of Mechanical Engineermng, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, appointed Associate
Dean of the School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, for a one-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Alumni Association Business and FinancialAffairs Committee
Cedrc V. Fricke, reappointed for a one-year term, Juy 1, 1989 - June 30, 1990
William B. Krumm, reappointed for a one-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1990
John B. Schroeder, reappointed for a one-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1990
School of Dentistrv Executive Committee
Dennis E. Lopat, for a three-year term, November 1, 1989 - October 31, 1992, vice E. Richard McPhee,
term expired
Emerson Robinson, for a three-year term, November 1, 1989 - October 31, 1992, vice Charles Shipman,
Jr., term expired
Honorar Degrees Committee
Ronald Gibala, for a three-year term, July 1 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice Leo F. McNamara, term expired
Glenn E. Watkins, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 - June 30,1992, vice Andrew F. Nagy, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Richard L. Kennedy, reappointed ex officio member
Farris W. Womack, ex officio member, vice Henry Johnson
Museum of Art Executive Committee
Margarete Baum to serve until January 1, 1990, vice Mignonette Yin Cheng, on sabbatical leave
R. Ward Bissell, for the remainder of the term ending June 30 1990 vice Marvin J. Eisenberg, retired
Alfred S. Sussman, reappointed for a six-month term, July 1, 1989 - December 31, 1989
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Edward M. Gramlich, for the remainder of a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice
Richard C. Porter, term expired
Abigail J. Stewart, for the remainder of a two-year term, September 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991, vice Sherry B.
Ortner, resigned
UM-Dearbom Citizens Advisorv Committee
Charles G. Adams, for a four-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1993
Shirley Young, for a four-year term, September 1, 1989 - August31, 1993
Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law. The Regents
approved the appointment of Eugene D. Genovese as the Thomas E. Sunderland
Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall term, 1989.
Henry King Ransom Professor of Law. The Regents approved the
reappointment of Yale Kamisar as the Henry King Ransom Professor of Law for a
five-year term, effective September 1, 1989.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law. Bruno E. Simma was appointed the
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law for the Fall term, 1989.


-42 -



September Meeting, 1989


Norman Freehling Visiting Professor. The Regents approved the appointment
of Donald McCloskey as the Norman Freehling Visiting Professor from September 19
through September 29, 1989.
Navy Officer Education Program. Philip G. Klintworth was appointed Chair of
the Navy Officer Education Program, for a three-year term, effective August 11, 1989.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Bradford L. Angelini, M.SArch., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School of Art
Ronald A. Sekulski, MA., Assistant Professor of Art
School of Business Administration
Kaushik I. Amin, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance
Douglas J. Skinner, M.S., Assistant Professor of Accounting
School of Dentistrv
H. Dexter Barber, Jr., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1989
Patricia A. Bauer, D.D.S., M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry Jul 1, 1989
Michael J. Guest, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July i, 1989
Kimito Hoashi, D.D.S M.S., Lecturer in Dentistrv July 1 1989
David M. Lenhart, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1989
Craig D. McDow D.M.D   Lecturer in Dentistry and Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1989
Walter S. Michajfenko, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1989
Margaret A. Minneman, M.S., Lecturer in Dental Hygiene, August 15, 1989
Ellen Sachs, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1989
Steven M. Sullivan, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1989
School of Education
Pamela A. Moss, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
College of Engineering
JohnT. Coffey, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Gregory M. Hulbert, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Marc Perlin, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Ocean Engineering, August 1, 1989
Allen C. Ward, Sc.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Steven M. Yahsove, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
School of Information and Libraryv Studies
Joseph W. Janes, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information and Library Studies
College of Literature. Science. and the Arts
Matthew J. Alexander Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Keletso E. Atkins, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies
Gregory Clark, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, July 1, 1989
Andre M. Cooper, M.Phil., Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Carolyn A. Dean, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Patricia 0. Ezekiel, MA., Lecturer in English Language and Literature
Miguel F. Guilarte, M.Phil., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Valerie A. Kivelson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Karl R. Landis, Ph.D. Lecturer in Sociology
Randy J. Larsen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
John M. Myhill, Ph.D  Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Hayg H. Oshagan, Ph:.., Assistant Professor of Communication


-43 -



September Meeting, 1989


Jeffrey G. Parker, M.S., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Juan C. Redondo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Gideon A. Rosen, A.B., Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Jurgen Schnitker, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Patricia A. Simpson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures
Jiayang Sun Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics
Yasser A. Tabbaa, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art
Wing-Keung To, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Medical School
Julia C. Andreoni, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases July 1 1989
Anders Astrom, h.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, June 1 1989
Mark M. Baiorek M.D. Lecturer in Family Practice, Juy 17 1989
James R. Baker Jr., M.., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Ahmad A. Beydoun, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1 1989
Linas A. Bieliauskas, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, July, 1989
Beth A. Bowling, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1989
Dean E. Brenner, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 17, 1989
Frank C. Brosius III, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Hugh Calkins, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Gregory M. Christman, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1989
WayneT. Cornblath, M.D., Instructor in Ophthalmology, July 10, 1989
Robertson D. Davenport, M.D., Lecturer in Pathology July 1, 1989
Shlomo A. Dotan, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1989
Gerald R. Dreslinski, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Alan S. Eiser, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, March 1, 1989
Mark A. Elliott, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 17, 1989
Ramon M. Esclamado, M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, July 1,1989
Rawden W. Evans M.D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1989
Thomas S. Frank, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology July 1, 1989
Kirk A. Frey, M.D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Neurology,
July 1, 1989
Warren L. Garner, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 1, 1989
Paul G. Gianaris, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Joel W. Godard, M.D. Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1989
Gregory P. Graziano, M.D., Instructor in Surgery, July 10, 1989
Sumandeep S. Groh, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 17, 1989
Thomas J. Gross, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Howard B. Gutstein, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 14, 1989
William L. Hasler, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Jufyl, 1989
Jeanne Hassing, M.D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1989
Anne M. Hepner, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Thomas F. Hitchcock M.D., Instructor in Surgery, July 17 1989
Joseph Holoshitz, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 5 1989
William W. Hurd, M.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Michael T. Johnson, D.O6., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1989
Kathy L. Kahn, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, August 1, 1989
Joseph C. Kolars, M.D. Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Steven Kronick, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1989
Sara L. Langer, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1989
Alan B. Leichtman M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Randolph J. Lipchik, M.D.t Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Tina C. Mason, M.D. Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, August 1, 1989
Vickie L. Massey, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1989
Marykutty Mathai, M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology, August 15, 1989
Gregory J. McGinn, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1989
Angela L. McLoughlin, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, September 18, 1989
James H. Meador-Woodruff, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, July 1, 1989
Jon N. Meliones, M.D  Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1989
Elaine S. Pomeranz, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 1, 1989
Ayman Rifai, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, July 1, 1989
John M. Robertson M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1989
Charles W. Ross, I.D., Lecturer in Pathology, July 1, 1989
Donald A. Ross, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 17, 1989
Paula C. Schlesinger, Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 15, 1989
James F. Selwa, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1989


-44 -



September Meeting, 1989


Scott R. Sneed, M.D., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, July 24, 1989
Joseph M. Sutton, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Ju y 1 1989
Hassan N. Taki, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1989
Amir Tavakkol, Ph.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, June 1, 1989
Richard H. Turnage M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1989
Peter N. Verlee, M.D. Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Roger P. Vermilion, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1989
Edwin G. Wilkins, M.D., Instructor in Surgery July 15, 1989
Brent C. Williams, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Nancy J. Wilson, M.D. Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Phillips H. Winter, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1989
School of Music
M. Louise A. Pope, M.M., Lecturer in Music
School of Natural Resources
Donna L. Hall Diploma Ingenieur Assistant Professor of Natural Resources
Glenn L. Smith, M.LA., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources
School of Nursing
Meri B. Kennedy, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Mary A. Norton, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
Division of Phvsical Education
John R. Vivian, M.S.Ed., Lecturer in Sports Management and Communication
School of Public Health
Stuart A. Batterman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health
Peter S. Fajans, M.D., Assistant Professor of International Health, August 1, 1989
Alfred Franzblau, M.D., Assistant Professor of Occupational Medicine
Brenda W. Gillespie, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics
Marc A. Zimmerman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Poonam Arora, MA., Lecturer i Enlish
Marilee B. Parsons, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology and Biochemistry
Robert D. Russell, Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ar History
Francisco Soto, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Spanish
David Hwa H. Yoon, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
Sung-Jea Ko, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Jay P. Belanger, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Roy S. Hanashiro, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Patrick L. Mason, Ph.D, Assistant Professor of Economics
Russell A. Schenck, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
Gregory W. Trianosky, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy
NancyC. Webb, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
UM-Flint School of Management
JoAnn L. Asquith, M.BA., Assistant Professor of Management
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989
School of Business Administration
Ronen Israel, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Thelma K. Thomas, from Lecturer in History of Art and Assistant Curator of the Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology to Instructor in History of Art and Assistant Curator of the Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology


-45 -



September Meeting, 1989


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Eugene W. Anderson, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing
Thomas P. Murtha, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of International Business
College of Literature Science and the Arts
Paul M. Wortman, from Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, School of
Public Health, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, and Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center, Institute for Social Research, to Professor of Psychology, without tenure, and Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, June 1, 1989
Medical School
Leslie B. Aldrich, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Susan Sheldon, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pathology, May 15, 1989
Robert M. Strieter, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
School of Public Health
Lynda A. Anderson, from Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs to Assistant Professor of
Health Behavior and Health Education
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Daniel P. Rutledge, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Management
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Gunnar G. Birkerts, Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professor and Professor of
Architecture, with tenure retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
James A. Chaffers, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Robert M. Darvas, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Allan G. Feldt, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1990 - May 31,
1994
James A. Turner, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
School of.Art
Mignonette Y. Cheng, Professor of Art, with tenure sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Alfred F. Hinton, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Jeanne A. Snyder, Assistant Professor of Art, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Takeshi Takahara, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - December 31, 1990
School of Business Administration
George D. Cameron III, Professor of Business Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Lee E. Danielson, Professor of Human Resource Management, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1 1990 - May 31, 1991
Robert W. Haessler, Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
Judith S. R. Olson, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990.
James S. Reece, Professor of Corporate Strategy and Operations Management, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
School of Dentistry
Robert M. Bradley Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1990
School of Education
Phyllis C. Blumenfeld, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Calvin 0. yer, Professor of Education, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
Frederick L. Goodman, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1990
Robert B. Kozma, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical feave, July 1, 1989 - April 30,
1990


-46 -



September Meeting, 1989


College of Engneerin
Claus Borgnaikke Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 19t)
Paul B. Hays, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic
and Space Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Robert M. Howe, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Anastassios N. Perakis, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Egons Tons, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
Law School
James E. Krier, Earl Warren Delano Professor of Law, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Frederick F. Schauer, Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990
A. W. Brian Simpson, Charles F. and Edith J. Clyne Professor of Law, duty off campus, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Joseph Vining, Harry Burns Hutchins Collegiate Professor of Law, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Lawrence W. Waggoner, Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990
James B. White, L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of English, without tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Christina L. B. Whitman, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Richard J. Arculus, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure duty off campus,
September 1 - October 31, 1989; research leave, November 1 - December 31, 1989; and sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Robin Barlow, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Population Planning and
International Health without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Eshel Ben-Jacob, Assistant Professor of Physics, leave without salary, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Theodore C. Bergstrom, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1990
David D. Bien, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave September i, 1989 - May 31, 1990
H. Don Cameron, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, and Curator of the Museum of Zoology,
sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Jean R. Carduner, Professor of French, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Nicholas B. Dirks, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Anthropology,
without tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Peter L. Duren, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Albert Feuerwerker, A. M. and H. P. Bentley Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1990
Cedomil Goic, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor of Spanish-American Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Jack L. Goldberg, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Anne C. Herrmann, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31,1989
Stephen E. Hinds, Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 190
Diane 0. Hughes, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31 1990
John H. Humphrey Professor of Classical Archaeology and Latin, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - becember 31, 1990
David C. Huntmington, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, personal leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Carol F. Karlsen, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
K. Allin Luther, Professor of Persian Studies, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
Richard D. Mann, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, research leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
James S. Milne, Professor of Mathematics with tenure, research leave, January 1 - May 31 1990
Jeffrey A. Miron, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
Donald J. Munro, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990


-47 -



September Meeting, 1989


William B. Nightingale, Professor of English, with tenure, and Professor of Theatre and Drama, without
tenure, personal leave, January I- May 31 1990
Ilene T. Olken, Professor of Italian, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Richard C. Porter, Professor of Economics, wit tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Jacob M. Price, Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough January 1 - May 31, 1990
E. Ramirez-Christensen, Assistant Professor of Japanese Literature, duty off campus, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Arthur Rich, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
William G. Rosenberg, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 - December 31,
1989, and research leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
David 0. Ross, Jr., Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Edward D. Rothman, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Leonard M. Sander Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Hansjoerg Schelle, Professor of German, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Allen L. Shields, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Margaret R. Somers, Assistant Professor of Sociology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
1989 - May 31, 1990
John D. Speth, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure and Curator of the Museum of Anthropology,
duty off campus, September 1 - December 31, 1989, and sabbatical leave, January 1 -
December 31, 1990
John R. Stembridge, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31,1990
Gregory Tarle, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1, - May 31, 1990
B. Alan Taylor, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
J. Mills Thornton III, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Robert S. Tickle, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Richard W. Tillinghast, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Alejandro Uribe-Ahumada, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
J. David Velleman, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Jack L. Walker, Jr., Chair and Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
David J. Winter, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Paul M. Wortman, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -
December 31, 1990
Michael J. Wynne, Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Curator of the Herbarium, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - June 30, 1990
Stephen J. Yablo, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Medical School
Rudi Ansbacher, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, October 1, 1989 -
March 31, 1990
Robert H. Bartlett, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, sabbatical leave, August 1 - October 31, 1989 and
February 1 - April 30,1990
Kyung J. Cho, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 - December 31z 1989
George R. DeMuth, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases with tenure, retirement
furlough September 1 - October 31, 1989 and April 1 - May 31, 1990
A. Rebecca Smder, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - April 30, 1990
L. Paul Sonda III, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, duty off campus, July 1 - September 30,
1989
School of Natural Resources
Rachel Kaplan, Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Steven L. Yaffee, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1,
1989 - May 31, 1990
School of Nursin
Charlotte M. Mistretta Professor of Nursing Research, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
August 31, 1996
Lillian M. Simms, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Health
Gerontology, without tenure, Community Health Programs, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
-48 -



September Meeting, 1989


School of Public Health
Steven. Levine, Associate Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
Ma 31, 990
James E. Martmi, Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, sabbatical
leave January 1 - May 31 1990
Kenneth E. Warner Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Howard S. Zuckerman, Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
School of Social Work
Kathleen C. Faller, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Frank F. Maple, Jr., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Kristine A. Sefert, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Mary P. Van Hook, Assistant Professor of Social Work, personal leave September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Charles S. Wolfson, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1989 - May 31,
1991
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Elias Baumgarten, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30,
199a
Christopher C. Dahl, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, personal leave,
September 1, 1989 - April 30, 1990
Helen M. Graves, Associate Professor of Political Sciene, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
April 30, 1990
Gerald F. Moran, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave September 1 - December 31, 1989
Richard W. Roehl, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Emily L. Spinelli Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30, 1990
Julia C. Tai, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31 1989
Louis V. Zuck, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30, 1996
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
Izzeddin S. Habib, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Richard E. Czarnecki, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Amjad Umar, Associate Professor of Business Administrations with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Computer and Information Science, without tenure, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, research
leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Harry J. D'Souza, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
UM-Flint School of Management
James H. Wolter, Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective August 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Office of the Vice President for Research
Linda S. Wilson, Vice President for Research, July 5, 1989
Academic A fairs
Alfred W. Storey, Director of the University Extension Service, Associate Professor of Speech, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Faculty Associate, Center for Research on Learning and
Teaching
School of Art
Richard Raiselis, Assistant Professor of Art, May 31, 1989
School of Business Administration
Sudipto Bhattacharya, Professor of Finance, with tenure, June 30, 1989


-49 -



September Meeting, 1989


School of Dentistrv
Gerald T. Charbeneau, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Cori K. Crider, Lecturer in Dentistry, Julyl 28, 1989
Gloria J. Kerry, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Ross D. Margeson, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Pauline F. Steele, Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure
Collee of Enoneemne
Gideon Frieder, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, May 31, 1989
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
AquiIes A. Almansi, Assistant Professor of Economics, May 31, 1989
George Kish, Professor Emeritus of Geography, July 11, 1989
Jean B. Mann, Lecturer in Psychology and Lecturer in Studies in Religion, May 26, 1989
Patricia L. Stock, Lecturer in English Language and Literature
Mercedes Vaquero, Assistant Professor of Spanish, May 31, 1989
Medical School
Karen S. Borda, Assistant Professor of Radiology
Marc D. Brown, Lecturer in Dermatology August 18, 1989
Anthony T. Chapekis, Lecturer in Internaf Medicine, June 30, 1989
Terese M. Collins, Instructor in Internal Medicine June 30, 1989
Charles W. Drescher, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 30, 1989
Charles B. Hantler, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, July 14, 1989
Caryl J. Heaton, Instructor in Family Practice, July 14, 1989
David K Hirsh, Lecturer in Ophthalmolog, July 6, 1989
Michael P. Hopkins, AssistantProfessor oT Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 10, 1989
Ernest H. Johnson, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 31, 1989
Timothy M. Johnson, Lecturer in Dermatology, August 11, 1989
Nathan H. Kander Lecturer in Internal Medicine June 30, 1989
Thomas P. Kennedy, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 31, 1989
Joan Kotun, Instructor in Psychiatry
Kim A. Lindenmuth Instructor in Ophthalmology, June 30 1989
Monica M. Martin, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 31, 1989
Eric M. Morrell, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, August 24, 1989
Susan Raiselis, Lecturer in Psychiatry
Robert G. Smith, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1989
Ruth H. Strang, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Timothy J. Tinetti, Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, June 30, 1989
Stephen C. C. Wang, Instructor in Surgery, June 30 1989
IraS. Wollner, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, June 30, 1989
Martha M. Wright, Instructor in Ophthalmology, June 30, 1989
School of Music
Eric A. Becher, Assistant Professor of Music, August 11, 1989
Collee of Pharmac
David E. Smith, Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, August 18 1989
Division of Physical Education
William J. Qualls, Associate Professor of Sports Management and Communication, May 31, 1989
School of Public Health
Deborah Dwork, Assistant Professor of History of Public Health, May 31, 1989
Eugene N. Feingold, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Miriam E. Zolan, Assistant Professor of Biology
UM-Dearbomrn School of Engineering
Khashayar Khorasani, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, April 30, 1989
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Juan C. Esteva, Lecturer in Management and Lecturer in Computer Information Systems, Division of
Interdisciplinary Studies, June 30,1989
James D. Taylor, Assistant Professor of Management, April 30, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Wade E. Martin, Assistant Professor of Economics, May 31, 1989


-50 -



September Meeting, 1989


Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Gerald T. Charbeneau, D.D.S., professor of dentistry, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 1989.
After entering Michigan State Normal College (now Eastern Michigan
University) in 1942, Dr. Charbeneau joined the naval reserve and was sent to
Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea, Ohio, to complete predentistry training in the
United States Navy's V-12 program. He had already been accepted into the
University of Michigan's School of Dentistry and received his D.D.S. degree in 1948.
After earning his M.S. degree in pediatric dentistry in 1949, he joined the faculty as an
instructor in operative dentistry. In 1950, he also entered a part-time private practice.
From 1952-54, Dr. Charbeneau took a leave from the University to serve as a
captain in the United States Air Force during the Korean War. When he returned to
Ann Arbor, he gave up his part-time practice and began teaching full time. Between
1954 and 1959, he did research and taught in dental materials as well as in operative
dentistry. Dr. Charbeneau was promoted to assistant professor in 1955, associate
professor in 1958, and professor in 1965. He was named chair of the Department of
Operative Dentistry in 1969, and held that position until 1986.
Throughout his tenure at the University, one of Dr. Charbeneau's chief interests
has been the development of standards and criteria for appraising both materials and
procedures. In 1973, he went to the University of the Pacific's School of Dentistry to
work with Dr. Gunnar Ryge, a pioneer in clinical research in dental materials. He
adapted Dr. Ryge's evaluation concepts for assessing clinical characteristics of
restorative materials to the evaluation of student preclimcal and clinical performance,
which ultimately led to the development of a graduate course on the subject.
Dr. Charbeneau has organized two conferences on evaluation and has
developed guidelines for self-evaluation in operative dentistry that have been used in
other schools nationwide. He has also participated in over 60 M.S. theses, three Ph.D.
dissertations, and in many continuing education courses. Dr. Charbeneau was the
senior author and editor of the widely-used textbook, Principles and Practice of
Operative Dentistry, and contributed to the first six editions of Restorative Dental
Materials. He is the author of more than 40 publications on clinical evaluation
methodology, pit and fissure sealants, and other restorative materials and procedures.
Dr. Charbeneau has served on numerous Dental School and University
committees. His membership in professional organizations includes service on the
American Dental Association's Council on Dental Materials, Instruments, and
Equipment from 1974-80 (vice chair, 1977-80). He also served as vice chair of the
American National Standards Institute Committee MD156 from 1982-87, and has
been a consultant to various schools, businesses, and panels. Currently, he chairs the
FDA Dental Products Panel.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Gerald T. Charbeneau Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Eugene N. Feingold, professor of health services management and policy, retired
from active faculty status on August 31, 1989, after a distinguished career as a scholar
and teacher.
Professor Feingold received his B.A. degree from Cornell University in 1952.
He received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1958 and 1960, respectively, from
Princeton University.


-51 -



September Meeting, 1989


Professor Feingold joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1960 as an
instructor of political science in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. He
was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, and in 1966 transferred to the School of
Public Health as an associate professor of medical care organization. He was
promoted to professor in 1971. From 1971-77, Professor Feingold served as chair of
the Department of Medical Care Organization and director of the Bureau of Public
Health Economics. In 1977, he was appointed associate dean in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, where he had primary responsibility for the
faculty research and publication programs and for program development and
evaluation. He remained associate dean until 1984. From 1979-80, he also served as
acting dean of the graduate school.
During his tenure with the University of Michigan, Professor Feingold provided
extensive service to the University and to the community. He chaired numerous
University committees, including the Committee on Economic Status of the Faculty,
Committee on Student Support Programs, and the Task Force on Minority Student
Concerns.
Professor Feingold currently serves as vice chair of the executive board of the
American Public Health Association. He previously chaired the Association's Medical
Care Section, Intersectional Council, and Constitution and Bylaws Committee. He is
also vice president of the Michigan League for Human Services, and is a member of
the board of directors of the Michigan Public Health Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Eugene N.
Feingold Professor Emeritus of Health Services Management and Policy.
Basil S. Georgopoulos, professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Institute for Social Research,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1989.
Professor Georgopoulos received his B.A. degree from Bowling Green State
University in 1952, his M.A. degree from the University of California at Los Angeles
in 1953, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1957.
A member of the Institute for Social Research for 35 years, Professor
Georgopoulos joined the institute in 1954 as an assistant study director in the Survey
Research Center. He was promoted to study director in 1956, senior study director in
1961, and program director in 1966. He was appointed assistant professor of
psychology in 1961, and was promoted to associate professor in 1964 and professor in
1969.
Professor Georgopoulos' most widely cited research involved development of a
model of the effectiveness of work-performing organizations, especially hospitals. His
model focuses on problem-solving and structure in effective organizations. In
addition, his articles and books contributed substantially to defining the concept of
organizational effectiveness for the field of organizational studies. For 30 years, his
studies of problem-solving and effectiveness in organizations have contributed both to
social science theories of work organizations and to the practice of health care
management.
In 1962, Professor Georgopoulos published (with Floyd C. Mann) The
Community General Hospital. This work is considered a classic in the study of
organizations; it won the James A. Hamilton Hospital Administrators' Book Award
from the American College of Healthcare Executives. In 1974, Professor
Georgopoulos won the same award for his book, Organization Research on Health
Institutions. These award-winning books not only influenced a generation of
organizational researchers, but also shaped the emerging profession of health care
management.


-52 -



September Meeting, 1989


Professor Georgopoulos has also published numerous articles in scholarly and
professional journals concerning the structure and functioning of complex
organizations. The fact that several of these articles have been reprinted years after
their original publication is an indication of the enduring nature of his work. For his
many contributions, Professor Georgopoulos has been recognized as a Fellow in both
the American Psychological Association and the American Sociological Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming Basil S. Georgopoulos Professor Emeritus of Psychology
and Research Scientist Emeritus.
Gloria J. Kerry, D.D.S., professor of dentistry, retired from active faculty status
on August 31, 1989, after a long association with the University of Michigan and the
School of Dentistry.
Born in Detroit, Dr. Kerry received her B.S., D.D.S., and M.S. degrees in 1955,
1956, and 1966, respectively, all from the University of Michigan. She had a private
practice in Detroit from 1956-74. Dr. Kerry joined the School of Dentistry faculty in
1974 as an associate professor in the Department of Periodontics; she was promoted
to professor in 1979. She has also maintained a part-time private periodontics practice
in Ann Arbor since 1975.
Dr. Kerry's clinical research has focused on the prevention and treatment of
periodontal disease, which is the primary cause of tooth loss for many adults. She has
studied antibiotic therapy and healing after surgery, and how to prevent recurrence.
She has also published work on root surface roughness following the use of ultrasonic
instruments and hand curettes, methods of viewing root surfaces, and oral
manifestations of systemic diseases.
Dr. Kerry's extensive involvement in professional associations includes service
as president of the American Association of Women Dentists, the Russell W. Bunting
Periodontal Study Club, the National Foundation for the Prevention of Oral Disease,
the Washtenaw District Dental Society, the Detroit District Dental Society Central
Component, and the Kappa Kappa Gamma Alumni Association of Ann Arbor. She
has also served as secretary of the Michigan Association of Professions.
From 1981-84, Dr. Kerry was a consultant to the National Institutes of Health
Subcommittee on Periodontal Disease, and from 1980-83, she was a consumer advisor
for the American Dental Association. She has received the Alumnae Achievement
Award of Kappa Kappa Gamma and is a Fellow in both the American and the
International Colleges of Dentists. Dr. Kerry is also active in the American and
Michigan Dental Associations, the Washtenaw District Dental Society, the
International and American Associations of Dental Research, the Federation
Dentaire Internationale, the Midwest Society of Periodontology, the Michigan Society
of Periodontists, and the Michigan Association of Professions.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her dedicated
service by naming Gloria J. Kerry Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Ross D. Margeson, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry in the Department of
Operative Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1989, after a long
association with the University and the School of Dentistry.
Born in British Columbia, Dr. Margeson attended the University of British
Columbia in Vancouver until 1945. He then entered the University of Michigan,
where he received his D.D.S. degree in 1949 and his M.S. degree in operative dentistry
in 1952. He became a United States citizen in 1951.
Dr. Margeson joined the faculty as a clinical instructor of dentistry in 1949. He
was promoted to assistant professor in 1954 and associate professor in 1970. In


-53 -



September Meeting, 1989


addition to his half-time teaching responsibilities, he maintained a part-time practice.
As a faculty member, Dr. Margeson conducted a study on establishing time
parameter guidelines for various patient treatment procedures in operative dentistry
for third and fourth-year students. In addition, he contributed the text, Principles and
Practice of Operative Dentistry.
A member of the Michigan and the American Dental Associations and the
Washtenaw District Dental Society (WDDS), Dr. Margeson has served as chair of the
membership committee of the WDDS. He is also past president of Omicron Kappa
Upsilon, the dentistry honor society.
Within the School of Dentistry, Dr. Margeson has served on the student affairs
committee and the oral diagnosis tract committee. But his principal contribution to
the school has been his performance as a respected clinical teacher. He often
assumed the role of special advisor by providing assistance and direction for students
who were struggling. He also contributed to the development of a number of visual
aids for his department, and was responsible for organizing and directing the operative
dentistry clinic in the dental assistant utilization program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Ross D. Margeson Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Pauline F. Steele, professor of dental hygiene and former director of the
curriculum in dental hygiene, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1989,
after more than 20 years of dedicated service.
Professor Steele received her B.A. degree in 1946 from Miami University in
Oxford, Ohio. She worked in office management until 1954, when she decided to
change her career focus and enroll in the dental hygiene program at Ohio State
University. At Ohio State, she received her certificate in dental hygiene in 1956, her
B.S. degree in dental hygiene education in 1957, and her M.S. degree in health
education in 1959. From 1959-61, Professor Steele was an instructor in Ohio State
University's hygiene program and a supervisor of student teachers.
In 1961, Professor Steele was named assistant professor and director of dental
hygiene at West Virginia University, where she organized and directed a new dental
hygiene program. This program was the first to have a full, four-year curriculum. She
went on to the University of Cincinnati as an associate professor in 1967, also to
initiate and direct a dental hygiene program. She joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1968 as professor of dentistry (later changed to professor of dental hygiene)
and director of the curriculum in dental hygiene.
As the professor evolved, Professor Steele initiated changes in the hygiene
program at the University of Michigan: she provided more clinical experiences for
hygiene students as their duties expanded, and supervised the implementation of a
new, four-year hygiene curriculum. Seeing a need for a book that would present an
informative and educational approach to diverse clinical experiences for hygiene
students, she set about compiling one, bringing together essays written by specialists
who were educators in related areas. The result was a textbook for hygienists entitled
Dental Specialties for the Dental Hygienist.
Throughout her career, Professor Steele has been an active author and editor.
She has written articles and reviews, and has served as contributor and editor for two
other books: Review of Dental Hygiene Questions and Answers, and Dimensions of
Dental Hygiene. Professor Steele is also past president of the Ohio State Dental
Hygienists' Association, and was appointed to the Michigan Dental Associations'
Special Committee on Auxiliary Education Programs. She was associate editor of the
Journal of the American Dental Hygiene Association, and was a member of the
American Dental Associations' Committee on Dental Hygiene (Council of National


-54 -



September Meeting, 1989


Board of Dental Examiners). She has also been an ADHA regional consultant and a
consultant to HEW's committee responsible for developing proficiency examinations
for dental auxiliaries.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her dedicated
service by naming Pauline F. Steele Professor Emeritus of Dental Hygiene.
Alfred W. Storey, associate professor of speech, director of the University
Extension Service, and faculty associate in the Center for Research on Learning and
Teaching, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1989, following 36 years of
service.
Professor Storey received his A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1949, 1950, and 1954, respectively. He joined the faculty in 1953 as an
instructor in speech and as manager of the Michigan High School Forensic
Association. He was named assistant professor of speech in 1960 and associate
professor in 1967. At the University Extension Service, Professor Storey was
appointed assistant director in 1960, associate director in 1965, acting director in 1970,
and director in 1971.
In addition to his teaching responsibilities, Professor Storey also retained an
appointment as faculty associate at the Center for Research on Learning and
Teaching. He served as president of the Adult Education Association of Michigan
from 1965-66 and of the Adult Education of the U.S.A. from 1971-72. He was a
member of the board of trustees of Adrian College from 1978-87. Other assignments
include service on the legislative assembly of the Speech Association of America and
the University's Academic Affairs Advisory Council and Broadcasting Committee.
As a faculty member in the Department of Speech Communication (now the
Department of Communication), Professor Storey taught very popular courses in
group communication and acted as course director for public speaking classes. He
authored numerous articles on the art and practice of effective oral presentations and
on the art of effective teaching. His students consistently rated him as an outstanding
teacher.
The Regents now salute this distinguished speech educator for his dedicated
service by naming Alfred W. Storey Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech and
Director Emeritus of the University Extension Service.
Ruth H. Strang, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1989.
Dr. Strang received her B.A. degree from Wellesley College in 1944. She then
entered New York Medical College, where she graduated with an M.D. degree in
1949. The humane concerns, clinical proficiency, and intellectual superiority she
demonstrated were recognized by the New York Medical College faculty which
presented her with its Cor et Manus Award.
Following her internship and residency at Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospitals,
Dr. Strang joined the faculty of New York Medical College. She then entered the
rapidly developing speciality of pediatric cardiology by taking fellowships at Babies
Hospital (Columbia University), Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, and finally at
Children's Hospital at Harvard. In 1962, she joined the faculty at the University of
Michigan as an assistant professor. She was promoted to associate professor in 1967
and to professor in 1970.
Dr. Strang is board certified in pediatrics and pediatric cardiology. She is a
Fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Cardiology,
the New York Academy of Sciences, and the New York Academy of Medicine, and is
a member of a number of other professional societies. She participated in the


-55 -



September Meeting, 1989


Women's Research Club of the University of Michigan and occupied several posts in
that organization. She also served as president of the Association of Faculties of
Pediatric Nurse Associate/Practitioner Programs.
Dr. Strang's career has been characterized by excellence in clinical care,
leadership in education, and profound dedication to service. As her career developed,
she continued her interests in cardiology, both in her scientific writings and
presentations and in the care of cardiac patients. In 1965, Dr. Strang became director
of pediatrics at Wayne County General Hospital, later the Westland Medical Center, a
position she held until 1985. This hospital was a close affiliate of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and played a vital role in medical education during that period. In
1985, she resumed clinical activities at the C.S. Mott Hospital and its related clinical
facilities.
While ably fulfilling her clinical, educational, and administrative responsibilities,
Dr. Strang also was active in local, state, and national organizations, including the
Comprehensive Health Planning Council of Southeastern Michigan, the March of
Dimes, the National Cystic Fibrosis Research Foundation, the Out Wayne County
Head Start Health Advisory Board, and the National Board of Pediatric Nurse
Practitioners and Associates. Her community service includes assistance to the
executive board of Broadway Parent and Child Drop-In Center and to the Ann Arbor
Citizen's Advisory Council to the Juvenile Court. These diverse commitments did not
prevent her extensive participation in the activities of her church.
In recognition of her esteemed career and her many and varied professional
contributions, the Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Ruth H. Strang Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases.
Memorials
The Regents unanimously adopted the following memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
June 1, 1989, of Fredrica K. Bartz, professor of English and chair of the Department
of English at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Professor Bartz was greatly appreciated as a teacher, a scholar, and a campus
leader. Her special fields of interest were the novel, eighteenth-century studies,
science fiction, and the teaching of English, with all areas well represented among her
publications.
Professor Bartz received her A.B. degree from the University of Michigan-Flint
in 1960, her A.M. degree from the University of Michigan in 1963, and her Ph.D.
degree from Michigan State University in 1972. She joined the University of
Michigan-Flint faculty in 1967, having taught before then at Kearsley High School,
Central High School, and Mott Community College. She was a member of the
Modern Language Association, the National Council of Teachers of English, the
American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies, the International Society for
Eighteenth-Century Studies, and the Michigan Association of Department Chairs.
Although an active scholar and researcher, Professor Bartz considered herself
first and foremost a teacher. Her career was marked by an extraordinary range of
pedagogical interests, with more than thirty different courses taught at the University
of Michigan-Flint. She was among the most popular teachers on campus, known for
her ready wit, her careful organization, and her ability to draw students into
intellectual discussion. In 1989, she was the recipient of the Distinguished Professor
Award, given annually by the Student Government Council.
Professor Bartz' interest in the teaching of English was reflected as well in her


-56 -



September Meeting, 1989


editorship of the Journal of English Teaching Techniques from 1976-83. Despite severe
budget constraints, she was able to more than double the number of subscribers within
a few years while at the same time creating a lively forum for the exchange of
pedagogical ideas.
Equally significant was Professor Bartz' service as chair of the English
Department from 1973-77, and again from 1984 until her death at the age of 62. In
her capacity as chair, she encouraged the growth and diversification of the
department, which now includes a large writing program, a linguistics program, and a
rapidly growing program in communication. The successful development of the
department is a result of her abounding curiosity, her broad range of intellectual
interests, and her respect for fields outside her own. It is also a result of her respect
for the individual and the fact that she created a work environment in which each
member of the department felt valued and accepted.
Although never wishing to be the center of attention, Professor Bartz was
continually active behind the scenes in enhancing the intellectual life of the campus.
She was instrumental in arranging the campus visits of Alan Paton and Theodore
Sturgeon; she also foresaw the need for our faculty to become computer literate long
before others did and worked tirelessly to obtain resources to fill this need.
We will all miss her wisdom, her quiet encouragement, her humor, and her
boundless energy for making tings more interesting. As we mourn the loss of this
great teacher and scholar, our condolences go to Mary Ellen Raleigh and Victoria
Bartz Roach.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved changes to previously approved degree lists and the final
degree list for the May, 1989 Law School Commencement. In moving approval of
these actions, Regent Smith noted that her son's name, Glenn Laurence Smith, had
been misspelled on the Law School Commencement list. This error has been noted by
the Law School, and the spelling correction will be submitted for approval at the
October meeting.
Honorary Degrees. Regent Roach moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the
Regents unanimously approved, recommendations by the Honorary Degrees
Committee for individuals to be awarded honorary degrees and Outstanding Alumni
Achievement Awards.
Annual Report of Investments
Vice President Womack presented the Report of Investments for the Fiscal
Year Ended June 30, 1989. He noted that during that time the endowment grew from
$308 million to $418 million. The real value of the endowment was enhanced by 3.3%,
indicating that the asset allocation program is meeting the objective of adding real
value to the endowment.
Vice President Womack responded to questions and comments from the
Regents about the investment report. Regent Power suggested that future reports
note how the total return for the fiscal year was derived. Regent Smith expressed
concern about the return from the Donor Pooled Income Fund. Vice President
Womack responded that the fund's managers are aware of the University's concerns
about the fund's performance.


-57 -



September Meeting, 1989


State Auditor General Report and Responses for UM-Flint
Vice President Womack presented the summary of the Michigan Auditor
General Report and Responses for UM-Flint. In response to a question from Regent
Smith, University Auditor Carl Smith said that the responses represent an institutional
response that apply to the entire University, and not only to UM-Flint.
Under the heading of "Construction Project Cost Increases", Regent Roach
requested that the word "reported" in the first sentence of the University's response to
the recommendation be changed to "approved". The sentence would then read "All
remodeling projects over $200,000 are required to be approved by the Board of
Regents." Mr. Smith said that the change would be made prior to submitting the
document to the state Auditor General.
Following further comments from Mr. Smith about certain details of the report,
Regent Smith moved adoption of the State Auditor General Report and Responses
for UM-Flint. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Sale of Regents of the University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate
Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989
Vice President Womack reported that pursuant to the authority granted by the
Regents at the June meeting, the University had placed $8 million of variable rate
demand bonds at an initial interest rate of 5.6%.
There was some discussion about the progress that the Athletic Department has
made thus far in achieving its fundraising goal of $10.5 million for the facility and $1.5
million for the furnishings. Vice President Cosovich said that the Department had
raised over $10 million in cash, plus $200,000 in kind, plus some gifts in process that
had not yet been reported.
Conflict of Interest Item (Proposed Contract with Jon Rush, a University Employee)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously authorized the University to enter into a contract with Jon Rush,
Professor in the School of Art, for a proposed sculpture for the Institute for Social
Research courtyard.
This proposed arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute, as Professor Rush is a University employee who would also be a party
to the contract with the University. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Jon
Rush, the sculptor.
2. Financial terms of the contract are set by the State of Michigan
contract developed as a part of the Art in Public Places program. The
total cost for the design, fabrication and delivery of the piece will be
$52,000. Duration of the contract will be until September 1990. No
facilities or services of the University are included in the contract and
no University employees are assigned for fulfillment of the contract.
-58 -



September Meeting, 1989


3. Pecuniary interest is the amount paid for the services as outlined in
paragraph 2 above.
Inglis House Roof Replacement
Regent Power moved approval of a project to replace the slate roof on Inglis
House. Regent Waters seconded the motion.
Regent Power requested that information be displayed in Inglis House
describing Mr. and Mrs. Inglis and their significance to the state and the University.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Maternal and Child Health Center Shelled Space
Regent Baker moved that the Regents approve the revised budget, authorize
soliciting of construction bids, and authorize award of a contract to complete two
floors of shelled space within the Maternal and Child Health Center, currently under
construction. Regent Brown seconded the motion.
Regent Baker noted that the Maternal and Child Health Center project budget
is substantially over the budget that the Regents had originally approved. He
requested that future Plant Extension Reports note the budget that is originally
approved by the Regents, as well as the final construction cost.
Regent Smith suggested that the contractor not hire any subcontractors who are
in litigation against the University.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion passed
unanimously.
Proposed Subcontract between the University of Michigan and the CACHE
Corporation
Regent Roach moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, authorization for the University to enter into a subcontract with the
CACHE Corporation to perform work required by the University's contract with the
National Science Foundation, entitled "A Focus on Developing Innovative
Engineering Students."
The proposed subcontract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute, since the project director, H. Scott Fogler, is both a University employee in
the College of Engineering and an officer (president) of CACHE Corporation, the
subcontractor. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1. Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and the
CACHE Corporation.
2. The agreement is consistent with standard University subcontract
terms and conditions. There are no publication restrictions for the
University. CACHE will use its own facilities and personnel to


-59 -



September Meeting, 1989


perform the subcontract. The subcontract is for $26,400 and runs 29
months, beginning January 1, 1989.
3. Professor H. Scott Fogler will be paid $1,000 for his term as president.
This salary payment is not related to the subcontract effort.
4. Dr. David Hemmelbau, of the University of Texas, will sign the
agreement as executive officer of CACHE.
Proposed Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Microsensor,
a Small Business owned by a University Employee
Regent Roach moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, an agreement whereby the University would enter into an agreement with
Michigan Microsensor to use University facilities (the Electron Microbeam Analysis
Laboratory) to perform commercial testing services.
The proposed agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute, since the owner of Michigan Microsensor, Seldon B. Crary, is also a University
employee in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Michigan Microsensor.
2. The contract will be in the form of a purchase order, whereby
Michigan Microsensor will reimburse the University for the use of the
Electron Microbeam Analysis Laboratory (EMAL) as required to
perform the commercial testing services. Approximately 20 hours of
EMAL time will be required. No University compensation or release
time is required for faculty members involved in this effort. The
University will have access to proprietary materials of Michigan
Microsensor's contractor and will be required to return such materials
upon completion of the tests.
3. While the contract between Michigan Microsensor and the University
does not provide any stated pecumary interest for Dr. Crary, it should
be noted that, as sole owner of Michigan Microsensor, he will be
compensated by the primary contract for services provided in the
further analysis of data generated from testing of samples by EMAL.
The primary contract is for $17,950, of which approximately $5,600
represents the subcontract with the University for the use of EMAL.
UM-Flint Riverfront Campus Development
Chancellor Jones explained that the Regents were being asked to formally
comply with the conditions set forth in a contract made with the Mott Foundation in
1978. Pursuant to this contract, UM-Flint agreed to "transfer all University rights and
obligation in the Mott Memorial Building to the Charles Stewart Mott Community
College" following "construction and occupation of a planned science building on the
downtown campus of the University of Michigan-Flint."


-60 -



September Meeting, 1989


The UM-Flint having completed construction and occupation of the new
Murchie Science Building in September of 1988, Regent Smith moved approval of the
transfer of the rights as described in the contract. Regent Varner seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Baker expressed the Regents' gratitude to the Mott Foundation for their
generous assistance in the development of the UM-Flint campus.
Memorandum of Understanding with NOAA to Establish the Cooperative Institute
for Limnology and Ecosystem Research
Vice President Kelly informed the Regents that President Duderstadt and an
official from the U.S. Department of Commerce have signed a Memorandum of
Understanding which establishes a new Cooperative Institute for Limnology and
Ecosystem Research based at the University of Michigan, as described in the Regents'
Communication.
University of Michigan Interim Policy on Discrimination and Discriminatory Conduct
by Students in the University Environment
President Duderstadt noted that the University's Policy on Discrimination and
Discriminatory Conduct by Students in the University Environment, adopted in April
of 1988, had been challenged in U.S. District Court. Because the University had not
yet received a copy of the written opinion, it had not yet decided whether to appeal the
recent court decision. Meanwhile, he said that he was "personally committed to
maintaining on this campus an opportunity for learning free of discrimination for
every member of the University community."
He reiterated that on the University of Michigan campus, it is unacceptable to
discriminate, harass, or abuse any person because of their race, religion, ethnic group,
creed, sex, age, ancestry, marital status, sexual orientation, or physical handicap. He
also expressed the University's strong commitment to free speech and free expression
as guaranteed by the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and said that the
University is dedicated to allowing students and faculty "vigorous and open academic
discourse and intellectual inquiry".
He noted that the original Discriminatory Harassment Policy was designed to
expire at the end of December, 1989, at which time a permanent policy was to have
been put in place reflecting the experience of implementing the policy and further
consultation with the University and the external community. He said that the
administration still intended to bring a proposed permanent policy before the Regents
in December, 1989. That policy would reflect continuing consultation with students,
faculty and staff, and the community at large.
In the meantime, however, the President said that he wanted to have a general
student policy in effect that addresses serious instances of discriminatory harassment
by students. Therefore, he had decided the most appropriate course would be for him
to implement an interim policy to protect the rights of all students to a learning
environment free from harassment. He announced that he was thus taking action to
put such an interim policy in place under the powers granted to him by Regents Bylaw
2.01.


-61 -



September Meeting, 1989


President Duderstadt noted that this approach would allow flexibility to amend
the policy in the case that any changes would be required once the University received
the written opinion from the court case. He noted that in writing the interim policy,
the staff had sought the advice of constitutional law authorities from both the
University of Michigan and across the nation.
"We believe that the interim policy meets constitutional tests, while also
addressing our concerns about harassment," he concluded, noting that the interim
policy would be effective immediately, and would continue to be in effect until a
permanent policy could be proposed and adopted. The intent is for the permanent
policy to be adopted in December of 1989.
Regent Baker stated that he hahe d strong objections to implementation of the
temporary policy. He then read a prepared statement in which he urged the
University to "abandon the failed policy". [The complete text of the statement is on
file in the office of the Secretary of the University.] Regent Baker noted that a
university ought to be a place in which people are free to "seek after truth, no matter
where the search leads. Basic to the search for truth... is full-voiced unrestricted
speech, both spoken and written," he continued.
Regent Baker stated his belief that policies at the University that limit free
speech are like a "great weight from above" that "damages the institution, impedes and
may ultimately destroy the University's search for truth." He cited several examples of
incidents he was aware of that have occurred on campus in which students, professors,
and members of religious groups have been intimidated, threatened, or found in
violation of University policy because of certain ideas, opinions, or beliefs, they may
espouse.
Regent Baker reiterated his view that in its search for new knowledge and truth,
the University should be a place in which learning can take place with the fullest
freedom of speech, and that the Discriminatory Harassment Policy has created a
climate of fear and distrust on campus. He concluded by urging the University to
abandon the policy, adding that he hoped that University community would accept the
President's challenge to "debate the issue fully and thoroughly and with rational
discourse.
Regent Varner said that she supports the President's interim policy, noting that
"we can't just abandon policies because they are found to be imperfect by the courts,"
but rather should work toward perfecting them. She noted that the problems that
prompted the issuance of the original policy still need to be addressed.
Regent Smith commented that she opposed the original policy and that she
opposed the Interim Policy, because "any policy which restricts or appears to restrict
free speech is unacceptable to [her] and is contrary to the tenets of higher education."
Regent Roach said that there is tension between the University's attempt to
proscribe conduct which is improper, harmful, and interferes with its performance of
its mission and the broad protections granted to free speech by the Constitution. He
noted that there is some speech that is not protected, such as shouting "fire" in a
crowded theater. The University is proscribing conduct that causes a bad learning/
teaching environment.


-62 -



September Meeting, 1989


Regent Roach noted that despite the remarks made at Public Comments, there
had been active participation by student groups, including UCAR, in formulating the
student policy. He emphasized that this is an interim policy that will only be in effect
until December, and that it will be important for the Regents to review the report on
the administration of the policy.
Finally, Regent Roach reiterated his suggestion that the policy not be
approached from the standpoint of speech, but rather from the standpoint of
intentional infliction of emotional distress. He suggested that a statement that "no
student shall intentionally inflict emotional distress on another student" would stand
up to constitutional challenges, noting that there is a growing body of law that defines
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Regent Power supported Regent Roach's focus on emotional distress, noting
that harassment, meaning the intentional use of words or actions in order to cause
emotional distress to others, is not the same thing as speaking freely to express one's
opinion. "The distinction," according to Regent Power, "is on the intention and the
effect on the recipient. Harassment is not free speech." Regent Power said that
people who live in a community must behave according to norms of civilized conduct,
and this requires that there be a definition of unacceptable conduct. In so doing, the
consequences of engaging in unacceptable conduct must also be defined.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Vice President Kennedy said
that Associate Vice President Virginia Nordby and Vice President Johnson and their
staffs were preparing a report on implementation of the policy to this point, and that
this report would be presented to the Regents at their October meeting.
Regent Nielsen then commented about a pamphlet that described examples of
prohibited conduct that had been distributed and later withdrawn by the University
when it was discovered that the examples were erroneous. President Duderstadt
noted that the pamphlet had been distributed without the knowledge of the executive
officers, and that when they learned of it, it was withdrawn.
In response to another question from Regent Nielsen, the president said that he
was instituting the more narrow interim policy using the authority granted him by
Regents Bylaw 2.01; he was not requesting Board approval of the interim policy.
Regent Nielsen noted that the Board had an obligation to allow for discourse and
review of the policy by members of the University community, and he cautioned
against implementing any policy that had not been thoroughly discussed in that
manner. He suggested that a committee of Law School faculty review the policy and
issue a collective opinion of it.
Regent Brown said that he objected to Regent Baker's casting of the policy as
an attempt to limit free speech and to punish those who spoke freely. "That is not at
all what this Board or this University was trying to do," he said. He noted that all
speech is not constitutionally protected, and that the University was not attempting to
limit legal free speech. On the contrary, he continued, the University was actually
attempting to further enhance opportunities for discussion and free speech in the
classroom, dormitories, and elsewhere on campus so that people feel free to speak as
they desire without fear of action being taken against them for what they have said.
"The policy is in no way an attempt to limit free speech," according to Regent Brown.
"It is an attempt to encourage free speech and discussion within the University by


-63 -



September Meeting, 1989


prohibiting certain conduct and certain illegal speech which have a chilling effect on
the free discussion of ideas."
Regent Brown also commented that Judge Cohn's basing his decision about the
policy on the process used to write it, rather than on the content of what it said, was
unfortunate. He concluded by saying he supported the President's interim policy for
the short term, and that the Board is concerned with conduct that occasionally occurs
that is not consistent with the demeanor that should exist at the University. The net
effect of these incidents, he observed, is to limit free speech by chilling the discussion
of issues. "The entire purpose of our policy is to try to make a better climate on this
campus for intellectual pursuit... as is necessary in a great university."
Regent Baker emphasized his assertion that the very existence of such a policy
causes things to happen at the working level that change the nature of interaction
among people and inhibit the free expression of ideas. He cited an example he had
given earlier in which a teaching assistant threatened to give a student a failing grade
if the student persisted in writing a paper arguing against affirmative action in an
English class. That was not the intent of the policy, he argued, but that type of
situation is what occurs as a result of it.
Regent Power suggested that "merely because a policy is difficult to execute
does not mean that that policy should not be set forward." He felt that if the policy
distinguishes clearly between "harassment" and "expression", the example cited by
Regent Baker would be less likely to occur.
Regent Roach noted that the instances cited by Regent Baker did not involve
situations in which the policy was invoked, but merely instances in which University
staff or students acted inappropriately. Judge Cohn, in rendering his decision, had
cited examples in which the policy had been improperly administered by staff.
President Duderstadt observed that the University involved a balance of
tensions, some creative, and some destructive. In this case, the tension was between
the importance of freedom of expression and the importance of civility for the learning
environment. He expected that over the next several months the University
community would be able to achieve a balance of those tensions and in the end, create
a policy which protects the fundamental values of the institution and protects the
community as a learning community.
There being no further discussion, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the months of July
and August, 1989 totalled $565.65 and $546.40, respectively. The next meeting will
take place on October 19 and 20, 1989.
Riacard L. Sennedi, Sectary


-64 -



OCTOBER MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 19, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Happenings Room of the University
Center Building at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and asked Chancellor Jones to
introduce Professor Charles Weber, Chair of the Committee on the Economic Status
of the Faculty at UM-Flint.
Professor Weber said that faculty at UM-Flint appreciate the consideration the
Regents have had for salary problems in the past. Current concerns for Flint faculty
include the availability of flexible benefits programs and increases in the employee
portion of health care costs. Professor Weber described the specific areas in which
employee costs have increased, and concluded by noting that the Flint CESF will
address the issue of peer salary comparisons at its presentation to the Regents in the
spring.
1990-91 State Budget Request, UM-Ann Arbor
President Duderstadt introduced Provost Vest to present the 1990-91 State
Budget Request for the Ann Arbor campus.
Provost Vest described the role of the modern research university as the study of
past, present, and future issues; expanding the knowledge base; educating and
developing the leaders of tomorrow; providing a vital and relevant undergraduate
education; assisting in the economic development of the state; helping business and
industry through the development of human capital and through research; acting as a
magnet to attract people, industries, and funding; and helping to improve the quality
of life in the state.
He noted that the Michigan Mandate to build a more multicultural environment
at the University had resulted in the hiring of 75 new faculty of color and an increase
of 25.6% in minority enrollment over the past two years. He noted that the majority
of the incremental funding for salaries, financial aid, and program development
necessary to achieve these gains have, for the most part, been borne directly by the
University through internal reallocation.
Provost Vest pointed out that there is intense competition among many of the
states for the human and physical resources (students, faculty, federally sponsored


-65 -



October Meeting, 1989


research funding) necessary to maintain a world class research university. Therefore,
he stressed that "if the University of Michigan is to continue to be a world class
university and to play a vital role in the future well-being of the state of Michigan, the
governor and the legislature must recognize this competitive environment and
strengthen their support for the University's programs and facilities."
For the 1990-91 fiscal year, the University's planned new expenditures have
been divided into minimum needs of $37.2 million, restoration and new initiatives of
$6.0 million, and other critical needs of $10 million, for a total increase of $53.2
million. Of that amount, $6 million will come from internal reallocation. Thus, the
University is requesting a net increase of $47.2 million (8.8%) over the 1989-90
appropriation. (Details of specific planned new expenditures in each category are
contained in the Regents' Communication.)
To meet its minimum needs increment of $37.2 million, the University is
proposing that the $20.2 million necessary for continuing operations and new building
operating costs be funded by state appropriations,leaving $14.3 million to be funded by
a tuition increase and $2.7 to be derived from other revenue sources.
Provost Vest explained that the University expects the rate of inflation to be 5%
for the coming year and that there will be an increase in state revenues of 6.5%. The
University's plan calls for the state to return to its past practice of fully funding new
space operating costs, as well as increasing its commitment to higher education by
3.5% over the anticipated increase in inflation. This would yield an 8.5% increase in
state appropriations, which would necessitate a 6.5% tuition increase to meet
minimum needs.
Provost Vest described several of the critical capital needs that the University
continues to face in addition to the needs described in the budget request. These
include renovation of the East Engineering Building for the mathematics and
psychology departments, construction of an Integrated Technology Instruction Center
for North Campus, a Randall Laboratory addition for the Physics Department, and
renovation of the C.C. Little Building for the Department of Geology and the College
of Pharmacy. He noted that since 1985, the state appears to have shifted its funding
priorities from higher education to other areas, and called on the state to renew its
commitment to higher education consistent with its past traditions.
Regent Baker commented that he was concerned with cost reduction, and said
that he would find it difficult to support a tuition increase unless the University made
a major effort at reducing its operating costs.
Provost Vest responded that he and Vice President Womack were very sensitive
to areas in which they can do a more effective job of managing costs. He noted that
acquisition of an improved management information system will be a crucial step in
that process.
Regent Power said that he shared Regent Baker's concern about the budget
request and the University's capacity to manage costs. The risk that higher education
institutions face, he continued, is that they are becoming increasingly regarded as cost
plus institutions. That situation could lead to an erosion of the continuing legitimacy
of the University's claim to public resources.


-66 -



October Meeting, 1989


President Duderstadt stated that he agreed, but also felt that it is essential that
citizens make the investment necessary for the University to serve our society, help
secure our quality of life, and maintain our security. Although he agreed that there
are steps that higher education can take to improve its cost effectiveness, he
emphasized that there is a certain amount of cost associated with quality. He also
repeated his assertion that the cost of higher education as a portion of national or
family income has not significantly increased since the second world war.
Regent Roach observed that the University has been operating in an austere
funding environment during his entire fifteen-year tenure on the Board.
1990-91 State Budget Request, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Wilson noted that the UM-Dearborn has not been receiving funding
increases on a level compatible with the increase in its student population. She noted
that the Dearborn campus has achieved its goal of a 1% internal reallocation of the
total budget; this will be earmarked for increases in compensation beginning in
January. Chancellor Wilson also pointed out that four task forces have been
appointed at the Dearborn campus to review the base budget, and announced a
proposed organizational change that is intended to facilitate fundraising efforts.
The UM-Dearborn 1990-91 budget proposal calls for a total increase of
$3,059,000 ($1,964,000 for salary and staff benefits; $240,000 for non-salary
improvement; and $855,000 for new space operating costs, replacement of obsolete
laboratory equipment, and new faculty lines in critical areas). UM-Dearborn expects
to fund $1,275,000 of that amount from a combination of internal reallocation and a
tuition increase. The incremental state appropriation request, therefore, amounts to
$1,784,000, or 8.5% above the 1989-90 appropriation.
Regent Roach noted that the Dearborn request is consistent with that of the
Ann Arbor campus: an increase of 8.5% plus new space operating costs.
1990-91 State Budget Request, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones welcomed the Regents to the Flint campus, and noted that this
was the 34th year of the University of Michigan's presence in Flint. He emphasized
that the community is very supportive of the University's presence in Flint, and
pointed out its important role as a regional campus. Equally important, the location
of the campus in downtown Flint has enhanced the physical attractiveness of the city.
Chancellor Jones pointed out that enrollment on the Flint campus has increased
by 62% in the past ten years, which is the highest growth rate of any public university
in the state. Pressures to increase enrollment have led to an over-reliance on
part-time faculty; there have also been many requests by local business and industry
for assistance in the areas of economic development, research, technical assistance,
and training.
He displayed charts indicating that the proportion of general fund revenue from
state appropriation has decreased from 76% in 1978-79 to 57% in 1989-90, with a
corresponding increase in the proportion derived from tuition. He also noted that the
amount of state appropriations per fiscal year equated student at UM-Flint is the third
lowest of all state institutions. Chancellor Jones pointed out that 4.16% of the budget


-67 -



October Meeting, 1989


at UM-Flint is in the category of "mandatory transfer", or debt service, which means
that it cannot be used for other purposes.
The UM-Flint's incremental 1990-91 budget request of $2,633,500 represents a
9.9% increase over its 1989-90 General Fund budget. The 1990-91 increment includes
$1,605,000 for the salary program, $550,000 for non-salary expenses, $88,500 for
facilities openings, $340,000 for program enhancements, and $50,000 for the Science
Building equipment maintenance. The budget is based on the assumption that the
state appropriation will increase by 8.5% over the 1989-90 figure and will restore
funding for new facility operating costs. The remainder will be provided from
increases in tuition and fees.
Following further discussion about the kinds of research, training, and technical
assistance requests being made of the Flint campus by local business and industry,
Regent Power moved to approve the 1990-91 state budget requests for all three
campuses. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Integrated Technology Instruction Center
Vice President Womack introduced University Planner Fred Mayer to present
the proposed schematic design plans for the Integrated Technology Instruction Center
(ITIC). The ITIC is intended to integrate the functions of a library, computing facility,
and interdisciplinary activities into one building to serve the North Campus area.
Mr. Mayer displayed schematic drawings and an architectural model of the
facility and described all of its elements. In response to a question from Regent
Power, he stated that a full basement had not been considered programmatically
necessary, but that it could be included in the bid.
Regent Baker moved that the Regents approve the schematic design and
authorize its submission to the state of Michigan for funding. Regent Roach seconded
the motion. College of Engineering Associate Dean Lynn Conway, who was present at
the meeting, noted that planning for the facility had been a collaborative effort among
representatives of the Schools of Music, Art and Architecture, College of Engineering,
University Library, and Computing Center, and that all parties were very pleased at
the outcome.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Aerospace Engineering Facility
University Planner Fred Mayer described the programmatic requirements for
this facility and noted that construction will be completed in two phases. He pointed
out all of the elements in a schematic drawing and an architectural model. It was
noted that the College of Engineering has identified $10,700,000 from gifts, pledges,
and other sources and expects to have $12 million for Phase I by the time construction
begins. Phase II will be undertaken as funding becomes available.
Regent Smith moved that the Regents approve the design concept, authorize
completion of plans, and appoint Smith, Hinchman & Grylis, Inc. as architect. Regent
Brown seconded the motion. Following further discussion of specific details of the


-68 -



October Meeting, 1989


project, the motion was approved unanimously.
Naming of Department of Aerospace Engineering Facility in Honor of FranqoisXavier Bagnoud
Provost Vest announced that the University had received a gift of $5 million
from the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association toward the construction of a facility to
house the Department of Aerospace Engineering. The gift is intended as a memorial
to Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, a 1982 aerospace engineering graduate who was killed in
a helicopter accident in 1986.
Following Mr. Bagnoud's death, his mother and father, Countess Albina du
Boisrouvray and Monsieur Bruno Bagnoud, established the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud
Association to support the humanitarian, scientific, cultural, athletic, and educational
causes that were Important to Mr. Bagnoud during his lifetime. Provost Vest said that
the $5 million gift represents the first major gift that the association is making, and
that the association's commitment also includes the funding of four graduate
fellowships of up to five years each. Provost Vest noted that it is the family's intent to
form a long-range, significant relationship with the University of Michigan, and for
that the Umversity is very grateful.
Regent Power moved that the proposed Department of Aerospace Engineering
facility be designated the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Building, and that the library and
atrium of this building also bear the name of Francois-Xavier Bagnoud. Regent
Nielsen seconded the motion. Following further comments, the motion was approved
unanimously.
Ernst & Young Management Report and Responses
Vice President Womack introduced representatives of the firm of Ernst &
Young who had performed the annual external audit: Mssrs. Alphonse Lucarelli, Paul
Geiger, and Ed Nolan.
Following some comments from Mr. Lucarelli, Managing Partner of Ernst &
Young, Mr. Geiger stated that their report was an unqualified one (a "clean opinion"),
and reiterated the statement in the cover letter that the firm "noted no conditions that
we believe to be material weaknesses in internal control." He also noted that the firm
received the fullest cooperation from the staff, and that they had no significant
disagreements with the University's financial administration on any matters in
connection with the closing.
Mr. Geiger noted that the most important commentary in the management
letter had to do with the use of computers for the University's financial controls and in
the University Hospitals.
Mr. Geiger and Mr. Carl Smith, Director of Internal Audits, responded to
questions and comments from the Regents about collection procedures for accounts
receivable. In response to a question from Regent Smith, Mr. Smith noted that the
current practice of referring collection efforts back to the department that generated
the fund balance is being reviewed. Regent Roach commented that the concept of
disaggregating accounts receivable by payor might be a useful concept in the area of
Hospitals accounts receivable.


-69 -



October Meeting, 1989


Regent Baker reminded the auditors that if they had any issues they wished to
discuss with the Regents privately, they were encouraged to do so. Mr. Geiger said
that they would not hesitate to bring any such matters to the attention of the Regents.
There followed a five-minute recess.
Presidential Salary
Regent Brown moved that retroactive to September 1, 1989, President
Duderstadt receive a salary increase of 5.5%. Regent Baker seconded the motion, and
it carried unanimously. Regent Power pointed out that the proposed increase in the
president's salary is identical to the average increase received by faculty for the
current year.
Minutes
Regent Smith moved approval of the minutes of the meeting of September 14
and 15, 1989. Regent Baker seconded the motion. Regent Power moved to amend
the motion by substitution, that the policy of the Regents, effective with the minutes of
the meeting of September 14 and 15, 1989, be that the minutes reflect summaries of
Regents' remarks. Should Regents wish to present written texts of remarks at the
meeting, a note would be included in the summary of the minutes indicating that that
text is on file in the office of the Secretary of the University. With those changes, he
moved that the minutes of the meeting of September 14 and 15 be adopted.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Regent Power said that the
purpose of his amendment was to prevent the minutes of Regents' Meetings from
being used in ways that might inaccurately reflect the texture and context of those
meetings. He noted the instance in which Judge e Cohn, in his consideration of the
University's discriminatory harassment policy, cited the verbatim remarks of one
regent and thereby drew a conclusion about the texture and context of the overall
discussion which Regent Power felt was inaccurate.
Secondly, Regent Power said that another purpose of his motion was to avoid
having the Regents' Meeting minutes as cluttered with verbatim texts as the
Congressional Record. He also pointed out that every regent has the right and
obligation as an elected official to say anything he or she wants to say and that this
provision would not preclude Regents from making whatever remarks or distributing
whatever text they wanted to. The amendment "strikes to the form in which the
minutes which recount the proceedings of the meeting are to be set out and
encourages that the remarks of the Regents are to be summarized in order to maintain
the objectives [he has stated]." He emphasized the provision in his amendment that an
explicit note be included in the minutes that the written text of remarks is available in
the office of the Secretary of the University.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, President Duderstadt said that he
had not been aware prior to the meeting that the Regents intended to change their
policy about verbatim comments. Regent Baker noted that he had been advised of
this motion prior to the meeting and had prepared a statement in response.
In his statement, Regent Baker observed that the motion to disallow his
verbatim remarks in the minutes marked "the first time an attempt has been made to


-70 -



October Meeting, 1989


censor the free speech of an elected member of this Board." He noted his
understanding that a single regent had requested that his verbatim remarks not be
included in the minutes. Regent Baker continued that on at least a dozen occasions
during his service as regent he had inserted verbatim remarks into the minutes that
because of their particularly sensitive or controversial subject matter required an exact
transcript to prevent misinterpretation. The topics of these remarks included
academic freedom and the Strategic Defense Initiative, divestment issues, a defense of
President Shapiro and the University's actions on race-related issues in 1987, and in
September, 1989, the University's discriminatory harassment policy.
Regent Baker said that in keeping with his obligation to keep them informed,
voters deserve the opportunity to read in detail his views on specific issues. Regent
Baker questioned whether approval of Regent Power's motion would constitute
unconstitutional restriction of free speech for an elected official, whether restricting
free speech of a regent would have a chilling effect on the free speech of other
members of the University community, and what example would be projected to the
American Civil Liberties Union, the U.S. federal court, and other educational
institutions in the nation "when [the Regents] censor the free speech of a regent?"
Regent Brown seconded Regent Power's motion.
Regent Smith stated that she agreed with Regent Baker's arguments in defense
of allowing verbatim remarks to appear in the minutes. She said that she didn't think
the Board had the authority to prevent what goes into the minutes, that she didn't
think that the Board should dictate to other people what they can and cannot do, and
that she would not support the amendment. She noted that there is no language in the
Regents' Bylaws prohibiting the incorporation of verbatim statements in the minutes.
Regent Brown remarked that the amendment is intended strictly as an internal
record-keeping, secretarial, procedural motion, with no attempt to limit free speech in
whatever form it should occur, and no censorship. He noted the long-standing
practice of the board secretary of summarizing remarks and sending them to the
Regents prior to their being officially adopted. This gives the Regents an opportunity
to review the summaries of their remarks and to have them corrected if necessary to
accurately reflect their statements.
Regent Brown said that the difficulty has arisen because the remarks of seven
other regents are summarized in the minutes, while those of one regent are set forth
for several pages because they had been prepared in advance in writing. This led to
the situation that occurred in court in which the remarks of one regent were used at
length but those of the other regents could not be used because they were not
verbatim. This leaves an improper perspective on the meeting to the reader of the
minutes.
Regent Brown concluded that this action "is not in any way, shape, or form a
question of free speech or censorship..., and that no one on this board would ever
intend to do such a thing." The intent is to have the record of the Regents' Meetings
made in summary fashion as they had always been until prepared remarks were
introduced about ten years ago.
Regent Roach concurred with Regent Brown that the motion is not a question
of free speech; it is only a question of what the minutes should say. He pointed out


-71 -



October Meeting, 1989


that Judge Cohn's remarks from the bench point to the necessity for the present
motion; Judge Cohn did not properly perceive what had transpired at that Regents'
Meeting from his comments about what he drew from a review of the minutes of the
meeting. Thus, the inclusion of a protracted verbatim quotation in the minutes did not
render a true record of the meeting, but a false one.
Regent Baker commented that the minutes make a significant and important
historical contribution to the University and to the arguments that go on at the time.
He reiterated that "Regents should have the right to express their opinions in detail in
the printed text in the minutes themselves." Regent Baker said that he felt the other
regents' arguments represent an attempt to hide the record, in that they imply that
Judge Cohn would have decided otherwise had the arguments he (Regent Baker)
presented not been in the record. Regent Baker continued that the University does
not and ought not have anything to hide, and that it would be wrong for the Regents to
change this practice. He asked that the record show "that it is wrong, it is an
infringement of speech, and it is a device to hide the truth."
Regent Nielsen pointed out that all of the meetings are tape recorded, and that
verbatim transcripts can be provided for anyone upon request. He said that minutes
are intended to be summaries, not verbatim transcripts. Regent Smith reiterated that
Regent Baker has the right, as an elected official, to have his remarks incorporated
into the minutes.
Regent Varner said verbatim statements would still be recorded in summary
fashion in the minutes and referenced in the record. She said that this issue has been
of long-standing concern to her, because the presence of verbatim written statements
from one regent puts pressure on the other regents to also prepare verbatim
statements for insertion to counter the impression that they had no interest in the
issue. Regent Varner concluded that if she thought the motion was intended to
restrict speech in any fashion, she would not support it.
Regent Power commented that his motion had been prompted by Judge Cohn's
action in the case involving the discriminatory harassment policy. He had conveyed
his concern about the verbatim remarks to staff following the last meeting, and he
apologized to Regent Baker and to staff if that had been construed as an instruction.
Regent Brown said that the issue is whether extemporaneous remarks are
different than those made by prepared, written statement; the question is whether
remarks written in advance are entitled to be recorded verbatim in the records of the
Regents' Meetings, whereas remarks made extemporaneously are not. There is no
reason, he continued, that written remarks should have a higher status than remarks
not prepared in advance. The alternative would be to have everyone's comments be
included verbatim, and he didn't feel that the additional expense this option would
entail would be justified. Regent Brown said that the legitimate interests of all
members of the Board are fully met by having all remarks summarized, and that the
question bears no relationship to the issue of restriction of free speech.
Regent Smith said that she did not think the Regents have the constitutional
right as elected officials to restrict the right of another elected official to have items
placed in the minutes.
In response to Regent Brown's assertion that printing verbatim remarks


-72 -



October Meeting, 1989


generates an additional expense for taxpayers, Regent Baker noted that the additional
cost of publishing verbatim comments as opposed to summaries is insignificant. He
estimated that it would take less than half a day to type all of the prepared remarks
he'd made during his 17 years on the board. He added that any restriction of speech
goes against the idea of the university and against the idea of a democratic election,
and that he did not feel that elected officials should be restricted in pursuing the
responsibilities of their office. Regent Baker also pointed out that he has referred to
his published verbatim comments on many occasions when he has subsequently been
misquoted or taken out of context on controversial issues. He reiterated his belief that
the remarks should be a part of the public record in the minutes so that a person could
easily review them by reading the minutes.
Regent Roach moved to call the question of Regent Power's amendment that
the minutes reflect summaries of Regents remarks with an explicit statement in the
minutes that copies of prepared statements are available in the office of the Secretary
of the University. Regent Power seconded that motion. The vote to call the question
was approved, with Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner in favor and
Regents Smith and Baker opposed. The vote was then taken on Regent Power's
amendment, which carried, and on the amended motion to approve the minutes, which
also carried. On both of the latter two motions, Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, and Varner voted in favor and Regents Smith and Baker were opposed.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, as well as the quarterly
Regents' Report on Non-Competitive Purchases over $2,000 from Single Sources from
July 1 through September 30, 1989.
Vice President Womack also reported on the performance of the University's
portfolio relative to recent fluctuations in the stock market. He noted that the decline
in the University's endowment portfolio was one-half that of the market, and that this
indicated that the defensive mechanisms that have been instituted, including asset
diversification, active equity management, and tactical asset allocation, all worked to
dampen the volatility and protect the value of the portfolio.
Following further comments about the investment program, Vice President
Kelly submitted Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored
Projects and Projects Established, Research and Other Academic Activities,
September 1 to September 30, 1989.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the reports.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics
indicated: Marilyn Freeman, student at UM-Flint, about the availability of women's
services on campus; Nick Maverick, student and chair of Michigan Student Assembly's
student rights committee, about the code of non-academic conduct; Matthew Weber,
student and member of Michigan Student Assembly's external relations committee,
about the external relations committee; and Doug Keller, chair of the UM-Dearborn


-73 -



October Meeting, 1989


Alumni Society, about the UM-Dearborn athletic program.
Following Public Comments, the meeting continued; Regent Smith was absent
for the remainder of the meeting.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Summary Report, Detail Reports, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and above for September, 1989. The following gifts were
accepted with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering and in the School of Public Health  6,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy and the Institute
of Gerontology                                                              83,668
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Coliege of Literature, Science, and the Arts             5,500
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,448
American Heart Association Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                          24,000
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School                                          16,000
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           8,750
Amoco Foundation, Inc. Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     12,611
Amoco Oil Company, Chicago, Illinois
for Schofarshlps for Minorities and Females in the College of Engineering    5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                          14,417
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          20,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the College of Engineering                                   23,550
Lynde & Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration, and in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           71,503
John P. Brady Estate
for support of the Medical School                                           10,088
Briarwood Associates, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Benefit Golf Classic                  5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           7,499
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
first payment on a pledge of $30,000 for the Office of the Study of Automotive
Transportation, in the institute of Science and Technology                  10,000
Ruth V. Cleland, Irvington, Virginia
for the Ruth V. ClelandFund, a Donor Pooled Income Contribution for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Architecture and Urban Planning         100,000
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration           6,500
Howard J. Cooper, Jr. Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000
George R. Corey, Millbrae, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies               20,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA. Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          24,426
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                          13,741


-74 -



October Meeting, 1989


Russell N. DeJong, Jr., Belgrade, Maine
for the Russell N. DeJong, Sr. Professorship in the Medical School           10,000
Edwin L. Demuth Estate
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                               10,000
Helen J. Dennison Trust
for the President's Fund                                                     15,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
plede payment for minority scholarships in the College of Engineering        10,000
George. Deu ble Foundation North Canton, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Funds in the Schools of Business Administration and Law  10,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Exxon Grants and other projects in the Schools of Business Administration
and Law, and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                              45,385
Mrs. Clinton E. Farnsworth, Syracuse, New York
for the support of the School of Natural Resources                            5,000
Sophia Fenigstein Estate
for the Bernard Sophie and Alexander Fenigstein Scholarship in the Medical School  9,494
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social
Research                                                                     94,333
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                    25,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering, and in the Institute of Science and
Technology                                                                  315,000
General Dynamics Land Systems, Warren
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
General Electric Company, Schenectady, New York
for research in the College of Engineering                                   20,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for research and scholarships in the College of Engineering                  60,000
Gibbs Brothers Foundation New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering              5,000
William A. Gracie, Jr., Ann Arbor
200 shares of CNA Financial Corporation common stock5 for the William A. Gracie,
Jr. Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Contribution for the ultimate benefit of the
Medical School                                                               17,250
Robert C. Graham Trust Harbor Springs
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Guardian Industries Corporation Northville
pledge payment on behalf of William Davidson for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      20,000
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             35,000
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School  20,000
Francis E. Heyat, Miami Oklahoma
pledge payment for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics  8,000
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      30,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                                57,966
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            28,683
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                              50,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           40,470
Jupiter Hills Village Jupiter Florida
payment on behalf of Thomas Matevia for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario
for research in the Medical School                                           20,250
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           16,825


-75 -



October Meeting, 1989


W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the School of Public Health; and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                    477,816
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for the Samuel H. Kress Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    14,000
Patricia Piatt Lawson Ann Arbor
170 shares of Household International, Inc. common stock; for the Patricia Piatt
Lawson Fund, a Donor Pooled Incomes Contribution for the ultimate benefit of
the Michigan League                                                         10,009
Lilly Endowment Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Lilly Endowment Pharmacy Fellowships, in the College of Pharmacy   500,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and the Institute of Science and Technology                                  5,000
Frederick W., Jr. and Carol DeBruin Lyons, Mission Hills, Kansas
for support of the College of Pharmacy, in honor of Frederick W. Lyons, Sr. on his
85th Birthday                                                               15,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Art and
Business Administration, the Colleges of Architecture and Urban Planning,
Engineering, and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the University
Musical Society                                                             32,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          59,000
F. James McDonald, Bloomfield Hills
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                   16,500
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New,  New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 13,250
Monolithic Sensors, Inc., Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering                                  10,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for research in the HoraceH-. Rackham School of Graduate Studies            10,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint                            25,000
D. Michael Murphy, Grand Rapids
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                          35,000
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted capital projects in the School of Business
Administration                                                              25,000
NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering                                  10,000
Helen W. Rader Estate
for support of the College of Engineering                                    5,000
Research Fund of the American Otological Society, Inc., Bronx, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Retirement Research Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work                                   21,580
RGK Foundation, Austin, Texas
for research in the School of Business Administration                        7,500
Anthony P. Ridder, Miami, Florida
2,500 shares of Informix Corporation common stock; first payment on a pledge of
$100,000 for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics     21,875
Mr. and Mrs. Don W. Robinson, Ann Arbor
199 shares of various corporate common stocks; pledge payment for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                              8,128
Dr. and Mrs. Rodney J. Rogers, Vicksburg
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                          5,000
Aaron R. Ross, Detroit
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Sage Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Education                                      5,000


-76 -



October Meeting, 1989


Santa Fe Southern Pacific Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert E. and Carolyn B. Dineen Scholarship in the Law School        5,000
John M. Sheldon Testamentary Trust Ann Arbor
for support of the Medical School                                           42,628
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
pledge payment for capital projects in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                       70,336
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            16,500
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          24,001
Spencer Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                          14,970
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Humanities Institute, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           20,000
Louise Cooley Sutherland, Lake Orion
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Taubman Charitable Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Program in American Institutions, College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                       100,000
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for the Tecumseh Products Fund in the College of Engineering                 5,400
Tennessee Eastman Company, Kingsport, Tennessee
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology       5,000
Therex Corporation, Walpole, Massachusetts
for support of the Medical School                                            5,000
Fern J. Thurston Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                     224,453
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
pledge payment for the Toyota Visiting Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                      250,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Unisys Minority Scholarship Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                               5,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group
for alumnae scholarships in the Alumni Association                          10,000
University of Michigan Alumni Association of Minnesota, Minneapolis
for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             5,000
University of Michigan Club of Toledo, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,500
University of Michigan Club of Washington D.C.
for the Washington, D.C., Alumni Club Scholarship                            6,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Medical Scholarship in the Medical School  25,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the School of Music                                                     10,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation Morris Plains, New Jersey
for support of the College of Pharmacy, and the University Musical Society  15,000
Samuel Weiss, Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
Pled~ge payment for the Whirlpool Engineering Research Fund in the College of
En neering                                                                  20,000
Jerome B. Wiesner, Cambridge Massachusetts
pledge payment for capital projects in the College of Engineering           25,000
Woodworth-Upjonm Foundation Kalamazoo
pledge payment on behaff of Nancy Upjohn Woodworth, for unrestricted support
of the University of Michigan                                               10,000
World Health Organization Zurich, Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     52,500
Wyeth Ayerst Division, American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                           7,500
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey
for the Shady Trails Camp, School of Education                              16,000


-77 -



October Meeting, 1989


The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
food processing equipment, with attachments; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Katherine Menke Scott, Ann Arbor
photographic chemicals and supplies; for the Department of Photography in the School of Art
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989
Erik Fredricksen, M.FA., Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
W. Charles Kerfoot, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, September 1, 1989
David B. Moody, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, November 1, 1989
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Richard E. Charlick, Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to active status, for a ninemonth period
John C. Dann, Director of the William L. Clements Library of American History and Lecturer in History,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Director of the William L. Clements
Library of American History, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989
Nathalie A. Drews, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Assistant Dean of Student
Services, School of Social Work, reappointed Assistant Dean of Student Services, School of Social
Work, for a one-and-one-half-year term, January 1, 1989
William J. Horvath, Professor Emeritus of Health Systems, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period, October 1, 1989
William M. Mikkelsen, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a oneyearperiod, July 1, 1989
Peter 0. Sterner, Professor of Economics and Professor of Law, appointed Dean Emeritus of the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts
Diane K. Vinokur Assistant bean for Research and Development and Assistant Research Scientist,
School of Social Work, reappointed Assistant Dean for Research and Development, School of
Social Work, for a two-and-one-half-year term, January 1, 1989
Zelma H. Weisfeld, Professor Emeritus of Theatre and Drama, reappointed to active status at UM-Flint,
Fall term, 1989
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective October 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Giles G. Bole, Jr., from Professor of Internal Medicine, Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, and Senior
Associate Dean, Medical School, to Professor of Internal Medicine, Associate Dean for Clinical
Affairs and Executive Associate Dean, Medical School, December 1, 1989
Kenneth J. DeWoskin, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, appointed Professor of Business Administration, School ofB13usiness
Administration, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989
William E. Kotowicz, Professor of Dentistry, appointed Senior Associate Dean of the School of Dentistry,
October 9, 1989
John P. Langmore, Associate Professor of Biological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, Associate Research Biophysicist, Institute of Science and Technology, appointed Chair of the
Biophysics Research Division, Institute of Science and Technology, through August 31, 1992


-78 -



October Meeting, 1989


Joseph P. Marino, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
appointed Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, for a five-year
term, November 1, 1989
John C. Marshall, Professor of Internal Medicine, appointed Interim Chair of the Department of Internal
Medicine
Robert B. Zajonc, from Interim Director of the Institute for Social Research, Charles Horton Cooley
Distinguished University Professor of Social Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Director and Research Scientist, Research Center for Group Dynamics Institute for Social
Research, to Director of the Institute for Social Research, Char[es Horton Coley Distinguished
University Professor of Social Sciences College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Research
Scientist, Research Center for Group Iynamics, Institute for Social Research, November 1, 1989
The following committee appointments were approved:
Institute of Gerontolonf Executive Committee
Sid Gilman, forthe remainder of the term ending June 30, 1992, vice William N. Kelley, resigned
Michigan League Board of Governors
Phylis A. Valentine, for the remainder of the term ending April 30, 1991, vice John B. Ludlow, resigned
University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
John C. Marshall, for a ur-year eaterm, effective immediately through June 30, 1993, vice William N.
Kelley, resigned
Universitv of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Lawrence B. Mohr, for the remainder of the term ending August 31, 1990, vice William R. Anderson,
resigned
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Duncan J. Kretovich, for the remainder of the term ending August 31, 1991, vice Hossein Shalchi, resigned
William   Clay Ford Professorship of Product Manufacturing. The Regents
approved the establishment of the William        Clay Ford Professorship of Product
Manufacturing.
Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship of Law. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt
Research Professorship of Law.
Samuel T. Dana Associate Professor of Outdoor Recreation. The Regents
approved the appointment of Patrick C. West as the Samuel T. Dana Associate
Professor of Outdoor Recreation, effective September 1, 1989.
Director of Museum      of Art. The Regents approved the apapointment of
William J. Hennessey as Director of the Museum of Art for a five-year term, effective
January 1, 1990.
Chief of Clinical Affairs. The Regents approved the appointment of Robert P.
Kelch, M.D. as Chief of Clinical Affairs at the University of Michigan Hospitals. The
appointment was approved for a three-year term beginning July 1, 1989.
Norman Freehling Visiting Professor. The Regents approved the appointment
of Alvin Kernan as the Norman Freehling Visiting Professor for the period of March
12 through April 5, 1990.
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement. The Regents approved the
establishment of the position of Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.


-79 -



October Meeting, 1989


Personnel Reports
Regent Baker commented on a Detroit News article that reported that the
University of Michigan had been dropped from a listing of the nation's "choosiest"
colleges. He understood the criteria for inclusion on this list to be that a college
accepts fewer than half of its applicants and that the freshman class must have an
average score of at least 1200 on the SAT. Provost Vest responded that because of
decreases in the number of applicants, the criterion of percent of applicants rejected
was the probable reason for the University's being dropped; he was certain it was not a
function of SAT scores. He said that he would follow up and provide the information
on which that report was based.
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Rodney D. Parker, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School of Art
Duane M. Palyka, M.FA., Assistant Professor of Art
School of Dentistry
Khalid M. Ahmed, D.D.S., M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
Armand G. del Rosario, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Patricia L. Fuhst-Wylie D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Gary H. Hildebrandt, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Brian J. Jacobson, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Hian S. Kwa, Tandarts, Lecturer in Dentistry
Thomas D. Pappert, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Roger R. Ray,-D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Paul F. Showers, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Margaret E. Stone, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
School of Education
J. Gary Knowles, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
College of Engineering
ark A. Burns, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, January 1, 1990
Avery H. Demond, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering
Iris D. Tommelein, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering
Peter D. Washabaugh, M.S., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Rachid Bouamrane Ph.D., Lecturer in Physics
Myron K. Campbell Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Evan H. Cohen, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Hans J. Dobele, M.FA. Lecturer in Film and Video Studies
Hannelore K. Dobele-Kober, M.FA., Lecturer in Film and Video Studies
Jerome D. Dowis Ed.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Stuart B. Field, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Craig R. Frisch, MA., Lecturer in Italian
Kai Hauser, Ph.D., Assistant Professor Mathematics
Juan F. Larrea, BA. Lecturer in Spanish
David J. Mattingly Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Classical Archaeology
Greg E. Shaffer, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Yu Xie, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology


-80 -



October Meeting, 1989


Medical School
David A. August, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery
Mark A. Demitrack, M.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
David J. Doukas, M.D.Assistant Professor of Famify Practice
Ann E. Eyler, M.D. Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice
John P. Farnen, M.b., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Susan C. Guba, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Brian L. Largent Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biolog
Barbara D. Reed, M.D., Assistant Professor of Family Practice, July 241989
Julie A. Stapleton, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1, 1989
Richard W.Weber, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Philip Zazove, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice, September 15, 1989
School of Natural Resources
Ivette Perfecto, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources
School of Nursing
Barbara J. Guthrie, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
Alan Argento Ph.., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engneermg
Chung-Yuh Liu, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 5, 1989
Medical School
Joseph Holoshitz, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Education
David D. Starks, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure, to Adjunct Associate Professor of Dentistry and Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure
Medical School
Linda M. Lee, from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1989
Richard H. Turnage, from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine
UM-Flint School of Health Science
Peter V. Loubert, from Instructor in Kinesiology to Assistant Professor of Physical Therapy
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Education
Curtis Van Voorhees, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - December 31,
1990
Collee of En neering
Walter R. Debler, Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
James F. Driscoll, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1
-May 31, 1990
Aaron Finerman, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, retirement
furlough, January 1 - December 31, 1989
Bruce H. Karnopp, Assistant Dean and Associate Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, sabbatical
leave September 1 - December 31, 1989
Antoine E. 4aaman, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Donald J. Patterson, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1990
William J. Williams, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990


-81 -



October Meeting, 1989


Kensall D. Wise, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1990
Richard D. Woods, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard D. Alexander Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University Professor of Evolutionary Biology
and Curator of Insects, Museum of Zoology, sabbatical leave, July 1 - December 31, 1989
Charles L. Glaser Assistant Professor of Political Science, leave without salary, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
Luis 0. Gomez, Charles 0. Hucker Professor of Buddhist Studies and Chair of the Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Raymond Grew, Professor of History with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Luisa L. Grigera, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Guy R. Mermier, Professor of French, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 1989 - May 31, 1990
John Mersereau, Jr., Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
Marcel N.Muller, Professor of French, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 - December 31, 1989,
and sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1990
Peter A. Railton, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Steven J. Rosenstone, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Rebecca J. Scott, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Walter M. Spink, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Harold R. Stevenson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990
James C. Turner Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Warren C. Whatley Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -
December 1, 1989
J. Frank Yates, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1990
Medical School
Ole Baadsgaard, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, leave without salary, August 30, 1989 - August 29,
Inese Z. Beitins, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
February 1 - July 31, 1990
Margaret M. Burke, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, extended sick leave, August 5 - 31, 1989, and
personal leave, September 18, 1989 - September 14 1990
Samir M. Hanash, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
October 1, 1989 - March 31, 1990
Paul R. Knight, Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1989 - April 30,
Martha L. Ludwig, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
February28, 1990
Timothy J. Watkins, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, extended sick leave, August 21 -
September 24,1989
School of Nursing
Shake Ketepian, Associate Dean for Graduate Studies and Professor of Nursing, with tenure, extended
sick leave, August 24 - September 17, 1989
Division of Physical Education
Phyllis S. Weikart, Associate Professor of Sports Management and Communication, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, f989 - May 31, 1993
School of Public Health
Joel A. Grinker Professor of Nutrition, with tenure, and Professor of Nutrition, without tenure, Medical
School, leave without salary, September 1 - October 31, 1989
School of Social Work
Sheila C. Feld, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
George M. Kurajian, Frofessor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -
August 31, 1990


-82 -



October Meeting, 1989


David H. O'Keeffe Chair and Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1940
William J. Meyer, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1990
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Law School
Christina L. B. Whitman, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
(previously reported as September 1 - December 31, 1989)
CANCELLATIONS TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Samuel H. Barnes Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbaticalleave January 1 - May 31, 1990
John R. Chamberfin, Professor of Political Science and Public Poicy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective August 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
John B. Ludlow, Lecturer in Dentistry, October 31, 1989
Herbert D. Millard, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, October 31, 1989
Peter M. Spalding, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, August 11, 1989
College of Enineering
Richard A. Vol, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, May 31, 1989
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Jennifer A. Kitchell, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Associate Curator,
Museum of Paleontology
Allen L. Shields, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, September 16, 1989
Medical School
David F. Keren, Professor of Pathology, with tenure
John T. Marquez, Lecturer in Family Practice
John M. Watkins-Pitchford, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, September 29, 1989
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
J. Albert Bailey, Lecturer in History, April 30, 1989
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoirs:
William M. Mikkelsen, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 1989, following a notable career as a meticulous internist,
rheumatologist, and leader in health care maintenance.
A native of Minnesota, Dr. Mikkelsen graduated from the University of
Michigan Medical School in 1949. In 1954, he joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in internal medicine and as a member of the Rackham
Arthritis Research Unit. He was appointed assistant professor in 1957, associate
professor in 1961, and professor in 1969, and continued his association with the
Rackham Arthritis Research Unit. For over 20 years, Dr. Mikkelsen has also served
as director of the Periodic Health Appraisal Unit.


-83 -



October Meeting, 1989


Dr. Mikkelsen has enjoyed a lengthy association with the American Rheumatoid
Association's prestigious Rheumatism Reviews, which he edited from 1970-81. He has
been a member of the American Public Health Association's Subcommittee on
Periodic Health Appraisal since 1961.
Dr. Mikkelsen has led many investigations in clinical medicine, leading to
numerous peer-reviewed publications that are noteworthy for their clarity. His
participation in the Tecumseh, Michigan, population studies produced a series of
landmark publications concerned with the epidemiology of rheumatoid arthritis and
gout. He has participated extensively in cooperative studies dealing with diagnostic
and classification criteria of osteoarthritis and therapeutic evaluations in rheumatoid
arthritis and gout. With associates from other disciplines, he has authored important
publications dealing with disease risk factors and audio-visual educational materials.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming William M. Mikkelsen Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
H. Dean Millard, D.D.S., professor of dentistry and former chair of the
Department of Oral Diagnosis and Radiology, will retire from active faculty status on
October 31, 1989.
Dr. Millard earned his D.D.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of Michigan
in 1952 and 1956, respectively. He joined the faculty as an instructor in 1952. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1956, associate professor in 1960, and professor in
1964. From 1968-87, he served as chair of the Department of Oral Diagnosis and
Radiology.
Dr. Millard has served as an officer of a number of professional societies and as
editor of the Journal of the Michigan Dental Association. A diplomate of the American
Board of Oral Medicine, Dr. Millard plans to continue to examine on the American
Board of Oral Medicine for three more years. In 1968, he served aboard the S.S.
HOPE in Ceylon; he later served as a consultant in Project HOPE's dental program in
Egypt and Ethiopia. In the mid 1970s, he was a member of that project's dental
committee. He has been a consultant to Ann Arbor's Veterans Administration
Hospital since 1968, a member of NIH's Clinical Cancer Education Committee, and of
the University of Michigan's Diabetes Education Council.
In 1963, Dr. Millard helped to launch the Organization of Teachers of Oral
Diagnosis (OTOD), introduced its constitution and bylaws, and served as its first
president. Now in its 27th year, the international organization has nearly 200
members.
Dr. Millard has also found time to write articles and editorials, and to
collaborate on sections in texts. He co-authored six editions of a textbook on oral
diagnosis, and has done extensive work on oral diagnosis procedures, stomatitis, and
bacterial endocarditis.
In collaboration with Professor David Mason, dean of the Glasgow dental
school, Dr. Millard organized the 1988 World Workshop on Oral Medicine. He was
also recently appointed editor of the oral medicine section of the Oral
Surgery/Medicine/Pathology Journal, and reappointed for a three-year term to the
American Heart Association's Committee on Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis and
Kawasaki Disease.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming H. Dean Millard Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Memorials
Provost Vest noted the death of one faculty member. Regent Varner moved,


-84 -



October Meeting, 1989


Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the following
memorial:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on September 16, 1989, of Allen L. Shields, professor of mathematics in the
Department of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. He died at
his home after losing his courageous battle with cancer.
Professor Shields was born on May 7, 1927, in New York City. Following
service in the U.S. Army from 1945-46, he earned his bachelor's degree from City
College of New York in 1949 and his Ph.D. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1952. Before he came to the University of Michigan, Professor Shields
taught at Tulane University from 1952-56.
Professor Shields was an immensely warm and caring person who took his
"pastoral duties" to faculty and students very seriously. Shields was a mathematical
"universalist". He had a vast store of knowledge and an amazing eagerness to discuss
mathematics in any circumstances. He had a contagious enthusiasm and was a
constant source of inspiration to students, faculty, and colleagues throughout the
world. He had collaborated with 44 different authors.
Shields directed 26 Ph.D. dissertations in his 33-year career at the University of
Michigan, more than any other faculty member in the history of the Department of
Mathematics. Shields worked primarily in the fields of measure theory, analytic
functions, general functional analysis, and operator theory. He was the author of a
column on mathematical history in The Mathematical Intelligencer and published more
than 90 articles in mathematical journals during his career.
In 1979, Professor Shields received the University's Distinguished Faculty
Achievement Award. He served as department chair from 1975-77 and as acting chair
from 1980-81. He was a member of the American Mathematical Society, the
Mathematical Association of America, and Phi Beta Kappa.
Allen will always be remembered for his unselfishness and for his dedication to
mathematics, the department and the University. As we mourn the loss of this great
scholar and teacher, our condolences go to his wife, Smilka Zdravkovska, his children,
Katherine, Thomas, and Jean, his step-children, Howard, Bojana, and Andrej, and his
two grandchildren.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
approved amendments to previously approved degree lists. The Regents also
approved the final degree list from the August, 1989 Commencement.
Henry Russel Lecturer
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Roach seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved the nomination of Frederick W. Gehring, T.H. Hildebrandt Distinguished
University Professor of Mathematics, as Henry Russel Lecturer for 1990.
Financial Report for the University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1989
The Regents received the summary version of the Financial Report for the year
ended June 30, 1989.


-85 -



October Meeting, 1989


Schedule of Investments
The Regents received the University of Michigan's Schedule of Investments for
June 30, 1989.
June 30, 1989 Inventories of the Common Fund for South Africa Free Equity
Investments and the Global Bond Fund
The Regents received the June 30, 1989 inventories of the Common Fund for
South Africa Free Equity Investments and the Common Fund Global Bond Fund. In
response to a question from Regent Baker, University Investment Officer Norman
Herbert said he would provide the Regents with figures showing the net return of the
South Africa Free Equity Investments.
Business School Growth Fund
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following actions with respect to the Business School
Growth Fund: 1) approved revisions to Articles 3 and 9 of the Terms of the Growth
Fund, as detailed in the Regents Communication; 2) approved proposed operating
policies and guidelines as detailed in the Regents Communication; and 3) approved
the slate of Lawrence J. Goldstein, Dixon R. Doll, and Harold R. Kellman as initial
alumni investment managers.
Crime Prevention
Regent Varner moved, and Regent Roach seconded, that the Regents adopt a
proclamation declaring October as crime prevention month on the University of
Michigan Ann Arbor campus. Regent Baker observed that adoption of such a
proclamation is an unusual action and would set a precedent that would not be in the
University's best interests. The vote was taken and the motion carried, with Regents
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner in favor and Regent Baker opposed.
509 S. Division
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's acquisition of the property at 509 S. Division in
Ann Arbor at a price of $179,500.
Ten Acre Parcel, Chase S. Osborn Preserve, Sugar Island
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Roach seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved acquisition of a ten-acre parcel of vacant land adjacent to the Chase S.
Osborn Preserve on Sugar Island for a fee of $50.00 to the State of Michigan.
University of Michigan Hospitals Medical Procedures Unit
Regent Brown moved approval of the Medical Procedures Unit project and
authorization of receipt of bids and award of construction contracts for both a
structural steel package and a general construction contract package, provided the
contract values are within the budget. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken and the motion passed unanimously.


-86 -



October Meeting, 1989


Renovations: C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, Kresge II Building
The Regents unanimously approved projects for replacement of the fire alarm
system at C.S. Mott Children's Hospital and for renovation of space in the Kresge II
Building for use by the Department of Internal Medicine.
1990-91 Capital Outlay Request, All Three Campuses
Regent Power moved, and Regent Brown seconded, approval of the 1990-91
Capital Outlay Request for all three campuses. Vice President Womack noted that
the state has not provided any support for capital outlay for the past several years. In
response to comments from Regents Roach and Baker, Vice President Womack noted
that it is always important to evaluate whether or not to renovate a facility or replace
it. President Duderstadt observed that the estimated value of public higher education
facilities in Michigan is about $5 billion. This implies that the state should be
investing $100 million to $200 million per year in facilities renovation and
replacement. The fact that this has not occurred means that Universities are now
facing serious problems of infrastructure deterioration, making this a serious issue
before the people of the state.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion passed
unanimously. Vice President Womack indicated that a Utility Project would be
brought to the Regents in November as a supplement to the Capital Outlay Request.
Cystic Fibrosis Gene Discovery Team
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
adopted the following resolution in honor of the University of Michigan Cystic
Fibrosis Gene Discovery Team:
A major scientific milestone has been achieved with the discovery of the
gene that causes cystic fibrosis, a genetic disease that afflicts about 30,000
Americans.
The Regents of the University of Michigan wish to extend their highest
commendation to the team of University researchers who share credit for the
discovery: Professor Francis Collins, Mr. Mitchell Drumm, Mr. Jeoffery Cole,
Professor Michael Iannuzzi, and Dr. Noriko Hidaka.
The task of locating, sequencing and cloning the gene for cystic fibrosis
was long and arduous. This great scientific achievement brings credit to all
those whose wisdom, dedication, and ingenuity made it possible.
Although the battle against cystic fibrosis has not yet been won, the
discovery of the gene responsible for the disease opens exciting new
opportunities to increase the accuracy of diagnosis and to explore the specifics
of action within the human body. Thus it brings us closer to the day when
cystic fibrosis can be effectively treated or even cured. It brings new hope that
the one in 2000 children born each year with this devastating genetic defect
will have a greater chance for a happy life.


-87 -



October Meeting, 1989


In recognition of this research accomplishment of special distinction and
significance, the Regents of the University of Michigan express on this day their
deepest respect, admiration and appreciation.
Membership in EDUCOM for UM-Dearborn
Regent Baker questioned the need for multiple University memberships in
EDUCOM, given the high cost of each membership. Chancellor Wilson pointed out
that the UM-Dearborn is only requesting a separate membership because EDUCOM
itself has changed its policies and now requires branch campuses to have separate
memberships. Following further discussion, the Regents voted unanimously to
approve membership in EDUCOM for UM-Dearborn.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Name Change for Center for Continuing Education of Women
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved changing the name of the Center for Continuing Education of
Women to the Center for the Education of Women.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Transportation,
accommodation, and miscellaneous expenditures for the month of September, 1989
totalled $237.67. The next meeting will take place on November 16 and 17, 1989.
Ric ard L. Kennedy, Secretary


-88 -



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 16, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Brown arrived at 2:30 P.M.
CESF Report
President Duderstadt introduced Professor Roy Penchansky, chair of the
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) for the Ann Arbor campus,
to present the annual CESF report. Professor Penchansky announced that the two
major economic issues of concern to CESF are senior faculty salaries and health care
costs.
Regarding senior faculty salaries, Professor Penchansky noted that compared
with faculty at peer institutions, University of Michigan assistant professors make five
percent less than those at the top peer school, associate professors make 11 percent
less, and professors make 21 percent less. He also pointed out that not only are there
many instances in which associate professors are making more than the mean salary
for professors in a department, but there are four departments in which the median
salary for associate professors is higher that for professors. Other problems are
created when newly hired professors are recruited at salaries that are significantly
above the mean for current professors and when a larger annual increase is given to
some individuals in order to match outside offers. He cautioned that if professors'
salaries are not increased, it could begin to affect the overall quality of the University.
Regent Baker commented that the situation that Professor Penchansky
described relative to faculty salaries is not particular to the University of Michigan,
and he pointed out that the University had made a conscious effort some years ago to
attract young faculty.
In response to a question from Regent Varner, Professor Penchansky said that
there are no data showing whether we are losing senior faculty due to salaries.
Provost Vest said that this has not occurred yet, but that the situation could change in
the future.
Regent Power suggested that time series data be compiled which would show
whether the differentials of 5%, 11%, and 21% for assistant, associate, and full
professors compared to the top peer schools have remained constant over time.
Regent Roach noted that this is the first time such figures have been presented to the
Regents, and that he was surprised that the University has dropped so far. He asked
that CESF prepare the same type of graphs and tables that were presented last year to
show comparisons with the University's peer groups.


-89 -



November Meeting, 1989


Following further discussion about faculty salaries, Professor Penchansky turned
to a discussion of the cost of health care benefits. He observed that the Umversity's
health care expenditures are increasing by 12-13 percent per year, which is about three
times the rate of increase of the Consumer Price Index and twice the rate of increase
of the Medical Care Price Index. CESF believes that one reason for this is the fact
that MCare HMO, a primary health care provider for University employees, is served
by University Hospital, which, as a tertiary care center, provides the most costly type
of care. One way to control costs, according to CESF, would be for employees'
coverage to be based on less acute, less costly beds than those found at University
Hospital.
Professor Penchansky then responded to questions from the Regents about
CESF's contention that the tertiary care environment creates extraordinarily high
health care costs, which could be reduced if rates were based on the cost of less
expensive, community-type hospital beds.
Annual Report on Research
President Duderstadt then called on William C. Kelly, Interim Vice President
for Research, to present the 1989 Research Report.
Vice President Kelly reported that total research expenditures for fiscal year
1989 exceeded $264.5 million, which is an increase of 12.7% over the previous fiscal
year. Sponsored research expenditures from external sources increased by 14.6% over
the past year. Since 1980, total research expenditures have increased by 143%.
Vice President Kelly noted that in 1989 the University received 109
"mega-awards" of $400,000 or more, compared with 50 that were received in 1987.
These major awards are a barometer of the overall strength and stability of the
University's research endeavors. He then described the research portfolio by sponsor,
by broad fields of study, and by University units. (These statistics are enumerated in
detail in a separately-bound report that accompanied the meeting agenda.)
Vice President Kelly concluded by describing the current research environment
as being competitive for external funding, faced with increasing costs, obligations to
support graduate students, increasing pressures to publish, dependence on
interdisciplinary collaboration, intrusion of federal regulations and controls, rigorous
promotion and tenure standards, and burgeoning committee loads for researchers.
President Duderstadt pointed out that in terms of research expenditures, the
University of Michigan is one of the top two or three in the United States when
independent research laboratories are excluded from comparison. Regent Baker
noted that the University's status as a leading center of research is of great benefit to
the people of the state of Michigan.
Regent Power commented on the acceptance rate statistics which indicate that
the rate in 1988 may have been exceptionally high. Vice President Kelly noted that
this statistic may not be particularly useful because it refers to both competitive and
noncompetitive proposals. He said he would try to devise a more useful measure for
use in future presentations.


-90 -



November Meeting, 1989


Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
approved the minutes of the meeting of October 19, 1989. Regent Baker noted that
he was abstaining from voting because he felt "a grave injustice had been done to free
speech" by actions taken at the last meeting.
Reports
Vice President Womack announced that Standard & Poors had increased the
University's debt rating from AA- to AA+. No public institution in the country is
rated above that, and it means that the University of Michigan is the only public
university with a rating higher than that of the state in which it is located. He said that
the new rating will benefit the University in two ways: the instruments people hold of
its debt will be more valuable, and when the University issues debt in the future, the
rate could be lower by 10-20 basis points.
Regarding the Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory Report, Regent Smith
noted that the University's investment managers had underperformed their guidelines,
and asked how the University's managers' performance had compared to that of their
peer groups. University investment officer Norman Herbert responded that in each
case the University's managers had generally performed better than the peer groups in
their three basic styles.
In response to another question from Regent Smith, it was noted that the
contractor on the Maternal and Child Health Center project is Granger Construction
Company, and the architect is TMP. Regent Smith requested that that information be
included in future reports.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents voted
to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Summary Report of Gifts Received,
Detail Reports of Gifts Received, and Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and above for
October, 1989. The following gifts were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                           66,580
American Council or an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington, D.C.
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts        7,000
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne New Jersey
for the Associates Program m the School of Business Administration     5,000
American Diabetes Association, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                    25,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                    51,500
American Society for Engineering Education, Washington, D.C.
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                          7,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
the Institute for Science and Technology                               11,000


-91 -



November Meeting, 1989


Ann Arbor Fire Department, Ann Arbor
for Surgery Burn Research in the Medical School                              6,000
Anonymous Donor
first payment on a pledge of $1.0 million for the University of Michigan Cancer
Center                                                                     200,000
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 72,550
ARCO Oil and Gas Company,Dallas, Texas
for support of the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering  6,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                           11,917
W. Timothy Baetz, Chicago Illinois
300 shares of Intel Corporation common stock; pledge payment for unrestricted
support of the Law School                                                   10,200
Willard J. Banyon Estate
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  50,000
Bergstrom Foundation Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
Alfred Berkowitz Philanthropic Fund, Birmingham
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Art Acquisitions Fund              15,000
Les and Anne Biederman Foundation, Inc. Traverse City
pledge payments for the College of Engineering, the Medical School, and the
University of Michigan Hospitals                                            10,000
Max A. Blumer Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Doctor Max A. Blumer Memorial Loan Fund in the Medical School      147,709
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust, Ann Arbor
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School              10,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Preston W. Slosson, and the Brockman/Hall Fellowships in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           30,324
Ruth Carson Bugbee Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      10,000
Jerry A. Carlson, Traverse City
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              12,000
Kevin Casey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
first payment on a pledge of $15,000 for Thoracic Surgery Fellowships in the
Medical School                                                              10,000
Center for Machine Intelligence, Ann Arbor
for discretionary support of the College of Engineering                     35,792
John M. Chase, Jr., Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                    7,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           7,499
Rockwood Q. P. Chin Storrs Connecticut
300 shares of benerali Electric Corporation common stock; for the Dr. Frances
Wang Chin Endowed Fellowship in the Medical School                          17,550
A. A. Christman, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                          20,000
Ciba-Geigy Limited, Basle, Switzerland
for research in the Medical School                                          10,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Citibank, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Professorship in the School of Business Administration  50,000
Coin-Op Specialists, Inc., Adrian
tor support of the College of Engineering                                    5,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                10,000
Ellwood L. Cushing Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                          18,750
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         203,400
Charles C. Dickinson III, Wichita Falls, Texas
for studies in religion support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000


-92 -



November Meeting, 1989


Domino's Pizza, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support of the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital                           20,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation Midland
for support of the College of Engineering                                   22,000
Dow ChemicaliU.SA., Midland
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
the Institute of Science and Technology, and Career Planning and Placement   8,000
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                              15,875
Jean D. Golden Dunning Estate
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                               5,000
Wilma L. Farrar Estate
for the Stephen D. Farrar Memorial Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       84,000
Patricia A. Figueras Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      45,602
W. R. Flannery Pontiac
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000
Harry L. Freeman, Chevy Chase, Maryland
pledge payment for the I. L. Sharfman Economics Fellowship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            5,000
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
first payment on a pledge of $125,000 for the Alumni Association            45,000
Christine an Ferdinand Gaensbauer, Sun City, Arizona
600 shares of Halliburton Company common stock- a Donor Pooled Income Fund
contribution for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School                 23,700
Galen-Pharma, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
for the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center in the Medical School  15,000
General Electric Company Schenectady, New York
for the Presidential Young Investigator Award in the College of Engineering  10,000
Richard C. Gerstenberg, Bloomfield Hills
662 shares of Marsh & McLennan common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                              50,064
Charles S. Griffin, Fort Wayne Indiana
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Dean E. Glidden, Lost Tree Village, Florida
300 shares of Textron, Inc. common stock; for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      8,081
James B. Griffin, Bethesda, Maryland
for the James B. Griffin Fund, a Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                100,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  15,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for fellowships and scholarships in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Engineering                                                      30,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan Ann Arbor
for research in the Schoolof Public Health                                   5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for PCB biodegradation research in the College of Engineering               50,000
Honda R & D Company, Ltd., Saitama Japan
for thermal research in the College of Engineering                           8,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury Connecticut
for unrestricted support of the School of Music                             10,000
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           5,090
Maxwell Jospey, Allen Park
for research in the Medical School                                          10,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,250
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York New York
for the Max Kade Foundation Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                        21,000
Kazunao Kubotera, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering                                   10,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc..   New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          14,715


-93 -



November Meeting, 1989


Lurie Family Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard iell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School
of Business Administration                                                   35,825
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Farmington Hills
pledge payments for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
Medical School; and support for the School o? Music                          15,500
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Programs in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                         13,800
Charles A. McCloskey Estate
for undergraduate student financial aid                                      30,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for support of the College of Engineering                                    26,000
McGraw Foundation, Wheeling, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           7,500
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Salzburg Festival in the School of Music                              5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  207,310
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
and the Clements Library1 and pledge payment for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                              146,000
Sarah Morgan Estate
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Carl and Sarah Morgan Scholarship      38,275
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology      214,500
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            9,000
Marigowda Nagaraju and Renuka Nagaraju Charitable Trust, Flint
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                                5,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           25,000
Clifford T. Nelson Estate
for the Clifford T. Nelson Fund in the School of Dentistry                  150,000
Jeanne M. Norris Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       22,500
Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
for support of the Medsport Program, the University of Michigan Hospitals    10,000
Jorge M. Perez, Miami Beach, Florida
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Perez Fellowship in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning                                              10,000
Perstorp Pharma, Perstorp, Sweden
for diabetes research in the Medical School                                  17,500
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Doctoral Program in Health Policy in the School of Public Health  150,000
Pillsbury Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           7,000
Dr. and Mrs. Manard E. Pont, Castro Valley, California
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship m Neurology, in the Medical School         10,000
Marjorie Merriweather Post Foundation of D.C., Washington, D.C.
for support of the School of Business Administration                         25,000
Philip H. Power Trust Ann Arbor
for the Sarah Goddard Power Memorial Fund                                    10,000
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Auditing Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               30,000
Quaker Oats Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  20,890
Research Fund'of American Otological Society, Inc., Bronx, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,000
Rockwell International, Dallas, Texas
for the Rockwell International Graduate Fellowship and other support in the
College of Engineering                                                       23,458


-94 -



November Meeting, 1989


Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Lyle C. Roll                16,813
Ben Rosenberg Estate
for support of the Simpson Memorial Institute in the Medical School           5,000
Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Trust, Green Valley, Arizona
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Music               7,000
Schlumberger Foundation, New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College of
Engineering                                                                  15,000
Nataline V. Scott Estate
for the Guido V. and Agnes N. Vincenti Memorial Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           262,585
Fred E. Shaw Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,681
Shell Oil Company Foundation Houston Texas
for the Shell Company Funds in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        50,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena California
for the Athletic Bands Fund in the School of Music                           20,000
Paul E. Siegel, Hastings
4,085 shares of various corporate common stocks- for the Paul E. Siegel Fund, a
Charitable Remainder Umtrust, for the ultimate benefit of the Law School and
the College of Literature Science, and the Arts                             143,159
Siemens Gammasonics, Inc., Hoffman Estates Illinois
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                          36,234
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art                       10,000
Smithkline Beckman Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for pharmaceutical research in the College of Pharmacy                       15,000
Marjorie W. Spaulding Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      125,000
Special Metals Corporation, New Hartford, New York
for support of the School of Dentistry                                        5,000
State Bar of Michigan, Lansing
pledge payment for the Institute for Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  16,667
Helmut F. Stern Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art                               10,130
Sycamore Fund, Chicago Illinois
pledge payments on behalf of Jackson W. Smart for the School of Business
Administration, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
Department of Athletics                                                      11,000
Telectronics Pacing Systems, Englewood, Colorado
for pacemaker research in the College of Engineering                          6,250
John L. Tishman, New York, New York
for University advancement activities                                         5,200
Darle L. Tobel, Novi
for the Charles I. Tobel Memorial Fund in the Medical School                  5,000
Joel L. Tonkin Trust, Leawood, Kansas
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for support of the Medical Schoor                                             5,850
Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the President's Fund                                                     29,660
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for diabetes research in the Medical School, and Employee Matching Gifts     18,750
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the diabetes education program in the Medical School                      6,500
Westinghouse Electric Corporation Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for highway systems research in the College of'Engineering                   20,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for support of the College of Engineering, and pledge payment for the Jack D.
Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              125,000
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr Ann Arbor
for the Growth Fund in the School of Business Administration                  5,000
William F. Wolff III, New York, New York
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts               5,000
Yanase & Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for thermal research activities in the College of Engineering                 9,000


-95 -



November Meeting, 1989


Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School of
Business Administration                                                      35,825
William C. Zuilhoff Estate
for the William C. Zuilhoff Fund in the Medical School                       70,858
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Marian S. Carson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
early 19th century Bounty mutiny letter from Samuel Coates to Sarah Horner; for the Clements
Library
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie Indiana
eleven pen and ink drawings by Thomas Nast, and the Personal military files of Douglas
MacArthur from WWI
Gwyer Blueprint, Flint
press-on letters and border tape for mapping and cartography; for the University of MichiganFlint, Resource Science Department
S. W. Jackson, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada
the David Bates Douglass Papers; for the Clements Library
Ronald R. Papke and Marilyn Knak, Sterling Heights
furniture for Camp Michigania
David B. Stevens, Lexington, Kentucky
a 1970 Venture 21 sailboat with accessories; for Camp Michigania
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1989
Julius L. Chambers, J.D., LL.M., Professor of Law
Dale G. Karr, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Willard J. Hendrickson, Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
term, September 1, 1989
Jonathan D. Lowe, Assistant Dean for Law School Relations, reappointed Assistant Dean for Law School
Relations, for a three-year term December 1, 1989
Gail K. McCracken, Assistant Dean and Lecturer in Management, School of Management,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed Assistant Dean, School of Management, UM-Dearborn, for a twoyear term, July 1, 1990
Dietrich H. Vincent, Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering, reappointed to active status, Winter
term, 1990
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Robert A. Bix, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair of the
Department of Mathematics, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-and-one-halfyear term, January 1, 1990
William D. Drake, Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources appointed Professor of Population Planning and International Health, without tenure,
School of Public Health, for a five-year term, October 1, 1989
Georgine M. Steude, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, appointed Interim Chair of the Department of Anesthesiology, November 1, 1989


-96 -



November Meeting, 1989


The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Enoineering Executive Committee
Herman Mete, Jr., for the remainder of the term ending June 30, 1991, vice Robert M. Howe, retired
Honorary Degrees Committee
Geraldine Ford, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992, vice Otis M. Smith, term
expired
Sarah S. Riordan student member, for a one-year term, September 1, 1989 - June 30, 1990
Alan J. Woronoff, student member, for a two-year term, September 1, 1989 - June 30, 1991
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Andrew K. Moffit, student member, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1992
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Susan Boehm, or the remainder of the term ending June 30, 1991 vice Reg A. Williams, resigned
Linda L. Daniels, for the remainder of the term ending June 30, 1990, vice Sally L. Lusk, resigned
Advisory Committee on Recreational Snorts
Nelson Peralta, student member, for a two-year term, September 1, 1989 - July 31, 1991
UM-Dearbom College of Arts Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Sidne M. Bolkosk substitute for Linda E. Fisher urg promtion and tenure deliberations
Allan R. Emery, substitute for John F. Riebesell during promotion and tenure deliberations
Bernard W. Klei, alternate substitute for Linda E. Fisher during promotion and tenure deliberations
Richard A. Potts, alternate substitute for John F. Riebesell during promotion and tenure deliberations
Extended leave of absence. The Regents approved a two-year scholarly activity
leave for William E. Bolcom, Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1990 - May
30, 1992.
William Clay Ford Professor of Product Manufacturing. The Regents approved
the appointment of Walton M. Hancock as the William          Clay Ford Professor of
Product Manufacturing for a five-year period, effective November 1, 1989. Provost
Vest noted that the Regents Communication should have read that the William Clay
Ford Professorship was established by a grant from the Ford Motor Company, not the
Ford Foundation.
Associate Vice President for Business Operations. The Regents approved a
change in the title of Director of Business Operations to Associate Vice President for
Business Operations, and a change in the appointment of William B. Krumm from
Director of Business Operations to Associate Vice President for Business Operations,
effective December 1, 1989.
Associate Vice President for Finance and Controller. The Regents approved a
change in the title of Controller to Associate Vice President for Finance and
Controller, and a change in the appointment of Chandler W. Matthews from
Controller to Associate Vice President for Finance and Controller, effective
December 1, 1989.
Assistant Vice President for Personnel. The Regents approved a change in the
title of Personnel Director to Assistant Vice President for Personnel, and a change in
the title of James R. Thiry from Personnel Director to Assistant Vice President for
Personnel, effective December 1, 1989.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
-97 -



November Meeting, 1989


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective October 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistr
Susan L. Brodsky D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, September 19, 1989
Shareen Char D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, October 9, 1989
Merle J. Jaarda, D.D.S., M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
David H. Kohn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, October 16, 1989
Linda M. Park, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Meigan C. Aronson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, January 1, 1990
Rachid Baiod, Ph.D., Lecturer in Physics, September 1, 1989
Medical School
Bret A. Hughes, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of Physiology
Marc L. Kessler, Ph.D Instructor in Radiation Oncology
Allan D. Olson, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, September 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Nancy K. Florida, from Lecturer to Instructor in Asian Languages and Cultures
Medical School
Lee A. Green from Lecturer in Family Practice and Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy,
School of Public Health, to Assistant Professor of Family Practice and Lecturer in Health Services
Management and Policy, School of Public Health
Wayne P. Wolfson, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor II in Radiology, November 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Art
John H. Stephenson Catherine B. Heller Professor of Art leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Takeshi Takahara, Professor of Art, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31,1991
School of Business Administration
Christine G. Papajohn Lecturer in Corporate Strategy medical leave without salary, September 22, 1989 -
January 30,1990, and disability leave, January 31, 1990 - September 30, 2019
School of Education
Burton E. Voss, Professor of Science Education, with tenure, extended sick leave, October 27 -
November 3, 1989
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Duane F. Alwin, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - December 31, 1990
William R. Anderson, Directssor of arium, Prof        Botany with tenure, and Curator of
Vascular Plants, duty off campus, January 1 - February 28, 1996
Morris Bornstein, Professor of Economics, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 22 - December 31,
1989
Charles L. Brace, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of the Museum of Anthropology,
sabbatical leave September 1 - December 31, 1989 and May 1 - June 30, 1990
Robert F. Dernberger, Professor of Economics, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 22 -
December 31, 1989
Cecil D. Eby, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -
May 31, 1990
Janis P. Hardwick, Assistant Professor of Statistics, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Albert I. Hermalin, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Lois W. Hoffman, Professor of Psychology with tenure, research leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Raymond C. Kelly, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Joyce P. Marcus, Professor of Anthropology with tenure, and Curator of Latin American Archaeology,
Museum of Anthropology, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990


-98 -



November Meeting, 1989


Medical School
Eileen Mollen, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, extended sick leave, October 8 -
November 18, 1989
Joyce A. Wahr, Instructor in Anesthesiology, personal leave, June 1 - November 30, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Larry King, Associate Dean and Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 15 - October 31, 1989
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard C. Porter, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989 (previously reported as January 1 - May 31, 1990)
Medical School
Paul R. Knight, Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990
(previously reported as November l, 1989 - Apri 30, 1990)
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Kenneth E. Schlling, Associate Professor of Mathematics with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1990 (previously reported as January 1 - December 31, 1990)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Public Health
Steven P. Levine, Associate Professor of Industrial Health, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistrv
Sandra A. L. LaTurno, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, October 19, 1989
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alvenice B. Brown, Lecturer in English Language and Literature
Sergei Kan, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, May 31, 1989
Medical School
Caridad Bravo-Fernandez, Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology October 13, 1989
Peter M. Burkholder Professor of Pathology, with tenure, September 29, 1989
Herbert Kaufer, Professor of Surgery, with tenure
William N. Kelley, John G. Searle Professor of Internal Medicine, Chair of the Department of Internal
Medicine, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, September 30, 1989
Neil A. Swanson, Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, August 11, 1989
School of Public Health
John P. Kirscht, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, October 22, 1989
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoir:
Hyman Kornbluh, co-divisional director of the Institute of Labor and Industrial
Relations and assistant professor of education, retired from active faculty status on
September 18, 1989, after 28 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Kornbluh earned his B.A. degree in economics from the University of
Wisconsin in 1947 and his M.A. degree in education from the University of California
at Berkeley in 1967. After receiving his undergraduate degree, he worked for a
number of years as a labor educator in the trade union movement. He came to the
-99 -



November Meeting, 1989


University of Michigan in 1961 as director of the Division of Labor Education (now
known as the Labor Studies Center) at the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations.
In 1972, Professor Kornbluh received an additional appointment as assistant professor
in the School of Education.
In the School of Education, Professor Kornbluh was instrumental in developing
the program for the National Study of Collective Negotiations in Education. This
research and teaching program was one of the earliest university-based efforts to
examine systematically the rise and importance of the teacher union movement in the
United States. Professor Kornbluh published a number of articles and monographs
which examined the role of teachers' unions in American education. Especially
noteworthy was his investigation of the quality of teacher worklife and the role that
quality of worklife played in advancing effective instruction in schools.
As director of the Labor Studies Center, Professor Kornbluh was recognized
nationally as one of the truly great innovators in workers' education. The center's
programs addressed critical issues in labor education and were responsible for
introducing significant advances in education and training which were adopted
throughout the trade union movement. Among these is the Workers' Culture
Program. Conceived by Professor Kornbluh and his colleagues, the Workers' Culture
Program is a major effort to retrieve and represent those aspects of working-class
culture which are too often lost or ignored in America. Professor Kornbluh's effort in
this area was recognized by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities
in 1980-81.
Most recently, Professor Kornbluh has been involved in a series of
interdisciplinary and cross-cultural research activities aimed at increasing our
understanding of the relationships between workplace democracy and quality of
worklife. With colleagues at the Institute for Social Research, he has examined
worker-participation practices in Sweden and Japan. These studies speak to a
question which has been at the center of Professor Kornbluh's intellectual and
educational life throughout his tenure at the University: How can we most effectively
assure the democratic participation of all parties in our industrial order and assure
that opportunities for further education and meaningful learning will be available to
all workers?
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Hyman
Kornbluh Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education.
Memorials
The Regents adopted the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
October 22, 1989, of John P. Kirscht, professor of health behavior and health
education in the School of Public Health.
Professor Kirscht was a nationally known researcher who studied the
relationship between psychosocial factors and health behavior. His work in adherence
to medical recommendations and intervention strategies for modification of
health-related behavior is widely recognized. He was the author of a great number of
scholarly articles and was principal investigator for a series of major health-related
research projects, the most recent being a study of AIDS-related beliefs and behavior.
Jack was a dedicated teacher and advisor with a wry sense of humor. He had the
ability to cut through complex issues to the heart of the problem, and this tenacity for
clear thinking was greatly admired by colleagues and students alike.
Professor Kirscht was born in Beatrice, Nebraska, in 1931. He received his B.A.


-100 -



November Meeting, 1989


degree in 1951 and his M.A. degree in sociology in 1955, from the University of
Chicago. He served as a predoctoral research fellow at the University of California at
Berkeley from 1955-59 when he received his Ph.D. in psychology.
Jack's career at Michigan began in 1961, when he became a study director at the
Survey Research Center at the Institute for Social Research. In 1963, he became a
research associate at the School of Public Health and, in 1966, was named associate
professor of public health administration and lecturer in biostatistics. In 1969, he was
promoted to professor of public health administration and, in 1972, after
reorganization within the School of Public Health, became professor of health
behavior and health education.
Jack could always be counted on to serve his university. He was appointed
interim dean of the school in 1982 and was instrumental in smoothing the transition of
leadership with the arrival of the new dean in 1984. He was an insightful and valuable
member of the school's executive committee and brought his strong administrative
experience to the task. Jack also responded with vigor and enthusiasm to his role as
citizen and community member by serving as an Ann Arbor city councilman from
1969-72.
There was much more to Jack Kirscht than his academic pursuits. He was an
athletic man who excelled on the squash court, was an avid skier, and could be seen
daily bicycling to his office. His artistic skills were plentiful and his fine and funny line
drawings were treasured by all lucky enough to receive them in celebration of a special
occasion.
Most of all, we will remember Jack for the sensitive, thoughtful, and patient
guidance he gave to doctoral students in health behavior and health education. His
door was always open. He never failed to coach when instruction was needed, support
when encouragement was the order of the day, and give hope when inspiration was the
answer. We are deeply saddened at his death and his loss to us all. Our sincerest
condolences go to his wife Jennifer, his daughter Miriam, and his step-daughter
Deborah.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authorities in each case, Regent Smith
moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved several
changes to previously approved degree lists. Among the changes were a correction to
the spelling of the name of Glenn Laurence Smith on the May, 1989 Law School
degree list.
1989 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1989
The Regents received the University of Michigan 1989 Financial Report
Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1989.
Six Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the regular six month report of University Audits
Department activities for the period April 1, 1989 through September 30, 1989.
University Auditor Carl Smith responded to several questions about specific items in
the report.


-101 -



November Meeting, 1989


State Building Authority Lease and Utility Tunnel Easement Agreement for the E.H.
Krause Natural Science Building
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded approval of a resolution
authorizing a lease and utility tunnel easement agreement between the State Building
Authority, the State of Michigan, and the Regents of the University of Michigan for
the E.H. Kraus Natural Science Building. Regent Roach had some questions
concerning the language of the resolution; therefore, it was decided to defer action for
the time being.
State Funding Request for Utility Project
Regent Power moved, Regent Baker seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved submission of a utility project for funding by the State of Michigan. Projects
included in the funding proposal are 1) Central Campus switching station expansion;
2) North Campus switching station expansion; 3) new steam tunnel to the medical
center; 4) new steam line to Main Campus; 5) additional 3.5 megawatt gas turbine; 6)
major tunnel repairs and asbestos removal; 7) new boiler for the central power plant.
The total costs of the seven projects is $34 million.
Regent Baker asked Vice President Womack for a report on the total cost of
asbestos removal to date.
Proposed Contract with a University Employee for a Proposed Sculpture at the Glen
Avenue Parking Structure (Louis Marinaro)
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Varner seconded, that the Regents approve
entering into a contract with Mr. Louis Marinaro for a sculpture to be placed on the
site of the Glen Avenue Parking Structure. Following some questions from the
Regents regarding what the sculpture would look like and where t would lierbe placed,
the Regents voted unanimously to approve the contract.
Because Mr. Marinaro is a University employee and a party to the contract, this
arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with the statute:
1. Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Louis
Marinaro, the sculptor.
2. Financial terms of the contract have been established by the
University. The total cost for the design, fabrication and delivery of
the piece will be $55,000. Duration of the contract will be for a
maximum of thirty months, at which time the piece will be installed on
the University of Michigan campus. No facilities or services of the
University are included in the contract and no University employees
are assigned for fulfillment of the contract.
3. Pecuniary interest is the amount paid for the services as outlined in #2
above.


-102 -



November Meeting, 1989


Proposed Purchase Agreement between the University and a Small Business
Incorporated and Owned by a University Employee (Dr. Victor Rosenberg)
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Varner seconded, authorization for the
University to enter into a purchase agreement with Personal Bibliographic Software,
Inc. This proposed arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute, since the owner of Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc., Dr. Victor
Rosenberg, is also a University employee.
Following some discussion about the specifics of the proposed arrangement, it
was decided that, since the terms of the contract were agreed upon, the following
sentence would be struck from the Regents Communication: "The terms of any
purchase from Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc. under the contract will reflect
normal University purchasing procedures and will be negotiated at arm's length."
With that sentence deleted, the vote was taken and the motion was approved
unanimously.
The following information is provided in compliance with the Conflict of
Interest Statute:
1. Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Personal
Bibliographic Software, Inc., wholly owned by Dr. Victor Rosenberg.
2. Terms of the contract are that the duration of the contract will be
three years. During that time, the University will stock this software at
University Stores. The software currently sells for $170 per copy. The
software upgrade price is $45 per upgrade. By ordering directly from
Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc., the University will receive a
60% discount on the first 100 copies and 75% after 100 copies have
been purchased. Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc. has agreed to
sell the software for $50 per copy for all public workstations on
campus.
3. Dr. Rosenberg's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of
Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc. Should the University enter into
a purchase agreement with Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc.,
Personal Bibliographic Software, Inc. will receive revenues from the
sale of the software to the University.
Administrative Services Building Renovations
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded, approval of a project for
renovation of the Administrative Services Building as described in the Regents
Communication. The motion was approved unanimously.
Hill Auditorium Restoration and Renovation Feasibility Study
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Brown seconded, that the Regents authorize
a feasibility study for restoration of Hill Auditorium and the appointment of Albert
Kahn Associates as prime consultant, as detailed in the Regents Communication. In
response to a question from Regent Power, it was noted that the budget would be
approximately $200,000. The motion was approved unanimously.


-103 -



November Meeting, 1989


Renovations
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: C.C. Little Radiogenic
Isotope Geochemistry Laboratory; Parking Operations Annual Maintenance;
Mortimer E. Cooley Memorial Building HVAC Replacement; Central Campus 60#
Steam Loop Completion; and UM Hospitals Cooling Tower Replacement.
Membership in the Council on Ocean Affairs
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved membership in the Council on Ocean Affairs.
There followed a five-minute recess.
State Building Authority Lease and Utility Tunnel Easement Agreement for the E.H.
Krause Natural Science Building
Regent Roach said that his concerns about the resolution had been satisfied.
The vote was then taken on the motion that the Regents approve the resolution and
authorize the President and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to execute the
lease for the E.H. Kraus Natural Science Building, convey title to the property as
required by the lease, and execute the easement agreement (for installation,
maintenance, repair, replacement and/or use of a utility tunnel to serve the facility).
The motion was approved unanimously. Copies of the easement agreement, lease,
and warranty deed are available for review in the Investment Office or the Office of
the Secretary of the University. The resolution follows:
Resolution of the Regents of the University of Michigan
Approving Lease, Utility Tunnel Easement Agreement and Conveyance of Property
for the Natural Sciences Building
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan authorizing a lease between the
State Building Authority, the State o Michigan and the Regents of the University of Michigan for the
purpose of acquiring by the Authority and leasing to the State and the University a Natural Sciences
Building, approving a utility tunnel easement agreement and the conveyance of property, and to provide
matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority") has been incorporated under and in
pursuant of the provisions of Act 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the
purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning improving enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefor
for the use of the State of Michigan (the "State") including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Sections 5, 6, and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, or any of its agencies;
and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") has been created and is
maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority acquire a natural Sciences
Building (the "Facility"), and lease the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to
acquire the Facility and lease the same to the State and University; and
WHEREAS, the Authority, by resolution adopted on August 22, 1985, did determine, subject to
the conditions set forth in such resolution, to acquire the Facility and to lease the same to the State and
the University; and


*104 -



November Meeting, 1989


WHEREAS, the site of the Facility (the "Site") is presently owned by the University and the
Facility will be constructed by the University and it is intended that the Site by conveyed to the Authority
by the University and the Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the University
and lease to the University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out
necessary governmental functions and t o provide necessary services to the people of the State, as
mandated or permitted by Constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition
represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, a lease between the Authority, the State and the University providing for the
acquisition of the Site and the Facility by the Authority and the Lease of the Site and the Facility to the
State and the University has been prepared in substantially final form and is attached hereto as Exhibit A
(the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, the
State Administrative Board of the State, and by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of the State
concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house and if the Lease is for an
institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VII of the
State Constitution, then in addition the Lease shal be authorized by the institution of higher education
and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the University authorize and
approved the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Authority intends to finance a part of the cost of the Facility through the issuance
of its revenue bonds as authorized in Act 183 which together with other funds legally available therefor
will be sufficient to finance the cost of the Facility, and it is necessary for authorized officers of the
University to approve of the description of the Facility for use in the official statement (the "Official
Statement") to be distributed by the Authority in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds; and
WHEREAS, the University will require for future use certain utility tunnel easements through the
Facility which are to be conveyed to the Authority and the Authority and the University require an
agreement to provide for such easements and the same has been prepared and is attached hereto as
Exhibit B (the 'Utility Tunnel Easement Agreement").
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
THAT:
1. The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease and the Utility Tunnel Easement
Agreement in substantially the forms attached as Exhibit A and Exhibit B and the President and Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and
deliver the Lease and the Utility Tunnel Easement Agreement in substantially the forms attached as
Exhibit A and Exhibit B for and on behalf of the University at such time as shall be agreeable to the State.
The Authority and the University officers and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of
the University for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183; such officers are hereby authorized to approve such
changes in and modifications to the lease and the Utility Tunnel Easement Agreement as do not
materially alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the Utilit Tunnel
Easement Agreement and the request for action submitted to the Regents in connection therewith;
provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve of a change in the Lease with respect to the
rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of the University contained in
the Lease approved herein. The University hereby determines that the maximum rental in the amount
described below is reasonable and the authorized officers are hereby authorized to approve in the Lease,
as executed, a rental in an amount determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental", but not exceeding
$1,335,000 each year and a lease term of not exceeding 25 years.
2. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as heretofore and hereafter constructed and
acquired, to the Authority as provided in the Lease is hereby approved and the President and Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute a
warranty deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C and bills of sale to accomplish such
conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by counsel for the University.
4. The President and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and
directed to approve the description of the Facility and other matters relating to the University as may be
required for use in the Official Statement to be distributed by the Authority in connection with the sale of
its revenue bonds.
5. The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligation specified
in the Lease and acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon the passage ofthe title to the


-105 -



November Meeting, 1989


Facility to the University or the State without consideration and the University hereby represents that it
would'have executed and delivered the Lease even though the title to the Facility would not pass upon the
termination of the Lease.
6. The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an amount
not in excess of $8,000,000.
7. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
8. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
SACUA Presentation
President Duderstadt then called on Professor Gayl D. Ness, Chair of the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA) to give SACUA's annual
presentation to the Regents.
Professor Ness introduced his colleagues, Professors Edward Chudacoff,
Marilynn Rosenthal, Kate Warner, Peggie Hollingsworth, Sharon Brooks, and Tom
Flanagan. Professor Ness said that the presentation would focus on the faculty's role
and activities with respect to the Michigan Mandate and diversity. Following some
further comments by Professor Ness, each member of SACUA described the work of a
faculty member in his or her department whose work has provided a significant
community, state-wide, or national service while also contributing to the goals of the
Michigan Mandate. Professor Hollingsworth described the work of Chemistry
Professor Billie Joe Evans; Professor Warner described the achievements of Allan
Feldt, Professor of Urban Planning; Professor Lenahan discussed the work of William
Stapp, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation;
Professor Brooks told of the work of Marilyn Woolfolk, Assistant Professor of
Dentistry and Director of the Migrant Worker Program in the School of Dentistry and
Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs in the School of Public Health.
Professor Rosenthal described the Wade McCree Scholars program at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn.
Public Service Award. Professor Chudacoff then introduced a SACUA-initiated
proposal for establishment of a "Regents' Award(s) for Distinguished Public Service".
The award would signify outstanding contributions over many years or an especially
outstanding or significant shorter term contribution.
During the discussion that followed, the Regents expressed support for the
Public Service Award proposal. President Duderstadt noted that it had received the
strong support of the executive officers. The Regents invited submission of the Public
Service Award proposal as an action request at a future Regents' Meeting.
In response to a question from Regent Varner about the status of a proposal
that would stop the tenure clock for the purpose of child care, Professor Ness observed
that the proposal was proceeding through the system and was currently being reviewed
by legal counsel. Provost Vest noted that this policy is undergoing very active review
and that it has the unanimous support of the administration. The question, he noted,
is how to proceed, not whether. Regent Baker requested that a complete cost analysis
be included when the proposal is brought to the Regents.


-106 -



November Meeting, 1989


Following further comments, the meeting moved to the Anderson Room for
Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Adam Blumekranz, Eric Lefkofsky, and David Kaufman, students, on
endorsement of Willie the Wolverine as the University's official mascot; Zachary
Kittrie, student, on the new graduation ceremonies; Allen Cochran, United
Brotherhood of Carpenters Local 512, on the University's circumvention of the Public
Wage Rate Act (PA 166); Rick Weir, owner of AC3 Computing Center, on the
University's computer retailing activities; Fred Veigel, International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Local 252, on the University's circumvention of PA 166; Dona
Deman, citizen, about her medical records.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Transportation,
accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of October, 1989 totalled
$170.47. The next meeting will take place on December 14 and 15, 1989.
Richard L.Kennedy, Sectary


-107 -



DECEMBER MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 14, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Brown arrived at 2:05 P.M.; Regent Baker was
absent.
Michigan Partnership for New Education
Before beginning the formal meeting agenda, President Duderstadt announced
the formation of the Michigan Partnership for New Education. This is a $48 million
public-private partnership involving the University of Michigan, Michigan State
University, Wayne State University, the state government, and the private sector. The
partnership was proposed and organized by Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, a Michigan
business leader. The universities, the state, and the private sector will each contribute
$16 million to this undertaking over the next five years. The purpose of the
partnership is to bring the research capabilities of Michigan's universities together to
build a model for K-12 public education for the nation. The three universities will
work with school systems to develop, test, evaluate and share new methods of teaching
and learning. President Duderstadt noted that formation of the partnership illustrates
that higher education in the state is addressing one of Michigan's most serious
challenges, the quality of K-12 education.
1990-91 Tuition Proposal
Next, President Duderstadt announced his intention to recommend to the Board
in July, 1990 that the in-state undergraduate tuition increase be limited to the higher
education inflation rate, which is expected to be about 6.5%. In order to make this
commitment so far in advance of legislative action, he noted that the University will
have to implement a series of cost reduction and reallocation measures.
The president said that he was taking this action "to focus debate on the real
issues of higher education, and to issue a challenge to the people of the state to
develop and implement a strategy to provide access to high quality public education
and to restore adequate public support for higher education." He noted the erosion in
public support of higher education to the point where Michigan now ranks 45th among
the states in this area over the last decade, and that the intention is to "put the public
back in public higher education."
President Duderstadt emphasized that the University can only make a
commitment to limit the tuition increase for one year. If at the end of that period a
long-term strategy for addressing the underfunding of higher education has not been
adopted, the University will have no choice but to return to higher tuition increases in


-109 -



December Meeting, 1989


order to meet its true needs. He also noted that the tuition limitation commitment
would be subject to re-evaluation if there is an unforeseen catastrophe in the state
budget situation.
Regent Roach said that he supports the president's proposal and asked what
could be done to move the debate to a broader forum. President Duderstadt replied
that he believes that the elected public officials do understand the issues and want to
support higher education, but that they believe that they do not have the backing of
the state's citizens. The message really has to be delivered to the people of the state.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of November 16, 1989.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports of Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. In response to questions
from Regent Smith abouat the Investment Report, Mr. Herbert, University investment
officer, noted that the interest rate for the purchase of National Bank of Detroit Fixed
Income Fund bonds was 8.70 percent and that promissory notes listed in the report
refer to land contracts.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established and Summaries
of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects for November, 1989. On a
motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted unanimously
to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and above for the month of November, 1989. The Regents
received the following gifts, with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago Illinois
for research m the College of Pharmacy                                 15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                            60,746
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc., Southfield
for research in the School of Public Health                             6,750
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                     24,723
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, the School of Social Work, and the School of
Public Health                                                         102,864
American Sunroof Companv, Southgate
pledge payment on behalf ofHeinz Prechter for the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
Engeering CAD/CAM Laboratory                                           20,000
Amoco Corporation, Naperville, Illinois
for the ChemicalEngineering Faculty Award in the College of Engineering  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute of Gerontology    36,500
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  51,250


-110 -



December Meeting, 1989


Awrey Bakeries, Inc., Livonia
for the Linda S. Awrev Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  25,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge Payment for capital projects in the College of Engineering            20,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for Nephrology and Thoracic Surgery Fellowships in the Medical School         8,000
Bell-Northern Research Ltd., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
for research in the College of Engineering                                   21,000
Bruce B. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    7,400
John Bound, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              12,000
Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids
250 shares of Trustcorp, Inc. common stock; for the Alumni Association, Department
of Athletics, Bentley Library, School of Business Administration, Clements Library,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                          6,469
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond S. Chase, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Bulding in the Department of Athletics               15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            7,499
Chrysler Corporation Fund Highland Park
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering               10,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Glfts                                                       5,600
Harold Cooper BeverlHills, California
for the Harold Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music                     10,000
Robert A. Darr, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the Department
of Athletics                                                                  5,000
Deloitte, Haskins, and Sells Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,980
Suzanne Demaline Estate
for the Sue Ann Demaline Fund in the Alumni Association                      60,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for fellowships and scholarships in the College of Engineering, and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            18,600
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
and the School of Public Health; and for Employee Matching Gifts             42,468
Dow Corning Foundation, Midland
pledge payment for the Dow Corning Assistant Professorships in the Colleges of
Engneering and Literature, Science, and the Arts                            103,806
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering    17,938
John R. Edman, Bloomfield Hills
first payment on a pledge of $15,000 for the Sports Service Building in the Department
of Athletics                                                                  5,000
Frederick L. Feldkamp, Detroit
pledge payments for the Law School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and the Alumni Association; and a gift for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Stephen and Angeline Fisher, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   15,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration, and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the Intelligent Vehicle-Highway System Affiliates
Program in the College of Engineering                                        80,000
Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering                                    6,833
Dr. and Mrs. William L. Fox, Alpena
for the J. Robert Willson Professorship in the Medical School                10,420


-111 -



December Meeting, 1989


Fraternal Order of Eagles Memorial Foundation Fund, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Louise Madsen Memorial Fund in the Medical School                    5,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                             7,669
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support of the College of Engneering                                     7,000
General Motors Corporation Research Laboratories, Warren
for the Intelligent Vehicle-Highway System Affiliates Program in the College of
Engineering                                                                 50,000
Charles H. Gessner, New Canaan, Connecticut
500 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock; as first payment on a pledge of
$50,000 for the School of Business Administration                           33,688
Ann Bedford Goodman Estate
for the Oscar R. Long Memorial Fund in the Medical School                   49,065
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                               10,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Mr. andMrs. Clarke E. Harris, Okemos
856 shares of First of America Corporation common stock; for the Clark Harris Fund,
a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution for the ultimate benefit of the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning                                             42,800
Barnett C. Helzberg, Jr., Kansas City, Missouri
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Hereditary Diseases Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                          20,000
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Conrad Hilton Foundation-Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature Science, and the Arts                                            10,000
Hitachi America, Ltd., New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering                                  30,000
Robert S. Hotchkiss Estate
for the Medical School Library                                               5,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit
for support of the Medical School, Disabled Student Services, Shady Trails Camp,
and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship                                37,600
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for research in the College of-Engineering                                  75,000
Verne G. Istock, Bloomfield Hills
329 shares of NBD Bancorp, Inc. common stock; as first payment on a pledge of
$50,000 for the CA.M.P. Building Program in the Alumm Association           10,322
Mary A. Jackman, Plantation, Florida
5 100 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the Hedrick/Jackman Business
Ethics Fund in the School of Business Administration                        49,288
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry      11,500
Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes7Merit Scholarship in the Law School               25,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School                   5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           8,342
Pauline C. Jones Estate
for the Roger M. Jones Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering   50,000
Miner S. and Mary A. Keeler Fund, Grand Rapids
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
pledge payment for the Interactive Computerized Database Research Project in the
University Libraries                                                       418,637
Charles L. Kelley, Traverse City
566 shares of UNUM Corporation common stock; for the Charles Kelley Fund, a
Donor Pooled Income contribution for the ultimate benefit of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the School of Music                  25,992
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          10,063
Louis A. Kubicek Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                     185,000
Nobuma R. Kutsunai Tokyo, Japan
for support of the College of Pharmacy                                       5,000


-112 -



December Meeting, 1989


L. S. B. Leakey Foundation Pasadena California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             8,000
Harvey E. Lemmen, Grand Rapids
an additional contribution for the Harvey E. Lemmen Fund, a Donor Pooled Income
contribution for the ultimate benefit of the School of Business Administration  6,400
Jack I. Levy Trust
for the Allen F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School                        61,786
Joseph A. Livingston, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
365 shares of Clarion Capital Corporation common stock; for the Journalists in
Residence Program, the President's Fund, and the Philadelphia University of
Michigan Club Scholarship                                                    5,858
Judd D. Malkn Trust, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Stephen Ross Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               5,000
Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit
pledge payment for the University of Michigan Hospital, and for Employee
atching Gifts                                                               20,175
May Department Stores Company Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for Employee Matching Gifts          15,070
Mazda-North America, Inc., Flat Rock
for automotive transportation studies in the Institute of Science and Technology  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                   17,767
Alice H. McLachlin Estate
for the Alice H. McLachlin Student Loan Fund in the Medical School         500,000
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
for support of the School of Business Administration                         5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for documentation research in the Bentley Library, and for the Middle Eastern
Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts        675,000
Michigan State BarToundation Lansing
pledge payment for the Institute for Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  8,000
Minnesota Mimng and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships for minorities and females in the College of Engineering   21,000
John E. Missimore Estate
for the Norma and John Missimore Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy     15,221
Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Monsanto Fellowship in the College of Engineering                    5,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics, and for support
of the Kelsey Museum                                                         9,000
Luella Morey Murphy Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Dean Bursley Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    10,000
National Geographic Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            14,700
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           9,000
Nelson Research and Development, Irvine, California
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School                       65,000
Theodore Papes, Jr. Chappaqua New York
50 shares of International Business Machines common stock; pledge payment for
unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                           5,197
Bradford Perkins, Ypsilanti
for the JohnD. Pierce Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Phillip and Carol Perkins, Bloomfield Hifls
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Medical School                5,000
Terrence G. Perrls, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Potter Stewart Memorial Scholarship and for unrestricted support of the
Law School                                                                  16,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          30,000
H. Robert Reynolds Ann Arbor
for the Ethel V. Curry Distinguished Lecture in Musicology in the School of Music  12,500
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                           60,000
Ronald W. Rosenberg, M.D. P.C., Troy
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  15,000


-113 -



December Meeting, 1989


Saginaw Machine Systems, Inc., Saginaw
for research in the College of Engineering                                  25,000
Sandoz, Ltd., Basle Switzerland
for gerontology research in the Medical School                              25,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover, New Jersey
for dermatology research in the Medical School                             100,000
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship                       6,000
Schwartz Boring Company, Inc., Detroit
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               6,000
Robert E. Scott, Monroe
300 shares of Peoples Savings Bank common stock; for unrestricted support of the
School of Dentistry                                                          5,325
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pedge payment for the Charles W. Seabury Fund in the College of Architecture and
Urban lanning                                                               10,000
Elmer E. Shafer Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      16,049
William G. Simeral Trust, Greenville, Delaware
pledge payment for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  25,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            25,000
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for support of the School of Business Administration                         7,500
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
forgeological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Square D Company, Madison Heights
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Manufactruing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Tenneco Automotive, Deerfield Illinois
pledge payment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, CAD/CAM Laboratory  30,000
Dr. and Mrs. D. Eugene Thompson, Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of Manufacturers National Bank common stock; for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics                                      5,513
TMC Group, Inc., Derry, New Hampshire
for the TMC Merit Scholarship                                                5,508
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  600,000
Union Pacifi Railroad, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          5,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club, Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for alumnae scholarships in the Alumni Association                           7,260
Lee D. van Antwerp Revocable Trust
for the LeeD. and Helen A. van Antwerp Fund in the Clements Library        125,597
Lawrence Van Vlack, Ann Arbor
3,000 shares of Emerson Electric common stock; for the Frances E. Van Vlack Fund,
an addition to a previously established Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering                             106,875
John T. and Helen Vaughan, Lutz, Florida
for support of the Department of Athletics                                  10,000
Lois J. Warden Grosse Pointe
for health services management and policy in the School of Public Health     5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              5,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Rheumatology Laboratory Renovation in the Medical School            12,250
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education, and College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           23,314
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Westinghouse Engineering Deve opment Fund in the College of Engineering  30,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Yamanouchi Research Promotion Award in the Medical School           20,700
Sigmund A. Zawadski, Buffalo, New York
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                               5,000


-114 -



December Meeting, 1989


The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Century Rain Aid, Madison Heights
flowers, trees, and shrubs; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Durr Industries, Inc., Plymouth
a Hewlett-Packard HP-1000 Computer System with related equipment; for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Everest and Jennings Inc., Detroit
two lightweight wheelchairs; for the Division of Physical Therapy, University of Michigan Hospital
Linda K. Fensch, Ann Arbor
a Snark Wildflower sailboat with spinnaker and oars; for the Alumni Association
John Fluke Manufacturing Company, Inc., Everett, Washington
a digital multimeter with interface; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
General Motors Corporation, CPC Engineering Division, Warren
an Apollo pulsed ruby laser and power supply; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School
of Engneering
Grace Prunk,l earborn
a velvet cape and a silk embroidered kimono, both previously owned by Mrs. Henry Ford; for the
Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Personnel Actions
Provost Vest, Chancellor Wilson, and Chancellor Jones submitted personnel
action requests for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses, respectively. On a
motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1990
Stella W. Pang, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective December 18, 1989
Richard W. Weber, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Charles F. Brumfiel, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, Winter term, 1990
George R. Carignan, Interim Associate Dean for Research, Research Engineer, Space Physics Research
Laboratory, and Adjunct Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, College of Engineering,
reappointed Interim Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, for a one-year term,
February 1, 1990
Lynn A. Conway, Associate Dean for Instruction and Intructional Technology and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, reappointed Associate
Dean for Instruction and Intructional Technology, College of Engineering, for a one-year term
Armin E. Good Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period March 1, 1989
Gerald P. Hodge, Professor Emeritus of Medical and Biological Illustration, Medical School, and
Professor Emeritus of Art, School of Art, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
William Kerr, Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering, reappointed to active status, for a seven-month
period October 1 1989
Glenn F. Knoll, Chair and Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, reappointed Chair of the
Department of Nuclear Engineering, for an eight-month term
Warren G. Palmer Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information and Library Studies, reappointed to
active status, Winter term, 1990
Frank B. Womer, Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
-115 -



December Meeting, 1989


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990
Alan G. Billings, Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, appointed Interim Chair of the
Department of Theatre and Drama, for an eight-month term
Virgil W. Cope, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Acting Chair of the
Department of Chemistry, College of Arts and Sciences UM-Flint Winter term, 1990
Beverly A. Jones, Associate Hospital Administrator/Director of Nursing, University of Michigan Hospital
Administration, and Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, appointed Assistant Dean for Clinical
Affairs, School of Nursing, for a three-year term
David E. Kieras, Associate Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Electrical Engineering, Computer and Communication Science, without tenure, Associate
Research Scientist, Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, appointed Associate
Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure for a three-year term
James 0. Wilkes, Arthur F. Thurnau -Professor and Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure,
appointed Assistant Dean for Admissions and Instruction, College of Engineering, for a five-year
term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Medical School Executive Committee
John Greden, for the remainder of the term ending August 31, 1991, vice Robert P. Kelch, resigned
Universiit Musical Society
Carl A. Brauer, for a two-year term, January 1, 1990 - December 31 1991
Rebecca McGowan, for a three-year term, January 1, 1990 - December 31, 1992
John Psarouthakis, reappointed for a three-year term, January 1, 1990 - December 31, 1992
Ann A. Schriber, reappomted for a three-year term January 1, 1990 - December 31, 1992
Herbert Sloan, reappointed for a three-year term, January 1, 1990 - December 31, 1992
Lois Stegeman, for a three-year term, January 1, 1990 - December 31 1992
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., for a one-year term, January 1 - December 31, 1990, vice John W. Reed, term
expired
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Dennis F. Ellis, to serve during promotion and tenure deliberations, January 1 - May 31, 1990
John A. Larson, to serve during promotion and tenure deliberations, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Associate Vice President for Development. The regents approved a change in
the title of Managing Director of Individual Giving to Associate Vice President for
Development and a change in the title of Managing Director of Corporate and
Foundation Relations to Associate Vice President for Development.
The Regents also approved changes in the title of Roy E. Muir from Managing
Director of Individual Giving to Associate Vice President for Development and of M.
Joseph Roberson from Managing Director of Corporate and Foundation Relations to
Associate Vice President for Development, effective December 1, 1989.
Nippon Life Professorship of Law. The Regents approved the establishment of
the Nippon Life Professorship of Law, effective September 1, 1989. Regent Nielsen
requested that Provost Vest report the reason for the retroactive approval of the
professorship.
Ernst & Young Professor in Accounting.            The Regents approved the
appointment of Richard E. Czarnecki as Ernst & Young Professor in Accounting at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn for a five-year term, effective January 1, 1990.


116 -



December Meeting, 1989


Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
College of En neerin
James P. Holloway, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
David A. Ametrano Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Ruby L. Beale, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Medical School
Colin E. Forsyth, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, November 13 1989
Nikolai Rachmaninoff, M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, October 23, i989
College of Pharmacy
George A. Garcia, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Medical School
David J. Doukas, M.D., Assistant Professor of Family Practice, August 30, 1989 (effective date previously
reported as September 1, 1989)
Allan D. Olson M.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
September 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistrv
Donald S. Strachan, from Assistant Dean, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Anatomy, with tenure, Medical School, to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, Medical School
Medical School
Richard A. Axtell, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Stephen G. Emerson, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, February 1, 1989
School of Public Health
Alfred Franzblau, from Assistant Professor of Occupational Medicine to Assistant Professor of
Occupational Medicine and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineerin
Cordelia V. Hall, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, leave without
salary, January 1 - December 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sherry B. Ortner, Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Hilda Hsi-IHuei Tao, Lecturer in Chinese, extended sick leave, December 18, 1989 - January 7, 1990
Robert G. Wetzel, Professor of Biology, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - December 31, 1990
Thomas C. Will, Lecturer in Biology, personal leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990


-117 -



December Meeting, 1989


Medical School
Caroline E. Blane, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1989 -
April 30, 1990
Inta J. Ertel, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
November 15, 1989 - May 14, 1990
Andrew K. Vine, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1989 -
April 30, 1990
UM-Dearbom School of Education
Richard W. Morshead, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30, 1990
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Law School
Frederick F. Schauer, Professor of Law with tenure, contract leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990 (previously
reported as leave without salary)
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Sevem J Borenstein, Assistant Pr    ofessor of Economics and Public Policy, leave without salary,
September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990 (previously reported as September 1 - December 31, 1989)
Paul M. Wortman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary, October 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990 and September 1- December 31, 1990 (previously reported as January 1 - December 31,
1990)
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Amjad Umar, Associate Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, and Associate Professor of
Computer and Information Science, with tenure, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, research
leave, September 1, 1989 - April 30, 1990 (previously reported as September 1 - December 31,
1989)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Richard. Sears, Professor of Art, with tenure
School of Information and Library Studies
Helen L. Snoke, Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure, School of Education
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Charles G. Overberger, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, September 30, 1989
Medical School
Robert P. Gaynes, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, November 12 1989
Claudia Perez-Tamayo, Assistant Professor of Radiation Therapy, November 17 1989
Thomas R. Stevenson, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, November 1i, 1989
School of Natural Resources
Carol A. Jones, Assistant Professor of Natural Resources and Assistant Professor of Economics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1989
School of Nursing
Deborah L. Wierzbinski, Lecturer in Nursing
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure
UM-Flint Colleke of Arts and Sciences
Maria Schindler, Lecturer in Biology, May 31, 1990


-118 -



December Meeting, 1989


Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoirs:
Frederick J. Beutler, professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and professor of
information and control engineering in the Department of Aerospace Engineering,
will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1989.
Professor Beutler received his B.S. and his M.S. degrees in 1949 and 1951,
respectively, both from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He continued his
education at the California Institute of Technology in engineering science and
mathematics, earning his Ph.D. degree in 1957. Before beginning his academic career,
Professor Beutler was employed by General Motors Corporation, the Charles Stark
Draper Laboratory, North American Aviation, and the Ramo-Wooldridge
Corporation. Professor Beutler joined the faculty at the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor in 1957. He was promoted to associate professor in 1959 and
professor in 1963.
In 1957, Professor Beutler was appointed chair of the Computer, Information
and Control Engineering program (CICE). CICE was an interdepartmental graduate
degree program which was jointly sponsored by Aerospace Engineering, Electrical and
Computer Engineering, and Industrial and Operations Engineering. This program
became one of the largest and most successful graduate engineering programs at the
University of Michigan. The program was designed as a concentrated graduate
program for students studying automatic control theory and telecommunications
theory; its purpose was to provide a focus for graduate instruction in the
then-emerging field of digital computation.
During his career at the University of Michigan, Professor Beutler was
responsible for producing a number of Ph.D. students and was recognized as a prolific
writer in technical journals. His research work was recognized by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 1980, when he was elected fellow of
the IEEE based on his contributions to stochastic process theory and its engineering
applications to engineering education. Professor Beutler has continued to develop
mathematical tools for the field of telecommunications. He most recently has been
engaged in problems related to routing and flow control in queueing networks.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering researcher and teacher
for his dedicated service by naming Frederick J. Beutler Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor Emeritus of Information
and Control Engineering.
Robert G. Schafer, professor of history at the University of Michigan-Flint, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1989, after a most productive career
as a teacher, advisor, and scholar.
Professor Schafer received his B.A. degree from the University of Washington in
1947 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California at Berkeley in
1950 and 1953, respectively. Professor Schafer joined the faculty at the University of
Michigan-Flint in 1956 as assistant professor of history. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1961 and to professor in 1966.
Professor Schafer has distinguished himself as a teacher, scholar, and leader at
UM-Flint who has an exemplary service record to the University and community. He
is an expert on the industrial age in England and was one of the first scholars to
introduce computer techniques in historical research. He has lectured at Hunan


-119 -



December Meeting, 1989


Normal University in Changsha, China, and has developed a range of courses on the
history of China and Japan. The community has benefited from his leadership at the
International Institute and the Genesee Historical Society and from his series of
publications dealing with major figures and trends in the history of the Flint area. As
one of our founding faculty, Professor Schafer is to be commended for 32 years of
outstanding commitment to the University of Michigan-Flint.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Robert G. Schafer Professor Emeritus of History.
Richard L. Sears, professor of art, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1989, after a productive career as an artist and teacher.
Professor Sears received his B.A. degree in art from Santa Barbara College in
1949 and his M.A. degree from the University of California at Berkeley in 1951. He
taught drawing and painting at the University of California and the California School
of Fine Arts in San Francisco until 1953, when he joined the faculty of the former
College of Architecture and Design at the University of Michigan as an instructor of
art. A teacher of drawing, painting, and aqueous media in the School of Art, Professor
Sears was promoted to assistant professor in 1957, associate professor in 1965, and
professor in 1970. His dedication to teaching, combined with his rapport with
students, has resulted in influencing students in a highly successful manner.
Professor Sears conducted painting research in Rome as the recipient of a
Rackham Research Grant. Over the years, he also exhibited widely across the
country. His one-man shows included the Santa Barbara Museum in Santa Barbara,
California, and the University of Michigan Museum of Art. Other shows included the
San Francisco Art Association Annual, the Michigan Watercolor Society, Lever House
in New York City, and the Sears Tower in Chicago.
The Regents now salute this distinguished artist and teacher for his
contributions and dedication by naming Richard L. Sears Professor Emeritus of Art.
Helen L. Snoke, professor of information and library studies in the School of
Information and Library Studies and associate professor of education in the School of
Education, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1989.
Professor Snoke received her B.A., M.L.S., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Oklahoma in 1948, 1960, and 1968, respectively. She began her
affiliation with the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in the School of
Information and Library Studies in 1969. She was promoted to associate professor in
1971 and professor in 1977. She received an additional appointment as associate
professor of education in 1971. During the last six months prior to her retirement
furlough, Professor Snoke served as the acting associate dean of the School of
Information and Library Studies.
Nationally known for her contributions in the school media curriculum area,
Professor Snoke's dedication to teaching and the profession have won her the respect
and great admiration of her students and colleagues. Her proven administrative
ability, as shown in many previous capacities such as chair of the school's strategic
planning committee and chair of the dean's search committee, enabled her to provide
invaluable service to the school and the University as she served as second in
command while the dean also served as the interim director of the University libraries.
Her administrative contributions were immeasurable.
Throughout her career, Professor Snoke has also been very active in state and
national professional organizations, having served in major administrative capacities in
the American Library Association, the American Association of School Libraries, the
Association for Library Services to Children, the Michigan Association for Media in


-120 -



December Meeting, 1989


Education, and the Children's Literature Association. Within the University of
Michigan, she has served on the Rackham School of Graduate Studies' executive
board, and has been CRLT Faculty Development Fund Liaison, vice chair of SACUA,
and chair of a grievance board for the School of Nursing.
Professor Snoke played a very significant role in the redirection of the school
during the period of its curriculum revision in the early eighties and provided the
major leadership in the development of the school's planning document. At her
retirement reception, the previous dean, who had worked directly with Professor
Snoke for fifteen years, perhaps summed up her contributions best by noting that "over
and over, Helen has brought honor and distinction to our school through her
dedicated service, from both within the University and from without."
In view of her many accomplishments, the Regents now salute this distinguished
educator by naming Helen L. Snoke Professor Emeritus of Information and Library
Studies and Associate Professor Emeritus of Education.
Joseph E. Sullivan, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1989, after 23 years as a most productive teacher and faculty member.
Professor Sullivan received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from
Purdue University in 1949 and his M.S. degree in mathematics from the University of
Michigan in 1968. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
School of Engineering in 1966 and has been an active faculty member, serving on a
range of committees within the School of Engineering and the campus in general. He
served as interim chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
from 1984-85 and the graduate program coordinator from 1985-89.
Professor Sullivan was instrumental in the establishment of the Professional
Development in Engineering Degree program and acted as the program's director
from 1972-80. Professor Sullivan also was a primary force in the development of new
curricula, the enhancement of laboratories, and improvement of the overall quality of
the electrical and computer engineering department. He was dedicated to the
promotion of professionalism and integrity among students and faculty. He played a
key role in the establishment of a student chapter of IEEE and in the growth of the
campus chapter of Eta Kappa Nu (professional engineering fraternity for students with
outstanding academic standards).
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joseph E. Sullivan
Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Memorials
There were no deaths reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authorities in each case, the Regents
approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists.
Bachelor of Science Degree for Carl Peter Clare. On a motion by Regent
Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents unanimously approved granting of
the Bachelor of Science (Electrical) Degree for Carl Peter Clare, as of June 15, 1925.


-121 -



December Meeting, 1989


Further Diversification of Endowment Assets
Vice President Womack introduced a request that the Board approve allocation
of funds from the University Endowment Fund for alternative investments,
commitment to invest in three new limited partnerships, and specific ratification for
the partnership entered into based on the approval of $3 million for investment in
reorganization investments in June of 1989. The request also contains a "Statement of
Objectives and Guidelines for the Management of Alternative Asset Classes". This
statement sets out the guidelines under which his office would function in looking at
diversification opportunities.
Vice President Womack pointed out that the recommendation calls for
authorized allocations to alternative asset categories to a maximum of 22.5% of the
endowment fund, distributed as 10.0% in real estate, 5.0% in oil and gas, 5.0% in
venture capital, and 2.5% in reorganization investments. However, he emphasized
that these are the absolute maximum percentages that would apply at any one time; it
is unlikely that the University would ever obtain that degree of exposure. Vice
President Womack also noted that tactical asset allocation reserves would be phased
out following approval of investment in the alternative asset categories, because the
function of the former was to reduce volatility, and the alternative asset categories
provide the same outcome.
Following further comments, Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Paul
McGuire, an associate with Cambridge Associates, who gave a presentation about the
technicalities of reorganization, oil and gas, and venture capital investments and spoke
in general terms about Cambridge Associates' recommendations in the area of
alternative investments.
Mr. McGuire, Vice President Womack, and Mr. Herbert then responded to
questions from the Regents about specific details of each proposed investment vehicle.
Regent Roach noted that it is important to recognize that there are risks, but
that diversifying across many different instruments within a particular vehicle and
across several alternative vehicles minimizes the risks. Mr. McGuire noted that the
proposed reorganization investment managers have extensive experience in that type
of investment. Vice President Womack noted that the oil and gas and venture capital
managers (Endowment Energy Partners and Endowment Venture Partners) were
established by the Common Fund, and that they use a multiple manager approach to
minimize risk.
In response to a question from Regent Varner regarding the difference between
these investments and the tactical asset allocation, Vice President Womack noted that
the expected yields of the oil and gas, reorganization, and venture capital investments
exceed the expected returns of any domestic stocks in the next several years. Because
the tactical asset allocations are rooted in the equity markets, their returns would be
limited to the equity market returns.
There was further discussion regarding the track records of the investment
managers under consideration. Then Regent Power summarized the discussion by
saying that it involved two policy issues: First, what overall policy ought the University
to engage in with respect to management of endowment assets? He noted that the
case had been made by the University's investment advisors over the past several


-122 -



December Meeting, 1989


months that the University could increase its total return and reduce its exposure to
risk by diversifying its portfolio in the manner recommended by the investment
advisors and the administration. The second policy question is how the Regents could
be assured that investment in a particular vehicle is within the guidelines and at an
acceptable risk. The latter issue will be addressed with periodic descriptions of the
vehicles and their proposed activities and a discussion of how they would fit within the
observed risk analysis that had been presented in June.
Following further statements from Mr. McGuire, Regent Varner moved, and
Regent Power seconded, the following actions:
1. Authorization for 5 percent of the University Endowment Fund to be
allocated to oil and gas investments, 5 percent to venture capital
investments, and 2.5 percent to reorganization investments.
2. Approval for commitments of $5 million (approximately 1.2% of the
current University Endowment Fund) to Restart Partners, L.P.; $5
million to Endowment Energy Partners, L.P.; and $5 million to
Endowment Venture Partners, L.P.. (The plan is to diversify the
University's investments in each of these asset classes with the
addition of other funds in the near future.)
3. Approval for a $2.5 million commitment to the Whitman Heffernan
Rhein Workout Fund, L.P., in accordance with action #1.
Regent Smith noted that when she first joined the Board, she proposed that the
Board change from a single investment manager to a multiple manager approach, and
initially, this proposal was considered too radical. However, she said that she could
not support the current proposals to invest in oil and gas, venture capital, and
reorganization bonds, because she feels that they are too risky and are not a proper
investment policy for the University.
Regent Roach pointed out that this is an investment vehicle which over a period
of time is expected to provide the same yield as the stock and bond portfolio, but will
provide a hedge against the affects of declines in the stock and bond markets. He said
that the Regents ought to be aware of the risk that any single investment among the
total array of investments of a given manager could end up as a loss, but that overall,
the University will be better off than if it had just taken the conventional approach.
For that reason, he would support the action.
Regent Smith said that she did not think these were reasonable risks; Regent
Roach emphasized that only about 1% of the entire endowment would be used for any
of these vehicles, and that this percentage constituted a reasonable risk.
The vote was then taken, and the motion carried by a vote of six to one, with
Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent
Smith opposed. This constitutes a two-thirds affirmative vote of the Board.
The portion of this action related to commitments to Endowment Energy
Partners, L.P. and Endowment Venture Partners, L.P. falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute because Vice President Womack is serving as a
trustee of Endowment Advisors and Fairfield Advisors. Endowment Advisors is a


-123 -



December Meeting, 1989


companion organization to the Common Fund, and Fairfield Advisors, Inc. is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Endowment Advisors. Fairfield Advisors is the Managing
General Partner of and exercises policy control over Endowment Energy Partners and
Endowment Venture Partners. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contracts are the University of Michigan, and
Endowment Energy Partners, L.P. and Endowment Venture Partners,
L.P., respectively.
2. Terms of the contracts (partnership agreements):
The duration of the contract with Endowment Energy Partners, L.P.
will be until December 31, 1999, unless the term of the partnership is
extended, not more than twice, by the Managing General Partner for
periods not exceeding two years each or until termination prior
thereto pursuant to the provisions of the partnership agreement.
The duration of the contract with Endowment Venture Partners, L.P.
will be until March 31, 2002, unless extended, not more than twice, by
the Managing General Partner for periods not exceeding two years
each or until termination prior thereto pursuant to the provisions of
the partnership agreement.
Financial consideration between the parties: Each partnership will
invest $5 million of University Endowment Fund assets.
Facilities or services of the public entity included in the contract are
that Vice President Farris W. Womack or a University representative
will attend meetings of the Boards and related committees.
3. Vice President Womack has no pecuniary interest in these contracts.
For Endowment Energy Partners, L.P., Endowment Advisors will
receive 0.1% per annum of the funds managed and 0.25% of net
income and profits. For Endowment Venture Partners, L.P.,
Endowment Advisors will not receive a management fee; it will
receive 0.75% of net income and profits. The Endowment Advisors'
net income and profits will basically cover the expenses for both the
Endowment Advisors and Fairfield Advisors.
Reinstatement of Premium Conversion and Medical Expense Reimbursement
Accounts
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that due to the repeal of Section
89 of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the University would reinstate the premium
conversion and medical expense reimbursement plans for employees who were
affected by the act.
Naming the Indoor Practice Facility on the Athletic Campus
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents voted
unanimously to name the indoor practice facility the Bennie Oosterban Field House.


-124 -



December Meeting, 1989


Integrated Technology Instruction Center
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded, that a revised project
budget, from $34 million to $37.4 million, be submitted to the State of Michigan with
the schematic design for the Integrated Technology Instruction Center. Regent Power
noted that this type of cost increase occurs because the state does not have a
disciplined, orderly capital outlay process. Following further discussion about the
necessity for the state to devote funds to capital outlay, the vote was taken and the
motion was unanimously approved.
Josephine J. Friberg Estate, Largo, Florida
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted
unanimously to sell the property located in Largo, Florida, received from the
Josephine J. Friberg Estate, at a price of $61,000, and to execute and deliver a quit
claim deed. Proceeds from this sale will be used for cancer research as designated by
the terms of Mrs. Friberg's bequest.
Hands Across the Campus
Regent Smith moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously
endorsed, participation by the Michigan Student Assembly in "Hands Across the
Campus" on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, January 15, 1990.
Change in Undergraduate Degree Designations for Department of Atmospheric,
Oceanic, and Space Sciences
The Regents unanimously approved the following undergraduate degree
designations in the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences:
Bachelor of Science (Meteorology), Bachelor of Science in Engineering
(Meteorology), and Bachelor of Science (Physical Oceanography).
Hearing Procedures for Resolving Complaints of Violations of the Policy on Freedom
of Speech and Artistic Expression
Professor Jens Zorn and student Cory Dolgon, co-chairs of University Council,
presented a document prepared by University Council with the purpose of
implementing the Policy on Freedom of Speech and Artistic Expression that the
Regents had adopted in July of 1988. (The complete text of this document is
contained in the Regents' Agenda.) Professor Zorn explained how the University
Council had worked as a body to write the procedures and said that the University
Council had proven its viability by virtue of having reached consensus on this
document.
Professor Zorn and Mr. Dolgon then responded to questions about specific
points of the proposed hearing procedures. Following the discussion, President
Duderstadt expressed his "deep appreciation for the extraordinary effort on the part of
members of the Council." He continued that regardless of the fate of bylaw 7.02, he
thought that the Council "should remain in existence and should be used by the
University as a place where students, faculty, and administration can come together in
a candid, honest dialogue that is important to the institution."


-125 -



December Meeting, 1989


Associate Membership in SEMCOG for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Regent Varner moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved associate membership in the Southeastern Michigan Council of
Governments (SEMCOG) for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Membership in the American Medical Women's Association for Joyce Wahr, M.D.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved lifetime membership in the American Medical Women's
Association for Joyce Wahr, M.D.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff
membership.
Comments about Robin Jacoby
President Duderstadt announced that Robin Jacoby, senior executive assistant
to the president, had been appointed Vice President of Radcliffe College. He praised
Dr. Jacoby for the remarkable service and contributions to the University. There was
then a round of applause.
Retirement of Coach Bo Schembechler
President Duderstadt noted that the previous day he had received Coach Bo
Schembechler's decision to step down as head coach of the Michigan football team
following this year's Rose Bowl Game. The president praised Coach Schembechler
for being not only a winning coach, but for symbolizing the integrity, pride, dedication
to excellence, sacrifice, and leadership that characterize the best traditions of
intercollegiate athletics. The president observed that the University is deeply
indebted to Bo Schembechler for everything he has done for the University and for
everything he has come to symbolize about the University.
The president then called on Regent Waters, who moved the following Regents'
Resolution:
Regents Resolution in Honor of Bo Schembechler
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their highest
commendations and deep gratitude to Glenn E. 'Bo" Schembechler as they
acknowledge his decision to retire as head coach of the Michigan football
team.
In his years at Michigan, Bo has come to symbolize the integrity, pride,
dedication to excellence, sacrifice for others, and leadership that characterize
the best tradition of intercollegiate athletics. We will leave it to others and to
history to record the wins and the losses, because as a person he means so
much more to those whose lives he has touched at Michigan. And among
those, none have meant so much to him as the students he has coached, and


-126 -



December Meeting, 1989


shaped, and molded into the teams that have so proudly carried the Michigan
colors to every comer of the land.
Bo's career as a coach is unparalleled. He has carried the mantle of
leadership with a courage and loyalty that have won the admiration of
millions of fans. This remarkable teacher has left an indelible mark on this
University that makes all of the Michigan family proud and grateful.
Thus, do the Regents send their warmest greetings to Bo and Millie
Schembechler and extend their heartfelt thanks to them for all they have given
and for all that they mean to the University of Michigan.
The resolution was approved by acclamation.
Departure of Robin Jacoby
Regent Power observed that this meeting marked Robin Jacoby's last Regents'
Meeting. He noted that he and Sarah Power had known Robin Jacoby for a long time,
and that it was one of Sarah's and one of his great pleasures to work with Robin,
because the "humanity and very great intelligence and common sense that she has
exerted on the conduct of the affairs of this university have been hugely valuable."
The meeting then recessed to enable the participants to move to the Anderson
Room of the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Dona Deman, citizen, about her medical records; and Amy Harmon,
student and member of the Latin American Solidarity Committee, about the policy on
disruption of student activities.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents' travel,
accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of November, 1989
totalled $601.75. The next meeting will take place on January 18 and 19, 1990.
ichardL. Kenndy, Secreta


-127 -



JANUARY MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 18, 1990
Public Comments
The Regents met at 4:00 P.M. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union for
Public Comments. They heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Amy Bowen, student at UM-Dearborn, about the UM-Dearborn athletics
program; Judy Levy, AFSCME bargaining chairperson and Ezra Rowry, member of
AFSCME, about alleged unfair labor practices; Mark Weisbrot, graduate student,
about his experience on the Board of Student Publications; David Makuera, student,
about MSA elections; Ambakisya A. Eberecheuku, UM-Flint public safety officer,
about retaliation and discrimination directed at him; Dona Deman, citizen, about her
chronic fatigue syndrome.
The meeting then recessed until the following day.
Friday, January 19, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Vice President Johnson and Regent Brown were absent.
Minutes
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order. Regent Smith moved, and
Regent Waters seconded, approval of the minutes of the meeting of December, 1989.
Regent Baker observed that he would like to have more information about the
Michigan Partnership for New Education that had been discussed at that meeting.
President Duderstadt replied that he would have Dean Miskel and Provost Vest give a
presentation about this project at the next meeting. Regent Baker supported that
idea. The vote was then taken, and the minutes were approved unanimously.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, and the Report on
Non-Competitive Purchases over $2,000 from Single Sources from October 1 -
December 31, 1989. Regarding the latter, he noted that the amount of purchases
disclosed on this report was the lowest total amount since 1983, and that because of a
deliberate effort, the figure has dropped by $2 million each year since 1987.


-129 -



January Meeting, 1990


Vice President Kelly submitted a report on Summaries of a Selection of Current
Research and Sponsored Projects.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the monthly report of Gifts and Grants. He
noted that there had been a significant increase this year in gift activity. Regent Power
noted that the summary tables of "net new pledges" and "total activity" were very
helpful, and requested that these be included as a regular feature of the gift reports.
The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Albert H. Adams Estate
for the Ross E. and Myrtle M. Adams Fund in the Medical School              16,560
Adray Appliance & Photo Center, Inc., Dearborn
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Judith Dow Alexander, Ann Arbor
86 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock; pledge payment for the School
of Music and support for the Umversity Musical Society                       6,171
Morton L. Allardice, Irvne, California
for the School of Business Administration and the President's Fund           5,000
American Cancer Society, Michigan Division, Lansing
for research in the Medical School                                          13,098
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                186,170
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          12,450
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,448
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                          24,530
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering           16,954
Anjoy Marketing Consultants, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration      6,300
Antimicrobial Therapy, Inc., Richardson, Texas
pledge payment on behalf of Jay P. Sandford for the Swimming and Diving Facility
min the Department of Athletics                                              5,000
Omelan and Tatiana Antonovych, Washington, D.C.
for Ukrainian Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
ARCO Chemical Company, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
for minority programs support in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                        25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                          34,833
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          13,333
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                   10,000
Louis G. Ba daccl, Atherton, California
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  20,000
Barris, Sott Denn & Driker, Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                     5,000
BASF Corporation, Chemicals Division, Parsippany, New Jersey
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     20,720


-130 -



January Meeting, 1990


Virginia T. Beck Estate
for the Raymond A. and Virginia T. Beck Scholarship in the Medical School    25,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust, Fenton
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Begole-Brownell Fund, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Roy E. Brownell Music Scholarship       5,000
Hal T. Benham, Jr., Revocable Trust, Marco Island, Florida
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  15,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship, and for the Michigan Historical
Collections                                                                  14,827
Berberian-Gazarian Family Charitable Foundation, Modesto California
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program             6,000
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics, and
support for the College of Engineering                                       17,000
George E. Bisbee, Clark Lake
500 shares of CB Financial Corporation common stock; pledge payment for the
Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                       11,375
Bixby Foundation, Detroit
for support of the School of Business Administration, the Colleges of Engineering,
and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Department of Athletics        7,500
Bo Enterprises, Inc., Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Norman R. Bodine, Birmingham
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in Physics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 15,000
Boeing Company, Seattle Washington
for the Boeing Fellowships and Scholarships, and the Minority Program in the
College of Engineering                                                       12,000
Richard L Boger, Atlanta, Georgia
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Lola J. Borchardt, Ann Arbor
for the Jack A. Borchardt Fellowship in the College of Engineering            5,000
Jessie L. Boyce Estate
for the Jonathan Boyce Scholarship                                          185,873
BP America Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          20,000
Floydene B. Brownlee Bloomtield Hills
in memory of bonald S. Brownlee, for the Sports Service Building and other support
in the Department of Athletics; and for support of the Michigan League       18,000
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,000
Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac Group, Warren
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award Programs in the School of Business
Administration, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts         25,035
Mildred Butler, Sherwood, Oregon
5,100 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the Mildred Butler Fund, a
Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the University of
Michigan                                                                    123,513
Richard J. Caldarazzo, Oak Brook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Will M. Caldwell, West Bloomfield
2,614 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock; for the Will and Jeanne
Caldwell Scholarship in Women's Track, and cash gift of $15,000 for the
Sports Service Buildm ing the Department of Athletics                       129,853
Paul B. Campbell, Lakewood, Ohio
for support of the School of Business Administration and the Law School       5,000
Kathryn L. Carl, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Kathryn L. Carl Scholarship            10,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                    31,500
Julia L. Certain Estate
for the Julia Lockwood Fund for Research and Publication, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       370,797


-131 -



January Meeting, 1990


David G. Chardavoyne, Farmington Hills
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Chevron UI.SA. Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                              17,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          11,669
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  5,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 11,098
Coin-op Specialists, Inc., Adrian
for support of the College of Engineering                                   10,000
Marlin Cole and Connie Belin Charitable Foundation Des Moines, Iowa
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                            20,000
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for the development of a joint Master's Degree Program in the Schools of Business
Administration and Nursing                                                  25,000
L. Thomas Conlin, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
George R. Corey, Millbrae, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000
Charles P. Cousland, Brookfield, Wisconsin
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                       5,000
Arthur Lyon Cross Trust
1,600 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the Arthur Lyon Cross Fund  78,156
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  8,700
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                          95,647
Cystinosis Foundation, Piedmont, California
for research in the Medical School                                           8,690
Roger David, Grand Rapids
first payment on a pledge of $150,000 for the School of Business Administration  50,000
DeKalb Genetics Foundation, DeKalb, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,000
John L. and Rose Mary Denniston, Winnetka, Illinois
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit
for the Helen DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School                18,000
Mrs. Archibald W. Diack, Jr., Portland, Oregon
150 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock; for the Frederick G. Novy
Fellowship in Microbiology, in the Medical School                           10,228
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, and for
the Department of Athletics                                                  9,688
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Thomas S. Monaghan Funds in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, and for the Sports Service Building in the Department of
Athletics                                                                  122,000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York New York
pledge payment for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                         5,000
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
pledge payments for the Wiley T. Buchanan Research Fund in the Medical School,
and For the Chemical Sciences Facilities in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                               800,000
Dunnings Foundation, Inc., Lansing
Tor the Alden J. "Butch" Carpenter Scholarship in the Law School, and for the
Martin Luther King Scholarship                                               5,000
Warren R. Dwyer, Brunswick, Maine
for the Humanities Program in the College of Literature Science and the Arts, the
Wallenberg Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of 6raduate Studies,
and for the Museum of Art                                                    7,500


-132 -



January Meeting, 1990


Richard Earhart, Leland
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration, the
Richard Earhart Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                            150,000
William G. Earle, Key Biscayne, Florida
for the Ruth D. and George N. Earle - Deans Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           10,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Undergraduate Scholarships                            61,181
John R. Edman, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Virginia J. Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida
ledge payment for the School of Information and Library Studies, and gift for the
Elements Library                                                            93,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Associates Program and the Student Loan Fund in the School of Business
Administration                                                               6,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 11,925
Federal-Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Federal Mogul Fund, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                               5,250
Oscar H. Feldman, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Oscar H. Feldman Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Finlayson, Ponte Vedra, Florida
for the Robert M. and Louise S. Finlayson Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              10,000
Max M. Fisher, Detroit
pledge payment for the University of Michigan Hospital                      25,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   6,000
FMC Corporation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the FMC Fund in the College of Engineering                               8,000
Athanas P. Fontaine Estate
for the Arline McGrath Fontaine Memorial Fund in the School of Nursing      98,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Public Policy Studies, and in the Institute for
Social Research                                                            145,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Fund  10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 66,073
Ford Motor Company, Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for the Ford Fellowship Grant in the College of Engineering, and for research in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,                               40,000
Walter & Josephine Ford Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Fund  10,400
Helene Fuld Health Trust, New York, New York
for research in the School of Nursing                                       50,000
General Dynamics, St. Louis, Missouri
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                              26,525
General Electric Company, Schenectady New York
for the General Electric Plastics Fellowship in the College of Engineering  17,500
Genesis Foundation, Winnetka Illinois
pledge payments on behalf of Michael J. Callahan for support of the School of
Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Law School and the College of Engineering, and pledge payment for capital
support in the School of Business Administration                           520,000
Clifton S. Goddin, Jr., Tulsa, Oklahoma
4,565 mutual fund shares of the Eaton Vance Growth Fund; for the Clifton A.
Goddin Chemical Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering       37,249
Paul G. Goebel, Jr., Grand Rapids
Pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000


-133 -



January Meeting, 1990


Paul Goebel Group, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts   10,100
Thomas A. Goss, Bloomfield
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Eugene M. Grant & Company, New York, New York
pledge payment for the Judaic Studies Development Fund and other support in the
ollege of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for unrestricted support of
the University of Michigan                                                   46,000
Lazar J. Greenfield, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Medical School                                         5,000
Lois F. Grierson Estate
for the Shirley Titus Scholarship in the School of Nursing                   10,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Grumman Corporation, Bethpage New York
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  15,325
Richard N. Harper, Jr., Birmingham
4,926 shares of Chrysler Corporation common stock; for the Richard N. and Betty
Grace Harper Fund, a Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Business Administration                                        94,210
Ruth W. Harris Ann Arbor
for the Ruth W. Harris Scholarship in the Division of Physical Education     10,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          191,544
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
For research in the Schools of Medicine and Social Work                      10,924
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for support of the Medical School                                           200,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources                             100,000
Douglas N. Higgins, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                       5,000
Jerry L. Hill Trust, Battle Creek
for the Linda S. Awrey Scholarship in the School of Business Administration, and for
the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                    6,000
David Alan Hughes, Omaha Nebraska
pledge payment for the Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowship in the Medical School  10,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  30,300
Edward A. Hulbert, Pompano Beach, Florida
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                        5,000
Mr. and Mrs. E. Richard Hurst, Madeira, Ohio
300 shares of Alltel Corporation common stock; for the Department of Athletics,
and for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                   11,531
James W. Huttenlocher, Clarkston
first payment on a pledge of $50,000 for the Risk Management Professorship in the
School of Business Administration                                             8,971
Richard P. Huttenlocher, Clarkston
first payment on a pledge of $50,000 for the Risk Management Professorship in the
School of Business Administration                                            10,000
Imperial Chemical Industries, London, England
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   19,985
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
Pledge payment on behalf of Bertram J. Askwith, for unrestricted support of the
University of Michigan                                                       40,000
Infusaid Corporation, Norwood, Massachusetts
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
International Bio-Synthetics, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Nursing                             5,000
Marc Jacobson, Norfolk, Virginia
pledge payment for the Marc and Constance Jacobson Lectureship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            13,000


-134 -



January Meeting, 1990


Ira J. Jaffe, Detroit
pledge payments for the Benjamin D. and Ann Jaffe Memorial Scholarship in the
Law-School, and for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  6,800
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           5,090
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology  5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and faculty development programs in the Medical School        402,500
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Detroit
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    25,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School                                          20,250
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          16,825
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Public Health                                 82,637
Mrs. Lewis D. Kaufman, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company Inc., common stock; for the Lewis D. and
Stella Kaufman Fund in the Institute of Gerontology                          5,350
Robert and Beverly Keicher, Midland
for the Connie Keicher Memorial Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music  19,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning the School of
Information and Library Studies, and the School of Music; and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                              28,449
Mrs. James A. Kennedy, Montecito, California
for support of the Alumni Association CA.M.P. Building Fund, and the University
Musical Society                                                             12,000
KL Spring and Stamping Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment on behalf of Jerry Capizzi for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Company, Grand Rapids
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
Lacks Industries, Inc., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Lilly Endowment Inc., Indianapolis Indiana Indiana
for the Lilly Endowment Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy               30,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the M. B. Landers Sr., Memorial Fund and the Russell N. DeJong Professorship
in the Medical School                                                       30,000
Loews Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payments on behalf of Preston R. Tisch for the University of Michigan
Hospital and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics     22,500
Walter Lorenz, Jacksonville, Florida
pledge payment for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry  5,000
Walter Lorenz Surgical Instruments Inc., Jacksonville, Florida
pledge payment for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry  10,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for fellowships and research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  374,000
Robert P. Luciano, New Vernon New Jersey
200 shares of Schering-Piough Corporation, common stock; pledge payment for the
Robert P. Luciano Endowment in the Law School                               16,675
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                             114,727
John W. Madigan, Winnetka, Illinois
400 shares of Tribune Company common stock; for the Sports Service Building in
the Department of Athletics                                                 18,550
Bernard L. Madoff, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                      5,000
Henry S. and Margaret Maentz, Holland
for Scholarships and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  6,200
Thomas Scott Maentz, Birmingham
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  20,000


-135 -



January Meeting, 1990


Emanuel N. Maisel Marital Trust Detroit
pledge payments for the Emanuel N. Maisel Funds in the Medical School     600,000
Mr. and-Mrs. Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham
1500 shares of Myland Laboratories Inc., common stock; for the College of
Engneering, and the Department of Athletics                                36,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Manoogan Chair in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  15,000
March of Dimes Birth-Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         85,000
Marion Laboratories, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
pledge payment for the Marion Laboratories Educational Fund, and research
support in the College of Pharmacy                                         15,000
Matthaei Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             5,000
Paul W. McCracken Ann Arbor
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Margaret M. McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music          10,000
Neil McKay, Geneva, Illinois
pledge payment for scholarships in the Law School                           5,000
Agnes C. McKa Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                   9,817
Paul L. B. McKenne, Huntington Woods
200 shares of General Electric Company common stock; for unrestricted support of
the Law School                                                             12,875
James 0. McNamee, Elkhart, Indiana
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Edwin E. and Mary U. Meader, Parchment
6,758 shares of the Upjohn Company common stock; for unrestricted support of the
School of Music                                                           247,089
Meijer, Inc. Grand Rapids
pledge payment for capital support in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
first payment on a pledge of $150,000 for the Merck, Sharp & Dohme Fellowship in
the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts                   50,550
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School                     40,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 8,657
Miller & Chevalier Charitable Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for the Law School Alumni Scholarship, in memory of James F. Gordy          5,000
Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri
for research m the Institute of Science and Technology, and for the University of
Michigan-Flint, William R. Murchie Memorial Fund                           52,000
Philip Morris Iompames, Inc., New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 6,900
Cruse W. and Virginia A. Moss, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                    20,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
pledge payment for the University of Michigan Hospital, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                            408,200
John Muirhead Foundation Dearborn
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Fund  5,000
John S. Munn, South Bend, Indiana
for the John S. and Suzanne C. Munn Fund in the Medical School            150,000
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
Sledge payment for the William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Endowment in the
chool of Dentistry                                                        200,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research m the Medical School                                          21,347
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering                                 22,912
Clifford T. Nelson Estate
for the Clifford T. Nelson Fund in the School of Dentistry                100,000
Henry H. and Nancy S. Newlin, Tecumseh
first payment on a pledge of $150,000 for the Henry H. and Nancy S. Newlin
Women's Basketball Scholarship, and gift for the Sports Service Building,
Department of Athletics                                                    22,500


-136 -



January Meeting, 1990


Ann Landwirth Nickoll, Beverly Hills, California
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Humanities Institute in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of Daniel Landwirth Nickoll     10,000
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corporation, Tokyo Japan
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   20,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington Hills Illinois
250 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company common stock; for unrestricted
support of the Law School                                                     5,344
Irene F. (estrike, Indianapolis, Indiana
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering, in memory of Wilfred C.
Oestrike                                                                      5,000
John J. O'Leary, Green Valley, Arizona
pledge payments for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Medical School                                          5,000
Alice M. Orr, Gallipolis, Ohio
for the CA.M.P. Building Fund in the Alumni Association                       5,000
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for support of the College of Engineering                                    30,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           16,962
Osterman Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted capital support of the University of Michigan  5,000
Barbara Standish Patten Estate
for the Bradley M. Patten Memorial Fund in the Medical School, and for support
of the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital                                       150,228
D. Ann Pearson, San Francisco, California
pledge payment for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
for the Medsport Program, the University of Michigan Hospitals               14,600
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald L. Piasecki, Spring Lake
first payment on a pledge of $1S0,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      20,000
Mr. Albert-P. Pickus. Cleveland, Ohio
146 shares of CMS Energy Corporation common stock; pledge payments for the
Alumni Association, the Department of Athletics, and the School of Music      5,165
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy                        45,000
Vernon Glen Poest Trust, Spring Lake
for support of the Department of Athletics the Colleges of Engineering, and
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the President's Fund               5,250
Arthur C. Prine, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
5,082 shares of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock; for the Arthur
Prine Fund, a Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the
Law School                                                                  248,676
Leona G. Probst Estate
for the Jesse W. and Leona G. Probst Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       120,000
Harry D. Reber, Jr., Green Valley, Arizona
615 shares of Guardsman Products common stock; for the Harry D. and Mary L.
Reber Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Contribution for the ultimate benefit of
the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts          11,839
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust Grand Rapids
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      6,946
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           45,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills California
for the John Rich Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York New York
for population research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  36,405
Richard H.Rogel, West Bloomfield
first payment on a pledge of $ 150,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics, and gift for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration                                                      40,000
Margaret Curry Rorke, Saginaw
pledge payments for support of the Schools of Music and Law                  10,000
Leonard Rosenzweig, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                                5,000


-137 -



January Meeting, 1990


Jonathan Rye, Birmingham
first payment on apledge of $100,000 for the School of Business Administration  20,000
Russell Sage Foundation, NewYork, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                           12,646
Salwill Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Gary S. Sandall, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Mr. and-Mrs. Richard N. Sarns, Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Department of Athletics, the bivision of
Physical Education, the President's Fund, the University Musical Society, and
WUOM/WVGR                                                                   30,060
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin
pledge payments for the Plough Scholarship, and the Building Fund in the College
of Pharmacy                                                                 95,000
Marian A. Schilling, Dexter
for the Marian A. Shilling Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Fund Contribution for the
ultimate benefit of the Sarah Wman Newman Endowment in the Medical School   20,000
Jane Schmidt, Bear Lake
for support of the Michigan League                                          10,000
John J. Schmldt, La Jolla, California
for the Sharon L. Schmidt Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music, in memory
of Miriam Homer Schmidt                                                     10,000
Mary S. Scovill Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       6,659
Benson P. and Norma L. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
for unrestricted support of the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature, Science, and
the Arts. and for Scholarships for Minority Students                        20,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena California
pledge payments and other support for the Schools of Business Administration and
Music, and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics      215,000
Philip A. Singleton Amherst, Massachusetts
for the Arthur B. Singleton Award in the College of Engineering              6,250
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  13,646
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowship in the Medical School;
and gifts for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the University of
Michigan Hospital                                                           10,200
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          24,001
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                         113,325
Peter 0. and Patricia 0. Steiner, Ann Arbor
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Peter 0. Steiner Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Foundation, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Memorial Scholarship               8,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Port Huron
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            7,500
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Esther C. Stone Fund                   9,548
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
900 shares of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. common stock; for the Victor L. Streeter
Fellowship in the College of Engineering                                     6,750
Tandy Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas
forTEmployee Matching Gifts                                                  5,000
Taubman Charitable Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Program in American Institutions, College of Literature,
cience, and the Arts                                                      100,000
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York New York
pledge payments for the University of Michigan Hospitals and the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics                                     22,500
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lemuel L. Laing Fellowship in the School of Business Administration  7,000


-138 -



January Meeting, 1990


Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Music, and the Michigan League                 20,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Wiley T. Buchanan Research Fund, the Norman F. Miller
Chair, and the F. Bruce Fralick Endowed Professorship in the Medical School;
for the chemical sciences facility in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts; and for the University Musical Society                               295,000
George F. and Lenore G. Travis, Lincoln, Massachusetts
for the Charles H. Gessner Doctoral Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               5,000
Robert P. Ufer, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
United Technol oges Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,700
Ella McCollum Vahlteich Estate
for the Ella McCollum Vahlteich Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy   433,616
George F. Valassis, Bloomfield Hills
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     20,000
Ann T. Van Rosevelt Trust, Ann Arbor
133 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock; for the Kelsey Museum
Associates Fund                                                             10,441
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northbrook, Illinois
150 shares of Pfizer Inc. common stock; for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     10,153
Oakley C. Walker Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      71,746
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois
pledge payments for the School of Business Administration, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                              7,000
Ronald 0. and Margaret A. Warner, Flint
400 shares of Nucor Corporation common stock, for support of the University of
Michigan-Flint; and 100 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock, for
the Ronald 0. and Margaret A. Warner Fund an additional contribution to a
previously established Charitable Remainder Unitrust, for the ultimate benefit
of the School of Social Work                                                30,331
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                          32,700
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 12,195
Earl W. Webb Estate
for support of the Clements Library                                          7,854
Mark William Werner, Cincinnati, Ohio
first payment in a pledge of $20,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                      5,000
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics      10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest Iflinois
pledge payment for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration                                                   5,000
Wetlands Research, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering                                   5,000
Steven R. White Trust, Grosse I e
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Max Edward Wildman Lake Bluff, Illinois
100 shares of Nynex Corporation common stock; pledge payment for the Harrold,
Allen, and Dixon Wildman Scholarship in the Law Sciool                       8,419
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Inc., Great Neck, New York
for the A. Bartlett Giamatti Scholars Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                32,500
Colonel and Mrs. Ernest A. H. Woodman, Ann Arbor
For the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
World Heritage Foundation Southgate
first payment on a pledge o $150,000 for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     30,000
S. K. Yee Foundation New York New York
for support of the Law School                                               50,000


-139 -



January Meeting, 1990


Mrs. Jack Y. H. Yuen, Chula Vista, California
100 shares of American International Group, Inc. common stock; for the Allan F.
Smith Scholarship in the Law School                                         10,612
Chris J. D. Zarafonetis, Ann Arbor
for biostatistics support in the School of Public Health                     5,000
Stanley Zax, Beverly Hills, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  10,000
Smilka Zdravkovska, Ann Arbor
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in
memory of Allen L. Shields                                                   5,000
Roy H. Ziegler Ann Arbor
for the koy H. Ziegler Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                             10,000
W. Tom Zur Schmiede Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for tax policy research in the School of Business Administration            10,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
A. C. Rochester Division, General Motors Corporation Flint
50,000 JCPDS Cards and two storage cabinets; for the University of Michigan-Flint, Department
of Physics and Engineering Science
Adaptive Wheel Chairs, Inc., Detroit
wheelchair cushions; for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
a three-dimensional model of the original Ford yacht, with glass case; for the Henry Ford Estate at
Fair Lane
Casio, Timepiece Division, Dover, New Jersey
50 Casio watches; for the School of Nursing
Bernard and Joan Chodorkoff Drayton Plains
four pieces of studio glass artwork by contemporary artists; for the University of MichiganDearborn
Coherent, Inc., Palo Alto, California
a 599-OEM laser with special output optic, and a PY2 optics set; for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Dominic L. Degiusti, Harper Woods
nine American Optical series 150, compound microscopes with carrying cases, and a Bolex Reflex
movie camera with accessories; for the Biological Station at Pellston
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
a methanol vehicle used in conjunction with the Methanol Marathon Race; for the Walter E. Lay
Automotive Laboratory
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
a Vestra Computer and six work stations, a portable spectrum analyzer and related equipment, a
network analyzer and related components, and a Sweet oscillator mainframe and related
equipment; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Marie J. Kish, Ann Arbor
a collection of historical-geographical materials from the estate of Dr. George Kish; for the
Clements Library
Mirium Melton, Palm Harbor, Florida
an electric wheelchair and support systems; for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Catherine M. Molnar, Ann Arbor
an anonymous, Samoan chiefs cape, late 19th century; for the Museum of Art
Jane Martin Pyfie, Annapolis, Maryland
four 19th century, Oriental textile pieces; for the Museum of Art
Saguaro Interior Landscaping, Whitmore Lake
plants and plant maintenance; for the Don Canham Natatorium
Norman and Wilma Scott, Jackson
a 1970 Rebel sailboat with sails and trailer; for Camp Michigania
Signal TechnologyI Inc., Goleta, California
office furniture; for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Anne St. Clair Wright, Annapolis Maryland
a quilted mola textile made by the Cuna Indians of Panama; for the Museum of Anthropology


-140 -



January Meeting, 1990


Personnel Actions
Provost Vest pointed out several significant personnel appointments, including
the appointment of Mary Ann Swain as Interim Vice President for Student Services,
Henry Johnson as Vice President for Community Affairs, and John P. Weidenbach as
Interim Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. Regent Baker requested that any
personnel changes recommended as part of Professor Swain's assignment be brought
to the Regents for approval.
Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Wilson noted several personnel
changes, including the establishment of the position of Associate Provost and the
appointment of Michael J. Schneider to that position for a period of 18 months. There
followed some discussion about the need for this position on the Dearborn campus.
Chancellor Wilson pointed out that it was the norm for campuses the size of
UM-Dearborn to have associate provosts. She also noted that a parallel position in
the office of student affairs had been eliminated in order to create this position. Thus,
this action represents only a reorganization, with no net increase in administrative
positions.
Regent Power suggested that Chancellors Wilson and Jones be invited to lead a
discussion at an upcoming Regents' Meeting about the administrative structures on
their respective campuses. Following further discussion, Regent Varner moved,
Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, the following
Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Victor C. Li, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, January 1 1990
Subrata Sengupta, Dean of the School of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1990
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 19, 1990
William F. Armstrong III, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Daniel E. Atkins III, Interim Dean and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
reappointed Interim Dean of the College of Engineering, for an eight-month term
Thomas J. LDeKornfeld, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of Postgraduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Ivan F. Duff, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Armin E. Good Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period, March 1, 1990
Wilfred Kaplan, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics reappointed to active status, Winter term, 1990
James A. McLean, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicme, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period
Thomas D. Rowe, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacy, reappointed to active status
Thomas M. Sawyer, Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, reappointed to active status,
University year, 1989-90
Aaron M. Stern, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period, December 1, 1989


141 -



January Meeting, 1990


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Donald J. Bord, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, appointed Interim Chair of
the Department of Natural Sciences, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, for an
eight-month term
Robert D. Fogel, Associate Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Associate Curator of Fungi at the
Herbarium, College of Literature Science, and the Arts, appointed Associate Professor of Natural
Resources, without tenure, School of Natural Resources, for a five-year term
Don P. Haefner, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, appointed Acting
Chair of the Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public Health,
Winter term, 1990
James S. Jackson, Associate Dean for Graduate Student Recruitment and Retention, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Research Scientist, Institute for Social Research, and Faculty Associate, Institute of
Gerontology appointed Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure,
School of Public Health, for a five-year term
Henry Johnson, from Vice President for Student Services to Vice President for Community Affairs, for a
five-year term, March 1, 1990
Judith Reitman Olson2 Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, appointed Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michael J. Schneider, Professor of Biology and Chair of the Department of Natural Sciences, College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, appointed Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn, for an
18-month term
Ann L. Stoler, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, appointed Associate Professor of
History, without tenure, February 1, f990
Mary Ann P. Swain, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of Nursing, appointed
Interim Vice President for Student Services, for a two-year term, March 1, 1990
John P. Weidenbach, from Associate Director of Athletics to Interim Director of Athletics, for a twoyear term, March 1, 1990
The following committee appointments were approved:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc.
Rosalie A. Edwards, reappointed for a three-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1992
Harlan Hatcher, reappointed for a one-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1990
Richard L. Kennedy reappointed for a three-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1992
Jerry A. May, for a three-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1,1992, vice John H. D'Arms, term
expired
Helen A. Peters, for a three-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1992, vice Joel S. Berger, term
expired
James S. eece, for a three-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1992, vice Arnold P. Aronson,
term expired
Thomas J. Schriber, reappointed for a three-year term October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1992
Allan F. Smith, reappointed for a one-year term, Octoer 31, 1989 - November 1, 1990
Estelle Titiev, reappointed for a three-year term, October 31, 1989 - November 1, 1992
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Sheldon H. Danziger, for the Winter term, 1990, vice Frank J. Yates, on sabbatical leave
Arthur Young Professor of Accounting. The Regents approved a change in the
name of the Arthur Young Professor of Accounting to the Ernst & Young Professor of
Accounting, effective January 1, 1990.
Ernst & Whinney Professor of Accounting. The Regents approved a change in
the name of the Ernst & Whinney Professor of Accounting to the Ernst & Young
Professor of Accounting, effective January 1, 1990.
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence. The Regents
approved the appointment of Bernard A. 0. Williams as the James B. and Grace L.
Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence, for the period of March 26 through March 30, 1990.


-142 -



January Meeting, 1990


Vice President for Community Affairs. The Regents approved the establishment
of the position of Vice President for Community Affairs, effective March 1, 1990.
Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn. The Regents approved the establishment of
the position of Associate Provost at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, effective
January 1, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990
Medical School
Edward L. Stuenkel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
College of En ineerin
Bruce H. Karnopp, from Assistant Dean and Associate Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, to
Associate rofessor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, September 1, 1989
Medical School
Ira Gantz, from Lecturer to Instructor in Surgery, November 5, 1989
Susan M. Miller, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, December 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Colleee of Enaineerinn
Romesh Saigal, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, personal leave,
January 1-May 31, 1990
Douglas G. Talley, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, leave without
salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alfred C-T Wu, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Medical School
Arnold G. oran, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Department of Surgery, and Professor of Surgery,
without tenure, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, duty off campus,
December 26, 1989- February 3 1990
Donald A. Ross, Assistant Professor of Surgery, duty off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1990
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Public Health
James E. Martin, Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Collee of Enineering
Joseph Datsk o, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Law School
Eric Stein, Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Emeritus of Law


-143 -



January Meeting, 1990


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Thorne Lay, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure
Jeffrey D. Palmer, Associate Professor of Molecular Genetics, with tenure
Medical School
Emily A. Diltz, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, December 11, 1989
Philhps H. Winter, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology
Retirement Memoirs
Provost Vest submitted retirement memoirs for two faculty members. The
Regents noted Charles Overberger's distinguished service as Vice President for
Research and his leadership in securing approval for construction of the new Dow
Chemistry Facility. On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the
Regents voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Joseph Datsko, professor of mechanical engineering in the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1989.
Professor Datsko received his B.S.E. degree (mechanical engineering) in 1943
and his M.S.E. degree (industrial engineering) in 1952, both from the University of
Michigan. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1943-45. From 1946-49, and again from
1952-53, Professor Datsko was manager and vice president of the Stevens
Manufacturing Company. In 1953, Professor Datsko was named assistant professor at
the University of Michigan. He was promoted to associate professor in 1956 and to
professor in 1963.
Professor Datsko's expertise lies in the mechanical properties of materials,
strength analysis, and the manufacturing processes of welding, forming, and
machining. His research has resulted in an innovative computer-aided
design/computer-aided manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software package that enables
engineers to optimize a design with respect to material selection and geometric
configuration. This software is based on the mechanical properties of materials as
well as the welding, machining, and forming processes. In honor of his work, Professor
Datsko received the 1979 Senior Research Fellowship from the Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science. Professor Datsko has served as chair and secretary of the
research committee on metal processing of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers (ASME). He is also a member of the American Foundry Society, Phi
Lambda Upsilon, Sigma Xi, the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE),
the American Welding Society (AWS), and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers
(SME).
Throughout his career, Professor Datsko has been a dedicated educator in
production and manufacturing engineering, both at the university level and in
continuing engineering education. He has shown a keen interest in improved teaching
methods, has developed and expanded several manufacturing courses, and has
prepared supplementary laboratory manuals, readings, and videotape demonstrations
which have significantly improved the curriculum. In addition, he has authored one
textbook and two chapters for an engineering handbook.
Professor Datsko was instrumental in reactivating the University of Michigan's
chapter of SME; he has served as faculty advisor to this group and to the student
section of ASME. In 1980, SME recognized his contributions by selecting him as
Outstanding Student Chapter Faculty Advisor. Professor Datsko's commitment to a
quality engineering education is also evidenced by his service on a number of


-144 -



January Meeting, 1990


departmental committees, and by his having served as the manufacturing option
advisor, the Manufacturing System Engineering Program counselor, and as an
undergraduate and graduate counselor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Joseph
Datsko Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
Charles G. Overberger, professor of chemistry, special assistant to the president,
and former vice president for research, retired from active faculty status on September
30, 1989.
Professor Overberger received his B.S. degree from Pennsylvania State
University in 1941 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois in 1944. After
completing a postdoctoral fellowship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
1946, he was appointed assistant professor at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. In
1951, Professor Overberger was named professor of chemistry and associate director
of the Polymer Research Institute at Brooklyn Poly; he went on to serve as chair of the
chemistry department from 1955-63 and as dean of science and director of the
Polymer Research Institute from 1964-67.
Professor Overberger came to the University of Michigan in 1967 as professor
and chair of the chemistry department. While serving as chair, he founded the
Macromolecular Research Center and served as its director for 20 years. In 1972,
Professor Overberger was named vice president for research, a position he held until
1983. During that time, he managed to maintain an active research program, continue
to publish and lecture, and to teach a graduate course in polymer chemistry. He will
always be remembered for his dedication to polymer education and research.
Professor Overberger and his research group have concentrated on the synthetic
chemistry of polymers and the factors which control the conformations of polymers in
solution. His group has been in the forefront of the design and synthesis of
asymmetric polymer networks related to protein/polymer chemistry and nucleic
acid/polymer chemistry interactions. The Overberger group has also pioneered
synthetic polymer studies for probing the relationships between structure and
conformation in asymmetric helical polyamides. These efforts have led to an
understanding of basic conformational and structural principles of biopolymers.
Professor Overberger has served as president of the American Chemical
Society, of the Chemistry Section of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science and of the Macromolecular Division of the International Union of Pure and
Applied Chemistry. He has also served as member or chair of numerous other boards,
committees, and professional associations. In addition, Professor Overberger edited
three scholarly journals and serves on the advisory boards Polymer News,
Macromolecules and of Organic Preparations & Procedures, International. He holds
three honorary degrees and has received a number of awards for his leadership and
service to the field of polymer chemistry.
The Regents now salute this dedicated scientist, educator, and administrator by
naming Charles G. Overberger Professor Emeritus of Chemistry and Vice President
Emeritus for Research.
Degrees
On the recommendations of the appropriate authorities in each case, the
Regents voted unanimously to approve changes in previously approved degree lists.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, they also unanimously
approved recommendations for recipients of honorary degrees.


-145 -



January Meeting, 1990


Operating Statements for WFUM-FM, WFUM-TV, and WUOM/WVGR
The Regents received operating statements for WFUM-FM, WFUM-TV, and
WUOM/WVGR for fiscal year 1988/89.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1989
Regent Power moved approval of the audited financial reports for the
University's public broadcasting radio and television stations. Regent Varner
seconded the motion.
Regent Baker asked whether the amount of money budgeted for development
for WFUM-TV for 1989/90 would be made up in revenues received as a result of that
expense. Walter Harrison, Executive Director for University Relations, explained that
the $242,123 budgeted for development is expected to raise about $734,000. This is
consistent with the industry-wide average cost of 33 cents for each dollar raised. He
explained that the cost equals the administrative cost plus the cost for programming
used during fundraising campaigns.
Regent Baker inquired about the market value of WFUM-TV. Mr. Gordon
Lawrence, Director of Broadcast and Media Resources for Public Television at
UM-Flint, said that this is difficult to determine because WFUM-TV is a
non-commercial station. Regent Baker requested that this information be obtained.
Regent Roach noted that there had been a 25% fall-off in contributions to
WUOM/WVGR for the first six months of the fiscal year, and wondered if the deficit
was turning around. Mr. Harrison explained that the past year had been one of
transition, in which the station had made a number of programming changes that it
believes will ultimately lead to an increase in the number of listeners. For the short
term, this strategy had the effect of reducing the contributions. However, he noted
that the audience share in the Detroit area had increased by 48% in the fall of 1989. It
is hoped that the new listeners will eventually become contributors.
There was further discussion about the status of WUOM/WVGR. The Regents
expressed concern about the stations' projection of a negative fund balance for the
current fiscal year. Vice President Womack responded that management had made a
considered judgement that the deficit will only be temporary, and will lead to the
stations' becoming profitable.
Following further discussion, the Regents voted unanimously to adopt the
audited financial reports.
University of Michigan Hospitals Maternal and Child Health Center Shelled Space
The Regents received information about the awarding of contracts for
completion of the Maternal and Child Health Center Shelled Space Project.
University of Michigan Hospitals Medical Procedures Unit
The Regents received information about the awarding of one of the contracts
for construction of the Medical Procedures Unit.


-146 -



January Meeting, 1990


Renovation/Maintenance Projects
Vice President Womack described several projects for which approval was being
requested. These include the addition of a fourth chiller to University of Michigan
Hospitals, replacement of the remaining windows in the E.H. Kraus Building, Frieze
Building renovation, classroom renovations in various central campus buildings,
asbestos removal, and a number of special maintenance projects to be funded with
state appropriation for 1989-90.
There was some discussion about use of the general fund for classroom
maintenance and renovation. Vice President Womack and Provost Vest noted that a
decision had been made several years ago that this type of activity represented an
ongoing commitment and thus a high priority for the general fund. Therefore, it was
appropriate to represent it as an ongoing general fund activity, not as a special,
one-time expenditure.
In response to a question from Regent Baker as to whether this meant the
University was abandoning its efforts to obtain state funding for building maintenance,
Vice President Womack responded that on the contrary, the University was increasing
its efforts to obtain additional state support. Provost Vest observed that current state
support for building maintenance was "woefully inadequate"; Vice President Womack
said that the University should be spending about 1-2% of the value of its plant each
year for maintenance, which would amount to about $50 million. Regent Power noted
that the general fund money being allocated for renovation and maintenance was
derived from internal reallocation.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents voted
unanimously to approve the renovation and maintenance projects. Regent Baker
commented that he had voted affirmatively "with reluctance".
Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (William J.
O'Brien)
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Varner seconded, approval of two standard
assignment agreements with William J. O'Brien, Ph.D.: one for composition and
device for mercury vapor removal, and the other for an ecological amalgam mixer.
The motion was approved unanimously by all seven Regents present.
Because Mr. O'Brien is a University employee, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Contract. The following information is supplied
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the assignment agreements will be:
a. The University of Michigan and William J. O'Brien.
b. The University of Michigan and William J. O'Brien.
2. The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated
by reference in this action.


-147 -



January Meeting, 1990


Proposed Research Contract between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL), a Small Business Incorporated and
Owned by a University Employee (Gordon L. Amidon)
Regent Baker moved, Regent Varner seconded, and all seven Regents present
unanimously approved, the University's entering into a research contract with TSRL,
Inc. This arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute,
since Professor Gordon L. Amidon, who is the owner of TSRL, is also a University
employee. In addition, Glen D. Leesman, the project director for the proposed
research, is a University employee and is also employed by TSRL as director of
research. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1. Parties to the contract are the University of Michigan and TSRL, a
corporation wholly owned by Professor Gordon L. Amidon.
2. The contract to be signed is the University's standard research
contract. The University will be paid $16,160. in direct costs and
$8,694.00 in indirect costs. The indirect costs reflect the University's
full indirect cost recovery rates.
3. Professor Amidon's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of
TSRL. Dr. Leesman's pecuniary interest arises from his employment
by TSRL.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Michigan Student Assembly Elections
Regent Baker commented that the recent student government elections had
resulted in a "major miscarriage of justice". He noted that the Conservative Coalition
candidates had overwhelmingly won eight of nine LS&A seats, that the student
judiciary had certified the results and then had properly ordered the ballots to be
destroyed. However, because previous to the certification of the election 19 ballots
had been declared invalid, the losing candidates requested a recount. This could not
be done because the ballots had been properly destroyed. However, Regent Baker
noted that the outcome of the election would not have been affected by the excluded
ballots.
The Choice party requested a hearing on the election process from the Central
Student judiciary. A single justice agreed to hear the Choice party's complaint. The
Conservative Coalition was not notified of the hearing, but appeared at the hearing
place. The Conservative Coalition was refused admission to the hearing by the
Central Student Judiciary justice, who refused to hear any testimony from the
Conservative Coalition. However, the justice allowed the Michigan Daily reporters to
be admitted to the hearing.
The result of the hearing was that the election was declared invalid and the
LS&A student government was given the authority to appoint representatives. It


-148 -



January Meeting, 1990


appointed four members of the Conservative Coalition, four members of the liberal
Choice party who had lost in the general election, and one independent representative
who had not been a candidate in the original election. This action denied the
Conservative Coalition control of the student government, which it would have had if
the original election had been upheld. Regent Baker noted that if such election
practices had occurred in Chicago, they would have been labeled "fraud".
Regent Baker moved that the Interim Vice President for Student Services
appoint a committee of students and administrators, including one person trained in
the law, to review the matter for fairness and legality, and that it have the power to
overturn the decision of the Central Student Judiciary. Regent Smith seconded the
motion.
Regent Roach said that he did not think that the Regents should interfere in this
type of student issue, because the students would have an opportunity to rectify such
matters at future elections. Regent Baker responded that he thinks the University has
an obligation to oversee honest elections.
Regent Power agreed that the scenario described by Regent Baker seemed
"curious", but agreed with Regent Roach that the Regents should avoid getting
involved in student politics. He also questioned the procedural aspect of Regent
Baker's motion, noting that he did not think the Board should direct the
administration to take specific managerial actions. He suggested that the President
might ask the new Interim Vice President to look into the matter, which would address
the issue raised by Regent Baker but allow him to withdraw his motion.
President Duderstadt reported that members of the administration had had
discussions with a number of the concerned student groups about this matter. He
suggested that this dialogue be allowed to continue informally, rather than having it
take the form of a formal review. The Board would then be apprised of the results of
these discussions. He pointed out that there are two issues: to determine whether
there had been a breach of University policy that applies to all aspects of the
University, including student government; and to facilitate student government's
ability to resolve this on their own. He reiterated that he did not think it was in the
best long-range interests of the University for the administration to formally get
involved in the affairs of student government.
Noting the Regents' previous decision to increase student fees as a result of
misappropriation of MSA funds, Regent Nielsen observed that the Board has an
obligation to get involved in student government in some cases, especially when it
starts affecting individual students.
Regent Roach agreed that the question of how much of students' dollars should
be applied to MSA fees is a regental decision. However, he reiterated his opinion that
the board should not get involved in running student government.
Regent Baker said if he could be assured that the matter would be fairly
examined within the informal limits that the President had outlined, he would
withdraw his motion. President Duderstadt responded that the matter would continue
to be reviewed, and would not be dropped.


-149 -



January Meeting, 1990


Regent Baker then withdrew his motion, and Regent Smith withdrew her
second.
Possible Admission of Pennsylvania State University to the Big Ten Conference
Regent Baker noted that the possibility that Pennsylvania State University might
be admitted to the Big Ten Conference had received a lot of mention in the press in
recent weeks, and asked the President to brief the Regents on this matter.
President Duderstadt said that for a number of years there had been
consideration by the Big Ten presidents of expanding the conference. Penn State had
always come up during those discussions, because it has many of the characteristics of
the Big Ten institutions (academic and athletic distinction; location in a large
industrial state, and highly esteemed in that state). In addition, Penn State would give
the Big Ten clout in its efforts to lead the athletic reform movement in the NCAA,
while financially, its membership in the Big Ten would give the Big Ten access to the
eastern market.
Penn State had approached the Big Ten in the fall of 1989, asking it to consider
the circumstances under which it would make an offer for Penn State to join the
conference. The Big Ten Council of Presidents considered the matter in October, and
they encouraged the head of the council and the Big Ten commissioner to pursue the
matter with Penn State. They reported back to the council in December that Penn
State was indeed very serious about wanting to join the conference. The presidents
decided on a procedure by which they would first contact key groups on their
campuses to ascertain the level of support. If there was general support, they would
publicly express the premise that Penn State should join, and this would trigger the
second step, which was to be a review process to see if that made sense.
However, the story leaked out to the press before the presidents had a chance to
complete the first step of consultation with athletic directors, governing boards, and
other campus groups. The presidents held a conference call at which it was
determined that there was great interest in pursuing the matter further, but at which it
was emphasized that there were still many factors that tiwould need to be addressed
before final approval could be given.
The presidents have formed three committees to address the major outstanding
issues: financial, scheduling, and academic. The committees will consult with all of
the campus constituencies and, along with a similar committee at Penn State, will
report to the Big Ten presidents in June of 1990. At that time the presidents will
make their decision.
President Duderstadt emphasized that despite press reports, admission of Penn
State to the Big Ten Conference was not a fait accompli. He also reported that there
was no consensus about adding a twelfth team to the conference, nor were there any
assumptions that Northwestern University would leave the conference. At this point,
he concluded, the Penn State matter is in the form of a premise that may or may not
hold true. If the outstanding issues are not resolved satisfactorily, Penn State will not
be added to the conference.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, the president explained that the
decision of whether or not to admit Penn State would be decided by a majority vote of


-150 -



January Meeting, 1990


all of the schools in the conference. He noted, however, that he assumed that if a
significant minority of schools decided that the admission would not be appropriate,
the admission most likely would not go forward.
Regent Power observed that the process might have been better served if it had
been done openly. President Duderstadt responded that because of the respect the
Big Ten presidents had for Penn State, they had wanted to first ascertain that there
was sufficient positive interest on the part of the Big Ten to make it worthwhile for all
parties to pursue the matter further.
Personnel Actions
Provost Vest noted an additional personnel recommendation, extension of the
appointment of Daniel E. Atkins III as Dean of the College of Engineering, that had
not been included with the agenda. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by
Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the appointment.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of
December, 1989 totalled $151.98. The next meeting will take place on February 15
and 16, 1990.
Richard L. Kennedy, Sctary


-151 -



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 15, 1990
The meeting scheduled for 1:00 P.M. on February 15, 1990 was postponed until
9:00 A.M. on February 16, due to inclement weather.
Friday, February 16, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regents Brown and Varner were absent.
Michigan Partnership for New Education
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and introduced Cecil Miskel,
Dean of the School of Education, to describe the Michigan Partnership for New
Education.
Dean Miskel described the history of this program, which was initiated by Mr.
A. Alfred Taubman, who brought together people in the private sector, higher
education, and state government to see how these entities could work most effectively
to effect major changes in our educational system. The Partnership's goal is to
fundamentally change our education system, including higher education, so that it can
be responsive to the needs of today's society. The fundamental assumptions of this
endeavor are that a) there has to be a critical mass to institute in-depth change, b)
there must be a partnership between elementary and secondary schools, business and
industry, higher education, and government, c) new knowledge about education needs
to be created and disseminated through effective programs, and d) progress must be
regularly assessed and evaluated.
Some of the programs to be developed are exemplary schools, career transition
programs for expanding the number of teachers in science and technological
disciplines, leadership academies, and restructuring teacher education programs. The
linking of the education, business, and government sectors will also help to develop a
demand for change on the part of the public. Among the University of Michigan units
that will be participating in the Partnership are the Institute for Public Policy Studies,
and the Schools of Social Work and of Education.
Dean Miskel emphasized that the Partnership is a high risk venture that has
never been tried before, and that the University has an opportunity to play a central
role. Regent Baker commented that the concept of the Partnership is excellent and is


-153 -



February Meeting, 1990


something the University should be involved in. He said that the University's financial
commitment to this venture ought to be clearly stated.
Dean Miskel said that the University will be an equal partner with Michigan
State and Wayne State Universities, and that its commitment will be met mainly
through reallocation of resources within the School of Education and through
leveraging small amounts of seed money it may receive through other sources.
Regent Baker pointed out that there needs to be agreement on the part of
policy makers on the need for educational change of the type Dean Miskel had
described. President Duderstadt noted that this issue is considered by some to be the
greatest problem the country has faced since World War II. Regent Power observed
that he was pleased that the University is involved in this effort.
Minutes
Consideration of the minutes of the January, 1990 meeting was deferred until
the March meeting.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports of Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. He responded to several
questions about the litigation report.
Regent Baker said that it was important that the University make an effort to
reduce its operating costs. President Duderstadt responded that the report of the Task
Force on the Costs of Higher Education, which addresses that issue, would be
presented at the next month's Regents' Meeting.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports of Projects Established Research and
Other Activities, and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored
Projects.
CIESIN. Regent Baker noted the recent announcement of the formation of the
Consortium for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN).
President Duderstadt explained that the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration had launched an "earth observing station" which would be generating
massive amounts of data. The basic purpose of the Consortium will be to work with
NASA to develop the mechanisms through which that data can be evaluated.
Regent Baker commended Representative Traxler for his efforts in behalf of the
CIESIN program, noting that it was encouraging that the University would be involved
in an effort to gather, analyze, and distribute data collected by satellite and other
means to the scientific community. He continued that far-reaching decisions cannot
be made about alleged global warming, the mal-distribution of gases in the earth's
atmosphere, and other matters without the necessary data, proper analyses, and
unbiased interpretation of those data.
Regent Baker pointed out that these issues are emerging political as well as
scientific issues, and that it was important that the University be involved in
maintaining the integrity of the CIESIN process and that it not let its part of the


-154 -



February Meeting, 1990


process be involved with a particular political bias.
Regent Power commented that merely because a topic under scientific and
academic scrutiny has political consequences is no reason to prevent or in any way
affect such scrutiny. Regent Baker responded that any suggestion that he was
interested in preventing exploration of these topics could be disproven by reviewing
the tapes of the meeting.
Following further comments about CIESIN, the Regents voted unanimously to
receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for January, 1990. President Duderstadt noted
the significant increase in the amount of gifts received for the month of January, 1990
as compared to the same period in 1989.
The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Randolph J. and Judith A. Agley Foundation Roseville
for the Randolph J. Agley Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                             25,000
Emma W. Alexander Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Art and Medicine, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Center for the Continuing Education of Women          5,800
Alexander & Alexander of Michigan, Inc., Detroit
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Amax Foundation, Inc., Greenwich, Connecticut
for support of the College of Engineering                                  10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in the College of Pharmacy          13,416
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the School of Public Health                                 6,750
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                               12,250
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         22,250
Amoco Oil Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                    12,000
Arthur Andersen & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Cognitive Science andMachine Intelligence Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                         150,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                              300,000
Anonymous Donor
for art history suxport in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
the Museum of Art                                                           6,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Dean William Haber Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                   10,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 5,413
Ruth Siefkin Bacon Estate
for support of the Medical School, in memory of Martha Gray                 5,000
Terry Barr Sales Agency, Inc., Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             20,000
Bergstrom Foundation Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                 25,000


-155 -



February Meeting, 1990


Blum-Kovler Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                      5,000
Botwinick-Wolfensohn Foundation, Inc New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                      5,000
Jessie L. Boyce Estate
3,487 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the Jonathan Boyce
Scholarship                                                                184,289
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Bockman/Hall Fellowship and the Preston W. Slosson Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                13,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             150,000
Brunswick Foundation, Inc., Skokie, fllinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                      5,000
James W. and Gladys R. Callison, Dunwoody, Georgia
for unrestricted support of the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 6,000
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                          105,000
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      5,800
Children's Liver Foundation Rockford
for the Transplant House, the University of Michigan Hospitals              10,000
Ciba-Geigy Corporation, Summit, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                          20,000
Clark, Klein & Beaumont, Detroit
for support of the Law School, and for Employee Matching Gifts               6,835
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for the development of a joint Master's Degree Program in the Schools of Business
Administration and Nursing                                                  25,000
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,577
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 14,090
Mrs. Willard M. Cornelius Jr., Harbor Springs
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Mary W. Davis Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Sherry Isabel Davis Diez Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                10,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          35,000
James W. Delavan, Grand Rapids
for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in the Medical School              6,177
Peter C. Dendrinos, Traverse City
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              20,000
Walter W. Deschner Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       8,705
Peter Fordney De Vaux, Santa Monica, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts
for the Digital Faculty Program Grant in the College of Engineering         25,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation Midland
for support of the College of Engineering                                    5,000
Dow Chemical U.SA. Midland
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration; and for research in the School of Public Health    10,000
William H. Edwards, Los Angeles, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
Eveready Battery Company, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for burn research and education in the Medical School                       10,000


-156 -



February Meeting, 1990


F. B. P., Inc., Las Vegas, Nevada
for support of the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital                            15,000
Lynda L. and Murray J. Feiwell, Carmel, Indiana
for support of the College of Literature Science, and the Arts, and the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics, and for the Roy R. and Jean
Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School                    8,500
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurology in the Medical School         10,000
First National Bank of Chicago Foundation, Chicago, linois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,550
Frances B. Fisher, Brookside, New Jersey
for botanical gardens support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Medical School, the University Hospital, the University of MichiganDearborn, and the University Musical Society                                244,250
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering and the University Musical Society  35,820
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for cancer research in the Medical School                                    34,000
General Motors Corporation Detroit
for support oT the College of Engineering                                    78,780
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Allan D. Gilmour, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration and for the President's Fund  7,500
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Ginn, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for support of the College of Engineering, the Michigan Historical Collections and
the University of Michigan                                                    5,050
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Norma B. and Elliot R. Goodman, Cranston, Rhode Island
for archaeology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   5,000
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Sheila Ford and Steven K. Hamp, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Wade McCree Incentive Scholarship   10,000
Jerry F. and Anne Hanlon, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Hayden Foundation, Wayne
for support of the School of Business Administration and the University of
Michigan-Dearborn                                                            10,000
Mary A. Heaton, Troy
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                8,300
Carl J. Herzog Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for support of the Medical School                                             6,000
Charles S. and Ann S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
for the CA.M.P. Building Program in the Alumni Association, and for the Harold
A. Furlong Visiting Professorship in the Medical School                      20,000
James W. Hyde, Paris, Kentucky
for the Class of 1904 Law Scholarship in memory of Emory J. Hyde              5,000
J. P. Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                            7,500
Donald E. Johnson, Jr., Flint
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                8,400
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for pharmaceutics research in the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                               50,320
Johnson ControLs Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                     10,925
Pauline C. Jones Estate
for the Roger M. Jones Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering           15,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            7,250
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts    5,000
Richard Katcher, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Richard Katcher Loan Fund and other support in the Law School; and for
scholarships and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics   5,700


-157 -



February Meeting, 1990


W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the W. K. Kellogg Foundation Presidential Initiatives Fund, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                             1,002,150
Virginia L. Kirk Allen Park
for the Timothy Kirk Fund in the Medical School and for the University of
Michigan Hospital Burn Unit                                                   7,500
Michael S. Knuths, Dallas, Texas
358 shares of A & W Brands, Inc. common stock; for the Roy F. and Jean
Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School                    9,979
Francis B. Kulp, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1964 Endowed Faculty Fund in the Law School                  5,000
Bernard and Ronnie Lacroute, Saratoga, California
4000 shares of Sun Microsystems common stock; for the Colleges of Engineering,
and Literature, Science, and the Arts                                        68,000
D. Bruce Laing, Dowagiac
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Alan R. Lecz, Allen Park
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for unrestricted support of the
College of Engineering                                                       15,000
Linda J. Lemieux, Flint
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                8,300
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           14,715
Little Family Foundation, Providence, Rhode Island
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowships in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000
Monroe D. MacPherson, Westfield New Jersey
for support of the School of Education, and for the Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering                         5,500
Frederick C. Matthaei, Sr. Trusts
for the Regents Discretionary Fund                                           12,763
Charles A. McCloskey Estate
for undergraduate student financial aid                                      50,371
John A. McDonald, Chicago, Illinois
for the Roy F. and jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law
School                                                                        5,000
Curtis W. McGraw Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Arthur Webster Memorial Fund in the Law School                       10,000
Douglas and Charlotte McGregor, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                     9,963
Betty C. McMurray, Kirkland, Washington
for mathematics support, in honor of Ruel V. Churchill, in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                             5,000
George Meader, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School and the Michigan Historical Collections  9,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for Chinese and Japanese Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                344,292
Midland Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Mrs. Vaden W. Miles Ann Arbor
for support of the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                     10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts           5,000
John C. Morley, Cleveland, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship                               5,502
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology      224,500
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,663
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            9,000
Baruch Myers, West Orange, New Jersey
for Judaic Studies Development in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000


-158 -



February Meeting, 1990


National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           25,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           13,500
N.C.R. Foundation, Dayton, Ohio
for scholarships for under-represented students in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,000
New York Institute for Vascular Studies, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Casper Y. and Helen B. Offutt, Atherton, California
two shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock; for the Casper and Helen Offutt
Fund, to participate in the University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund,
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  17,025
John J. O'Leary Green Valley, Arizona
for the John G. and Mary O'Leary Scholarship                                 50,000
O'Mora Productions, Inc., Beaufort, South Carolina
for the Dennis McIntyre Prize Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,000
Donald G. Otero, Birmingham
for the Virginia and Donald Otero Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,200
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Funds in the Medical School                           54,445
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Edward J. Perlberg, Standish
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Programs in the Schools of Natural Resources and Public Health  280,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Miami Valley Laboratories, Cincinnati, Ohio
for faculty awards in the College of Engineering                              5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Funds and other support in the Schools of Business
Administration and Law, the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and the Arts and in the President's Office                                   65,000
Progressive Tool & industries Company, Southfield
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
an additional contribution for the John A. Pursley Fund, to participate in the
University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Engineering                                                10,000
Genevieve E. Rains Estate
for support of the Alumni Association and the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Fund  18,208
Floyd S. Reid, Costa Mesa, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               15,000
Mr. and Mrs. David F. Rentschler, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                6,000
Republic National Bank of New York New York
for the Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Professorships in the Schools of Business
Administration and Law                                                      150,000
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Bronx, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
John E. Riecker, Midland
100 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock; for the Margaret A. and John
E. Riecker Law Library Fund, and for unrestricted support of the Law School   6,594
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Fund in the Medical School                          11,709
Peter J. Rosewig, Dunwoody, Georgia
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Lois R. Ross Trust, Naples, Florida
for the Coleman J. Ross, Jr., and Lois R. Ross Scholarship Funds in the Schools of
Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, and the University of Michigan-Flint       40,000
Sage Foundation, Detroit
for the Emmett E. Eagan Memorial Scholarship in the Law School               25,000
Phyllis B. Santo Trust, Northville
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000


-159 -



February Meeting, 1990


Edward I. Schalon, St. Joseph
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
Tor doctoral fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                           8,000
Searle Family Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy                            300,000
Joseph R. Seiger, Foster City, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   10,000
James M. and Nancy Nolen Sheridan, North Muskegon
400 shares of SPX Corporation common stock; for the John H. Nolen Fund in the
School of Dentistry the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics,
and for unrestricted support of the Law SchooF                               11,575
Edwin N. Sidman, Newton, Massachusetts
for the Paula and Edwin Sidman Fellows in the Arts Fund, in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            20,000
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for gifts pending designation                                                 6,667
Thomas H.Snyder, WiEmette, Illinois
for the Wildman, Harrold, Allen & Dixon Fund and other support in the Law School  6,000
Marion B. Sober Estate
for the Frederick D. Sober Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                265,428
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for the George E., Jr. and Elizabeth S. Sperling Fund in the Law School      12,000
Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Simpson III, Port Huron
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering, and for the University of
Michigan Faculty Fund                                                        12,500
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Suits, Ann Arbor
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,100
William P. Sutter, Ocean Ridge, Florida
for general endowment in the Law School                                       5,000
Joel D. Tauber Support Foundation Detroit
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                               9,000
Telios Pharmaceuticals Inc., La Jolla, California
for cardiovascular research in the Medical School                             7,500
Frederic G. Telmos, Sr. Estate
for the Frederic G. Telmos, Sr. Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,100
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for multicomputer research in the College of Engineering                     10,000
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for the Arthur Thurnau Funds                                                218,227
Maxine J. Tobias, Ann Arbor
for the Max E. Tobias Memorial Scholarship                                   25,000
Triton Biosciences Inc., Alameda, California
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                       5,000
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             20,683
Union Carbide Corporation Chemicals and Plastics Group, South Charleston, West Virginia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             20,000
Unisys Corporation Detroit
for scholarships, fellowships and other support in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  166,050
Robert Vanderkloot, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Medical School                                            12,286
Thomas W. Van Dyke, Prairie Village, Kansas
for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School  6,000
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt and Howlett, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   30,000
Daniel W. Vittum, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Class of 1964 Endowed Faculty Fund in the Law School                 50,000
Dr. and Mrs. Leo 0. Welter, Chico, California
for the Peter J. Cohen and Robert B. Sweet Funds in the Medical School, and for
unrestricted support of the Medical School and College of Engineering         5,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support of the School of Education                                       20,000


-160 -



February Meeting, 1990


Roger Zatkoff Company, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                                9,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Lolagene Coombs, Ann Arbor
a collection of books and journals; for the Department of Psychology
E. Frederick Lang, Grosse Pointe
a collection of antiquarian scientific books; for the Department of Rare Books and Special
Collections of the University Library
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
as a supplement to the approved renovation project in the President's House the nt  tfollowing gifts
were received: A desk, credenza, tables and chairs; for the Library and Study
Personnel Actions
Provost Vest noted the appointment of Peter M. Banks as Dean of the College
of Engineering, effective July 1, 1990. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by
Regent Smith, the Regents unanimously approved the following Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Richard A. Altschuler, Ph.D., Associate Research Scientist, appointed Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without
tenure, March 1, 1990
Peter M. Banks, Ph.D., Dean of the College of Engineering, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and
Space Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure, for a five-year term, July 1, 1990
Nola J. Pender, Ph.D., Professor of Nursing and Director of the Center for Nursing Research, for a threeyear term
Stephen H. Sumida, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Joseph Datsko, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, reappointed to active status, Winter term,
1990
John A. Jacquez, Professor Emeritus of Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Biostatistics, reappointed to
active status, for a one-year period, March 1, 1990
Ludwig Koenen Herbert C. Youtie Professor of Papyrology, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of
Classical Studies, reappointed Chair of the Department of Classical Studies, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1991
S. Glen Paulsen Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed to active status, Winter term, 1990
Robert A. Weisbuch, Professor of English Language and-Literature, with tenure and Chair of the
Department of English Language and Literature, reappointed Chair of tde Department of English
Language and Literature, for a Tour-year term, July 1, 1990
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Linas A. Bieliauskas, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School appointed Associate
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, March 1,
1990
H. Don Cameron, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, appointed Acting Chair of the Department
of Classical Studies, for an 11-month term, August 1, 1O
Michel C. Oksenberg, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, appointed Director of the Center for
Chinese Studies, for a three-and-one-half-year term, January 1, 1990


-161 -



February Meeting, 1990


The following committee appointments were approved:
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selections Committee
Jean D. Cobb, for a one-year term, September 1, 1989 - August 31, 1990, vice Gertrude V. Huebner, term
expired
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Hemalata Dandekar, for a two-and-one-half-year term, January 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Allan G.
Feldt term expired
William A. Werner, for a two-and-one-half-year term, January 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Robert M.
Darvas, term, expired
Museum of Art Executive Committee
Alfred S. Sussman, reappointed for a two-year term, January 1, 1990 - December 31, 1992
School of Music Executive Committee
Glenn E. Watkins, for a six-month term, January 1 - June 30, 1990, vice Richard Crawford, on sabbatical
leave
School of Public Health Executive Committee
David H. Garabrant, for the remainder of the term ending August 31, 1991, vice John P. Kirscht, deceased
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Timothy D. Leuliette, for a four-year term, February 1, 1990 - January 31, 1994
UM-Flint Channel 28 CommunityAdvisory Board
Olive Beasley, reappointed for a three-year term, June 1 1989 - May 30 1992
Al Cook, reappointed for a three-year term, June 1, 1989 - May 30, 1992
James Granberry, reappointed for a three-year term, June 1, 1989 - May 30, 1992
Carol Hinterman, reappointed for a three-year term, June 1, 1989 - May 30, 1992
Jan Nieuwenhuis, reappointed for a three-year term, June 1, 1989 - May 30, 1992
Associate Dean for Administration. The Regents approved the establishment of
the position of Associate Dean for Administration in the School of Natural Resources,
effective February 15, 1990.
Associate Dean for Student Services. The Regents approved the appointment
of Kenneth K. Saunders as Associate Dean for Student Services at UM-Flint, effective
March 12, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Debra E. Meyerson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management
School of Dentistrv
Warren C. Wagner, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, December 18, 1989
College of Engneerine
Medmi R. Singh, M.S., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ana E. Alvarado, B.S.N., Lecturer in Spanish
Maria I. Alvarez Puente, BA., Lecturer in Spanish
Maria A. Bacigalupo, BA., Lecturer in Spanish
Pascale H. Bielek,-BA., Lecturer in French


-162 -



February Meeting, 1990


Rolf A. Bodmer, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, September 1, 1990
Christa E. Campbell, BA., Lecturer in Spanish
Lilia B. DeMilne, MA., Lecturer in Spanish
Ann M. Hilberry, MA., Lecturer in Spanish
Rachael A. Jones, MA., Lecturer in French
Laurence M. Lenaghan D.EA., Lecturer in French
Ana I. Levenson, BA., Lecturer in French
Catherine R. Meza, MA., Lecturer in Spanish
Franco M. Nori, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Anne M. Sargent Ph.D., Lecturer in French
May Seigneurie, MA., Lecturer in French
Mermone Van Deventer, Certificat, Lecturer in French
Olga M. Vilella-Janeiro, M.S.J., Lecturer in Spanish
Medical School
William F. Armstrong, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 2, 1990
David A. BoothmanPh.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, December 4, 1990
Jeffrey S. Chamberlain, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, March 1, 1990
Mark J. D. Cobby, MB.CHB., Lecturer in Radiology
Craig Hammerberg, Ph.D., Lecturer in Dermatology
CarlL. Holsey, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, January 3, 1990
Mack T. Ruffin, M.D  Assistant Professor of Family Practice
Harvinder S. Talwar, Ph.D., Lecturer in Dermatology
Gihan I. Tennekoon, MB.BS., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
School of Nulrsin~
Beverly Jones, M.B.A., Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs and Lecturer in Nursing, December 1, 1989
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1990
Medical School
Gerald R. Dreslinski, M.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
James H. Meador-Woodruff, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
School of Nursing
Bonnie M. Hagerty, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
College of Pharmtacv
SallyK. Guthrie, Assistant Professor of Pharmacy appointed Assistant Professor of Pharmacy,
Department of Psychiatry, Medical Schoo, December 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Law School
Roger A. Cunningham, James V. Campbell Professor of Law, retirement furlough, January 1, 1990 -
May 31, 1991
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Meigan C. Aronson, Assistant Professor of Physics, with tenure, duty off campus, February 1 - May 31,
1990
Helene Barcelo, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, personal leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Emily L. Cloyd, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 22 - May 31, 1990
Steven B. Dierker, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, duty off campus, February 1 - May 31, 1990
Martin B. Einhorn, Professor of Physics, with tenure duty off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1990
David N. Freedman Arthur F. Thurnau Professor o? Biblical Studies and Professor of Near Eastern
Studies, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Avery Katz, Assistant Professor of Economics and Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, scholarly
activity leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990


-163 -



February Meeting, 1990


George I. Mavrodes, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Camille B. Wortman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary, February 2 - May 31,
1990 and September 1 - December 31, 1990
Medical School
Gerald D. Abrams, Professor of Pathology, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990
Allan R. Beaudoin, Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, retirement furlough, June 1 -
August 31, 1990
Thomas G. Connelly, Associate Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, personal leave, January 1 -
December 31, 1990
Robert J. Crossen, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, disability leave, October 24, 1989 - March 30,
1990
Prasanta K. Datta, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30,
1990
Gary Davidoff, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, intergovernmental leave,
January 1 - June 30, 1990
Bruce Friedman, Professor of Pathology, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990
Simon P. Levine, Assistant Professor oT Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, intergovernmental leave,
December 18, 1989 - April 30, 1991
Shobha V. Malviya, Intructor in Anesthesiology, personal leave December 7, 1989 - March 7 1990
Leslie E. Quint, Assistant Professor of Radiology, extended sick leave, December 15, 1989 - January 16,
1990
School of Natural Resources
William B. Stapp, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1990
School of Nursing
Carol J. Boyd, Assistant Professor of Nursing, childcare leave, March 1 - May 31, 1990
College of PhaLnacy
David E. Smith, Associate Professor of Pharmacy, without tenure, personal leave, August 19, 1989 -
August 18, 1990
Division of Physical Education
Timothy P. White, Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990
School of Public Health
Noreen M. Clark, Ch-air and Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990 and January 1 - May 31, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Law School
Lawrence W. Waggoner, Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law, change of leave type from teaching leave to
contract leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Eshel Ben-Jacob, Assistant Professor of Physics, research leave dates previously reported as September 1
- December 31, 1989 changed to September 1,1989 - May 31, 1990
Janis P. Hardwick, Assistant Professor of Statistics, change of leave type from leave without salary to duty
off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1990
William B. Nightingale, Professor of English, with tenure, and Professor of Theatre, without tenure,
School of Music, cancellation of personal leave previously reported from January 1 - Ma 31,1990
Rebecca J. Scott, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, change of leave type from scholarly activity
leave to duty off campus January 1 - May 31, 1990
Walter M. Spink Professor of History of Art, with tenure, change of leave type from sabbatical leave to
leave with salary, January 1 - May 31, 1990; sabbatical leave postponed until September 1 -
December 31, 1990
Robert M. Stern Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, cancellation of research leave
previously reported from January 1 - May 31, 1990
Medical School
Joyce A. Wahr Instructor in Anesthesiology, personal leave dates previously reported as June 1 -
November 30, 1989 changed to June 1, 1989 - January 7, 1990


-164 -



February Meeting, 1990


School of Nursing
Carol J. Boyd, Assistant Professor of Nursing, extended sick leave dates previously reported as
September 22 - November 10, 1989 changed to September 22, 1989 - February 28, 1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Craig D. McDow, Lecturer in Dentistry and Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, January 19, 1990
College of Engineering
Timothy J. Drummond, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, January 15, 1990
Shyam K. Samanta, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, without tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Rolena Adorno, Professor of Latin American Literature, with tenure, May 31, 1990
Jocelyne M. Blain, Lecturer in French, May 31, 1990
Susan F. Harding, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
William B. Nightingale, Professor of English, with tenure, and Professor of Theatre, without tenure,
School of Music
Tiziano G. Vanola, Lecturer in Italian
Medical School
Keith D. Aaronson, Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, January 31, 1990
Gordon D. Burtch, Instructor in Surgery
Thomas J. Colturi, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Peter J. Ernst, Instructor in Anesthesiology, January 19 1990
William L. Eschenbacher, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, December 22, 1989
John A. Jacquez, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without tenure, School
of Public Health, February 28, ro19
School of Music
Arnold P. Aronson, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure
School of Nursing
Kathleen B. Long, Lecturer in Nursing
School of Public Health
Marie L. As cra t Associate Professor of Public Health, without tenure January 31, 1990
Kenneth E. Noll, rofessor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure
UM-Dearbom College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Marilynn E. Bell, Lecturer in Rhetoric and English Composition
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt retirement memoirs for two faculty members. Regarding the
retirement of Donald Bryant, Regent Baker commented that he "is a man of
tremendous talent who has served the University and community well."
Donald T. Bryant retired from active status on January 14, 1990, after twenty
years of service as conductor of the University Choral Union of the University Musical
Society. As the seventh in the distinguished lineage of choral union conductors,
Donald T. Bryant has maintained and significantly added to the tradition of excellence
that began with the formation of the University Choral Union in 1879.
Donald Bryant studied piano and composition at Capital University in
Columbus, Ohio, earning his B.M.E. (Mus. Ed.) degree in 1941 and his B.Mus.
(Composition) degree in 1946. He then earned B.S. and M.S. degrees in piano
performance in 1947 and 1948, respectively, from the Juilliard School in New York.
Prior to his appointment at the University of Michigan, he served as director/pianist/
teacher of the Columbus Boychoir School, based in Princeton, New Jersey. For his
-165 -



February Meeting, 1990


notable achievements in that position, the Westminister Choir College in Princeton
conferred upon him an honorary doctorate of music degree in 1961.
Upon arriving in Ann Arbor in 1969, Donald undertook what was to become his
legacy to the University Musical Society: the formation of the Festival Chorus, a
smaller group of singers that made its debut in the spring of 1970. Under his guidance,
the Festival Chorus has performed with many distinguished visiting conductors and
orchestras. It has also made three foreign concert tours -- to Europe, Egypt, and Spain
-- which were the Musical Society's first choral representation abroad. Continuing the
chorus' long tradition of community-wide participation, each season Donald Bryant
auditioned, selected, prepared, and conducted the Choral Union singers for their
holiday performances of Handel's "Messiah." Likewise, he prepared the chorus for its
appearance in the annual May Festival, a choral tradition originating with the first
May Festival in 1894.
A gifted composer, Donald Bryant received a commission from the Musical
Society for first performance at a concert marking his retirement. "Genesis," for
chorus, orchestra, children's chorus, and soloists, was premiered on January 14, 1990.
An earlier commission by the Musical Society was premiered at the 1984 Ann Arbor
Summer Festival.
In total, Donald Bryant has led the University Choral Union and Festival
Chorus in the performance of 52 major choral works, in addition to "Messiah" and
numerous short works, giving area singers and concertgoers the opportunity to
experience the best of the choral repertoire. Throughout his career, he has offered
unflagging enthusiasm, encouragement, and assistance to the non-professional singer;
his everlasting good humor and sharp wit are attested to by all who know him.
In appreciation of his distinguished and dedicated service to the University
Musical Society, the University of Michigan, and the Ann Arbor community, the
Regents now salute Donald T. Bryant by naming him Conductor Emeritus of the
University Choral Union and Festival Chorus.
John A. Jacquez, M.D., professor of physiology in the Medical School and
professor of biostatistics in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty
status on February 28, 1990, after a long and productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of France, Dr. Jacquez attended Cornell University from 1940-43 and
received his M.D. degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1947. He
undertook further research training as a fellow at Sloan-Kettering Institute and
completed an internship at Kings County Hospital. In 1956, he was appointed
assistant professor of biology at the Sloan-Kettering Division of the Cornell University
Graduate School of Medical Science; he was promoted to associate professor in 1958.
In 1962, Dr. Jacquez joined the University of Michigan with a joint appointment
as associate professor of physiology in the School of Medicine and as associate
professor of biostatistics in the School of Public Health. He was promoted to
professor of physiology in 1969 and professor of biostatistics in 1973. From 1985-87,
he served as acting chair of the Department of Physiology. Dr. Jacquez has
participated in a number of interdisciplinary programs, including the Dental Research
Institute, the physiological acoustics program, and the Computing Center. He has
continually played an important role in the organization and administration of the
Department of Physiology's graduate degree program, and has trained a number of
graduate students who are now leaders in their field.
Dr. Jacquez's research has involved the mathematical analysis of data dealing
with a variety of subjects, ranging from the kinetics of cellular amino acid uptake to
the transmission of AIDS. He received the Presidential Initiative Award for two


-166 -



February Meeting, 1990


consecutive years (1987-88) for his proposal on modeling AIDS infection. Among
other services to his discipline, Dr. Jacquez has served as president of the Society of
Mathematical Biology and editor of the Journal of Mathematical Biosciences.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming John A. Jacquez Professor Emeritus of Physiology and Professor
Emeritus of Biostatistics.
Memorials
Provost Vest reported the deaths of two faculty members. The Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following memorials:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
February 5, 1990, of Harold A. Korn, professor of psychology and director of
counseling services.
Professor Korn was born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1929. He received his B.S.
and M.A. degrees from the City College of New York in 1951 and 1952, respectively,
and subsequent to a two-year stint in the U.S. Army, returned to graduate school,
receiving his Ph.D. degree in clinical psychology from the University of Minnesota in
1958. For the following decade, he served as associate director of Stanford
University's Counseling Center, much of that period being simultaneously involved in
collaborative research at Stanford's Institute for the Study of Human Problems. In
1969, Professor Korn joined Florida State University as director of its counseling
center and professor of psychology. In 1978, he was recruited to the University of
Michigan as both director of counseling services and professor of psychology, and
served in those roles until his recent death.
Professor Korn's rich array of interests, talents, and skills permitted him to move
comfortably from devoted clinical work with individual students to analysis of entire
university systems of advising and mental health services, from fine-grained study of
factors influencing student participation in classroom discussion to keen appraisals of
higher education in the United States, from the psychometric intricacies of objective
test construction to longitudinal studies of college student development. Always at the
center of his field of vision were college students. His various journal articles,
conference presentations, and books ranged widely in their attention to student
drop-outs, student activism, determinants of occupational choice, experiential
education, evaluation of learning, personality development, campus stress, and the
design, structure and missions of counseling services. His life's work of enhancing the
provision of psychological services to students always sought to link individual
counseling to the broader educational experience. In complementary fashion,
Professor Korn's research and writing not only extended our understanding of the
multi-faceted impact of the university experience on young adults, but equally
compellingly made us aware of the implications of students' pressing developmental
tasks on the design of university educational experiences. He helped innumerable
students directly with his clinical talents and humane commitment; he helped whole
universities as well as scholars of higher education recognize and address the
inevitable intertwining of curriculum, student development, and student services.
As we mourn the loss of this scholar, clinician, and administrator, our
condolences go to his wife, Claire, and his son, Alex.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on January 30, 1990 of Jack L. Walker, Jr., professor and chair of the
Department of Political Science. He was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in


-167 -



February Meeting, 1990


the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University at the time of his death in an
automobile accident. He had also been a Guggenheim Fellow and Woodrow Wilson
Senior Fellow.
Professor Walker was born in Atlanta, Georgia, on January 30, 1935. He
received his B.A. degree from Emory University in 1956 and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Iowa in 1963. He joined the faculty at the University of Michigan in
1964.
A mainstay in the administration of the University, Jack served as director of the
Institute of Public Policy Studies, associate dean in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and chair of the Department of Political Science. In each of these
capacities, he displayed a rare vision and a dedication to building the institution. He
was a voice of reason and common sense, and yet a never-ending source of ideas and
exciting new directions.
Jack's scholarship was characterized by an unerring sense for identifying central
problems, a real creativity in grappling with those problems, and results that spoke to
many of the most important issues in the social sciences. He was responsible for
path-breaking studies of the diffusion of innovation, race and politics, interest group
formation, and the setting of policy agendas. His collaborations with his graduate
students and his colleagues not only turned out distinguished research contributions,
but also turned into lasting and close friendships. As we mourn the loss of this great
scholar, teacher, and administrator, our condolences go to his wife, Linda, and his
sons, Max and Sam.
Degrees
Regent Smith moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved changes to previously approved degree lists and confirmation of degrees
conferred at the December, 1989 commencement.
1990 Henry Russel Award
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the selection of Philip J. Hanlon, Associate Professor of
Mathematics, and Alice Fulton, William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English
Language and Literature, as joint recipients of the 1990 Henry Russel Award.
Appointment of Auditors for 1989-90
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents voted
unanimously to reappoint Ernst & Young as auditors for 1989-90.
Semi-Annual Reports of Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable
Restricted Fund
Vice President Womack submitted schedules summarizing the activity in the
Designated, Auxiliary Activities, and Expendable Restricted Funds for the first six
months of the current fiscal year and the prior year.
Regent Power commented that he found it difficult to interpret all of the
information contained in these reports. Vice President Womack responded that he
and his staff are aware that the format of the reports does not adequately meet the
Regents' needs, and that they are working to revise them.


-168 -



February Meeting, 1990


Vice President Womack responded to concerns expressed by Regents Roach
and Baker about the negative fund balance at the Computing Center. He described
several possible explanations for this, but emphasized that the nature of a six-month
"snapshot" report makes it difficult to make an accurate assessment of an entity's
financial condition.
Ingalls Mall
Vice President Womack noted that the Board had previously reviewed and
approved the Ingalls Mall plans on several occasions. He introduced Mr. Fred Mayer,
University Planner, who reviewed the schematic designs for the final phase of the mall
and responded to questions from the Regents about the project.
Appearance of the Diag. Regent Roach observed that he did not approve of a
recent occurrence in which, in an effort to encourage recycling, a pile of garbage had
been dumped on the Diag. He also pointed out the negative impression of the campus
that is conveyed to visitors by the various shanties that have been on display on the
Diag for several years. Regents Nielsen and Smith agreed, and expressed the hope
that the Diag could be cleaned up during the coming summer.
The President commented that the University should develop policies about
what is acceptable to display on the Diag, noting that once an area has been
beautified, people take pride in it and work to maintain its appearance.
Regent Baker said that he believed that the expenditure of student fees for the
garbage dumping demonstration represented poor stewardship of funds.
Following further comments, Regent Nielsen moved, seconded by Regent
Smith, approval of the budget for the final phase of the Ingalls Mall project. The
motion was approved unanimously.
East University Area Central Chiller Plant and Chilled Water Loop
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised site and budget for the central chiller plant and
chilled water loop.
Certificate of Need Approval for New Registration and Billing System
Vice President Womack described the new billing and registration systems
which will replace the current systems with state of the art technology that will
interface with the Hospital's other existing and planned systems.
Vice President Womack responded to questions from the Regents about how
the new system would address problems in the current billing and reimbursement
systems. Following this discussion, Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Power seconded,
and the Regents voted unanimously to endorse the replacement of the existing billing
and registration systems and to file of a Certificate of Need application for the systems
at an estimated cost of $4.5 million.


-169 -



February Meeting, 1990


Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and EP Systems,
a Small Business Owned in part by a University Employee
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, all six Regents
present unanimously approved a proposed subcontract between the University and EP
Systems, a small business owned in part by Janice Jenkins.
The proposed subcontract falls under the provisions of the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute, because Dr. Jenkins is both an owner/employee of the
sponsoring company and an employee of the University. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the agreement will be EP Systems and the Regents of the
University of Michigan.
2. The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract.
There are no restrictions on publication or openness of the research.
The project involves the evaluation of software previously developed
by EP Systems, using a computer model developed by the graduate
student funded by the project. The graduate student is using this
analysis as part of his doctoral thesis. Testing of the software will be
done using clinical data already stored by Dr. Jenkins in the Medical
Computing Laboratory of the Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science Department.
The subcontract will cover 100% of the graduate student's salary and
related fringe benefits over a three month period ($6,600). Dr.
Jenkins will supervise the student and act as Project Director. Dr.
Jenkins will not be reimbursed for her time on the project as a
University employee.
3. The total grant to EP Systems is $11,200. Approximately $2,400 of
this will be paid as salary to Dr. Jenkins as an employee of EP
Systems. The company is required to provide matching funds for the
grant in the amount of $3,750. Dr. Jenkins owns 50% of EP Systems.
EP systems will retain all rights to the software which it previously
developed and which is being tested in this project.
1990-91 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Johnson introduced a recommendation for average increases of
5.9% for residence halls and 6.3% for family housing apartments for the 1990-91
academic year.
Mr. Robert Hughes, Director of Housing, noted that the increases had been
recommended and approved by the two student/staff Rate Committees after
reviewing the financial operations of the Housing Division. The components of the
increased fees include general inflationary increases of 4.6% for family housing rates
and 4.8% for residence hall rates, and additional funding for improvements in the
RESCOMP computer program and other academic initiatives, the faculty dining
program, the Residence Hall Repertory Theatre and "Talk to Us" troupe, and other
programs.


-170 -



February Meeting, 1990


Regent Baker noted that residence hall student guidelines as stated in the
"Living at Michigan Credo" seem to inhibit students from expressing their views,
pointing out that several students had been subjected to the disciplinary process under
the credo because they had voiced their disapproval in various ways of the homosexual
life. Mr. Hughes responded that on the contrary, the Credo encourages students to
fully express their views. Regent Baker commented on the importance of maintaining
the students' right to speak freely on such matters in the dormitories. He also
observed that apparently publicly-funded counseling for the student considering the
homosexual life was available, but that publicly funded counseling advocating the
heterosexual life in such circumstances was not available to such students.
Regent Baker said that some months ago a young woman spoke at the public
comments session and stated that when she opened her dorm room door as she moved
into the residence hall, she found her roommate in a homosexual embrace with
another woman. She said that subsequently she was also persuaded of becoming a
homosexual during the period in which she lived in the dormitory. The young woman
noted that she had received counseling provided by the University which was a factor
in her decision.
Two years ago, he continued, he had participated in a symposium held in
Rackham Auditorium with 20 or so faculty members, administrative officers and
students, wherein a young male law school student said that he had adopted a
homosexual life at the University after counseling provided by the University.
Regent Baker said that the point of the issue is whether such young people
receive counseling advocating both the homosexual and heterosexual life. If only the
homosexual side is presented, then he thinks it is an improper expenditure of public
funds. Regent Baker noted that the homosexual life counseling is provided in part
through the Lesbian and Gay Male Programs Office which is funded by public funds,
and that he knew of no such office providing counseling on the heterosexual life.
Mr. Hughes responded that he was not aware of the incidents that Regent Baker
was referring to, but that it was the nature of counseling to provide alternatives and to
help people explore issues of sexuality. Counseling for one particular frame of mind
or another, he continued, would be advocacy, not counseling.
Mr. Alan Levy, Housing Program Director, added that the Housing counseling
program involves working with students as they explore their own development --
personal, academic, and spiritual and not advocacy of particular issues. He noted
that other counseling offices outside of the residence halls, including Counseling
Services and the Lesbian and Gay Male Programs Office, are also involved in
counseling on issues of sexual identity.
Regent Power praised the RESCOMP program as a successful attempt to
integrate students' academic lives with their residence hall environments.
Regent Roach noted that his view of the Credo is that it is a statement of values
for students who live in residence halls. He said that he has not heard the types of
complaints voiced by Regent Baker, and that he does not believe that is a major
problem.
Further consideration of the 1990-91 Residence Hall and Family Rates was


-171 -



February Meeting, 1990


delayed until after the Public Comments session.
Interim Bylaws for the School of Dentistry
The Regents unanimously approved the extension through September 30, 1990
of the Interim Bylaws for the School of Dentistry.
Membership in Committee for Education Funding
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved renewal of the University's membership in the Committee for
Education Funding.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff
membership.
Resolution for Resigning Member of UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Regent Baker moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, a resolution of appreciation for the contributions of Mr. Joseph H. Anthony
to the University of Michigan Flint Citizens Advisory Committee.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Zachary Kittrie, student, about matters of concern to students; Aaron
Williams, President of Michigan Student Assembly, about the MSA elections
investigation, proposed student housing rates, and the non-academic conduct policy;
and Charles Dudley, Chair of the MSA Students' Rights Committee, about students'
rights.
1990-91 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Regent Waters moved approval of average rate increases of 5.9% for residence
halls and 6.3% for family housing apartments for the 1990-91 academic year, as
outlined in the action request.
Regent Baker questioned the need for the Residence Hall Repertory Theatre
and "Talk to Us" troupe. Vice President Johnson said that the program had previously
been funded from discretionary funds of the Office of the Vice President for Student
Services. When this was no longer possible, Housing had decided it was a valuable
enough activity that it should continue to receive funding from Housing as an ongoing
program.
Mr. John Heidke, Associate Director for Housing Education, responded to
questions about the theater troupe. He also noted that $16,000 of the program had
been funded previously by the office of the Vice Provost for Minority Affairs.
President Duderstadt noted that the troupe served an important educational function,
and that he had been very impressed by the quality of a recent production he had seen.


-172 -



February Meeting, 1990


Regent Baker said that there ought to be some effort made to control costs.
Regent Roach noted that the cost of residence halls had not risen nearly as much as
tuition over the years, and that residence halls programs had improved tremendously.
He noted that there had been a good deal of student input into the residence hall rate
committees and hardly any complaints.
Regent Baker moved to amend the motion to reduce the cost of the $40,000
budgeted for the theatre program by $16,000, the amount no longer being funded by
the Vice Provost for Minority Affairs.
President Duderstadt noted that the role of the Vice Provost is to initiate
activities, not to provide continuing funding for them, and that the Residence Hall
Rate Committee had approved this expenditure of funds.
Regent Smith seconded Regent Baker's amendment. Following further
discussion about the theatre program, the vote was taken on Regent Baker's
amendment. The amendment failed, with Regents Baker and Smith voting in favor
and Regents Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Waters voting against. Regent Baker noted
that this would be the first in a series of arguments he intended to make to reduce the
costs of running the institution.
The vote was then taken on the original motion, to approve the recommended
residence hall and family housing rates for 1990-91. The result was a tie, with Regents
Power, Roach, and Waters in favor and Regents Baker, Nielsen, and Smith opposed.
The meeting was then recessed for about ten minutes.
Following the recess, President Duderstadt announced that the original motion
to approve the recommended 1990-91 residence hall and family housing rates would
be reintroduced with the understanding that one-half of the budget for the Residence
Hall Theatre Program ($20,000) would be provided by the Office of the Vice
President for Student Services, which would result in a corresponding decrease in
housing rates.
Regent Baker moved the motion; it was seconded by Regent Smith. Regent
Roach observed that he would support the motion, but pointed out that its effect
would be to shift support of the theatre program from students who live in residence
halls to all students.
Further discussion followed about the motion, with Regent Baker pointing out
that the real issue is not this particular program, but what can be done in general to
control costs. The president responded that the two major restraints on cost
containment for student housing are general, nation-wide increases associated with the
costs of housing and loss of state support for quality higher education over the past
two decades, with the concomitant necessity for shifting the burden to students.
Citing the fee enacted last year for the dormitory recycling program, Regent
Baker said that he was not in favor of the University's levying fees for programs that
were not specifically educational in nature.
The vote was then taken and the motion carried unanimously.


-173 -



February Meeting, 1990


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, and telephone expenses for the month of January,
1990 were $3,000.05. The next meeting will take place on March 22 and 23, 1990.
R c   1/.a ' _. ^/-ed. j //
Ricard L. Kennedy, Secretay


-174 -



MARCH MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 22, 1990
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M. at the Fair Lane Mansion on the campus of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and
Vice Presidents Johnson, Kelly, Swain and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters and Vice President Cosovich were
absent.
Chancellor Wilson welcomed the meeting participants to the Dearborn campus.
She then described the role of the UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee and
introduced the following committee members who were present at the meeting:
Nancy Badore, Steven Economy, Frederick Hoffman, Timothy Leuliette, Marjorie
Powell, William Shade, Herbert Tabor, Robert Taub, Harry Tauber, and Roger
Winkelman. President Duderstadt acknowledged the committee members and
thanked them for their contributions to the University.
Annual Report of Investments
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Womack to present the Annual
Report of Investments. Vice President Womack introduced Norman Herbert,
University Investment Officer, and David Thurston, of Cambridge Associates. Mr.
Herbert announced that the book value of the University Investment Pool on
December 31, 1989 was $635 million, with a yield for 1989 of 8.4%. The real value of
the Donor Pooled Income Fund was enhanced by 5.7% in 1989, with.2% added in
real value over a ten-year period. The real value of the endowment fund increased by
5.1%; annualized over a ten-year period, the fund has been enhanced with real value
added of 1.8 percentage points per annum.
Mr. Thurston, whose firm, Cambridge Associates, the University has retained
for advice on investments, gave a presentation that explained the University's 1989
investment performance. He recommended that the University continue to follow its
current strategy of value-style investing, because historically, value investing has
provided the highest returns over the long run.
Regent Smith observed that when the University first instituted the multiple
manager system for common stocks, the intent was that the managers would represent
a balance of the three investment styles of basic value, growth and income, and
growth. Mr. Thurston concurred, noting that the intent was to diversify between those
three segments. He pointed out that there does not appear to be as much
diversification among these styles as had been intended originally. In response to a
question from Regent Varner, he noted that Cambridge Associates believes that the
University probably has more money managers than it needs, and that it could
probably duplicate the same returns with similar risks with fewer managers. He


-175 -



March Meeting, 1990


pointed out that this situation typically occurs when institutions first switch from single
to multiple managers. He also noted that as the portfolio is diversified into assets
other than stocks and bonds, there is less risk in the total portfolio and
correspondingly a decreased need for a large number of managers of common stocks.
Mr. Thurston continued with his presentation, and he, Mr. Herbert, and Vice
President Womack responded to a number of questions from the Regents about
specific aspects of the University's investment program. Following the presentation,
Regent Power praised this year's report as being "more succinct, more analytic, and
more comprehensible" than it had been in the past; Regent Smith concurred with that
assessment.
Further Diversification of Endowment Assets
Mr. Herbert presented a request for commitment to invest $5 million in Royalty
III, an oil and gas property acquisition program managed by Floyd Oil Company, and
to invest $2.5 million in Oppenheimer Institutional Horizon Partners, L.P., a limited
partnership for reorganization investments, managed by Oppenheimer and Co., Inc.
Investment in the former would be the Regents' second oil and gas investment, while
investment in the latter would take the program in reorganization investments to $10
million, the authorized limit of 2.5% of the University Endowment Fund's market
value.
After explaining the request, Mr. Herbert responded to questions from the
Regents about the proposed investments. Regent Smith stated that she felt this type
of investment was too risky. Following further discussion, Regent Power moved that
$5.0 million be committed to Royalty III and that $2.5 million be committed to
Oppenheimer Institutional Horizon Partners, L.P. Regent Brown seconded the
motion, and it was adopted, with Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and
Varner in favor and Regent Smith opposed.
College of Pharmacy Addition
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Fred Mayer, University Planner, who
displayed the plans and a scale model of the design of an addition to the College of
Pharmacy. Mr. Mayer and Dean Ara Paul of the College of Pharmacy responded to
questions from the Regents about specific design and programmatic elements.
Following the discussion, Regent Varner moved, and Regent Brown seconded
approval of the project design and budget and authorization for soliciting construction
bids. The motion was approved unanimously.
Minutes
Regent Roach called for the tabling of the minutes of the February, 1990
meeting. Regent Roach moved approval of the minutes of the meeting of January 18
and 19, 1990. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
MSA Elections. Regent Baker raised the issue of the fairness of the November,
1989 MSA elections, noting that he had been assured that the matter would be fairly
examined under an informal procedure outlined by President Duderstadt during the
January meeting. Regent Baker said that during her investigation, the General
Counsel failed to contact Jeff Johnson, a member of the Conservative Coalition who


-176 -



March Meeting, 1990


had approached Regent Baker and the General Counsel in an effort to have his view
heard. Regent Baker said that he was disappointed with the results of the General
Counsel's investigation of the MSA election; he felt that the Conservative Coalition
should have been given a hearing, but instead had been treated poorly.
President Duderstadt responded that his charge to the General Counsel had
been to evaluate the nature of the rules governing MSA and the student judiciary with
regard to the elections; to determine whether those rules had been violated; and to
determine whether there were any inconsistencies between the MSA rules and other
rules and policies of the University. General Counsel Cole had determined that the
matter would be best handled by requesting that MSA modify the way in which it
conducted subsequent elections. Members of the Conservative Coalition, including
current MSA president Aaron Williams and his officers, had agreed with this decision,
and had expressed their opposition to the administration's further involvement in this
issue. He noted the possibility that there could be disagreement with this view within
the Conservative Coalition.
Regent Baker observed that the President's description is the opposite of what
he had heard.
Regent Roach raised a point of order that the discussion needed to address
either the minutes or an issue before the board. Regent Nielsen called the question,
and the minutes of the January, 1990 meeting were approved unanimously.
Regent Baker moved that the President request that the General Counsel
contact Mr. Johnson and hear his views on the MSA elections. Regent Smith
seconded the motion. The vote was taken and the motion failed, with Regents Brown,
Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner opposed and Regents Baker and Smith in favor.
Regent Baker expressed his disappointment with the outcome of the
administration's review of this issue. The president noted that the General Counsel's
report had been acceptable to the Conservative Coalition and to the administration.
Regent Roach pointed out that another MSA election was in progress and that the
Regents should focus their attention on policy issues.
The President then acted on Regent Roach's motion that consideration of the
February, 1990 minutes be tabled. There being no objections, the minutes of the
meeting of February, 1990 were tabled.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted Reports of Investment Transactions,
University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory and Performance as of December
31, 1989, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations.
Personnel-Labor Relations Report. Vice President Womack announced that
TIAA-CREF has dropped its absolute prohibitions against cash-out and transferability
of CREF accumulations, and that within about two years it would apply this policy to
TIAA accumulations. He noted that in the near future the Board will be asked to
decide whether or not to adopt these new options, pointing out the serious policy
issues that would be involved in changing from a guaranteed lifetime annuity system to
a cash accumulation vehicle.


-177 -



March Meeting, 1990


Leasing of Rental Property. Regent Baker observed that the University had
recently entered in a $2.5 million five-year lease of space at 301 East Liberty Street for
use by the Development Office. He also noted that the University had recently leased
office space in Washington, D.C. He expressed concern that the Regents' approval of
these transactions had not been requested in advance.
Vice President Womack said that leases are not routinely brought to the
Regents for approval, and explained the reasoning behind the Development Office's
move from the Fleming Building to the leased space. He also explained the general
pros and cons of renting space versus constructing new space to meet the institution's
needs. Regent Baker responded that the issue is that significant sums of money were
expended for leased space without the Regents' knowledge.
President Duderstadt explained the time and space constraints that had led to
the decision to move the Development Office out of the Fleming Building and the
Student Activities Building and to consolidate it all under one roof in the rental space.
He also noted that the University had already exceeded the total amount of
fundraising it had achieved during all of last year, but that significant new fundraising
efforts will be necessary in the near future.
Regent Nielsen reiterated Regent Baker's concerns about the Regents' not
having been informed about the plans to relocate the Development Office. Regent
Roach noted that while proposed purchase of real estate and likely lease of real estate
by the University can be discussed in a private meeting prior to an option being
obtained, it had not previously been the administration's practice to bring proposed
leasing arrangements to the Regents for review.
Further discussion followed about the various issues involved in deciding
whether to lease or build office space. In response to a question from Regent Baker,
the president said that Vice President Cosovich would retain an office in the Fleming
Building and that Vice President Johnson would be moving into the building. The
rearrangement would mark the first time that all of the executive officers would be
housed in the Fleming Building.
Regent Roach pointed out that the major policy question is at what level do the
Regents want to get involved in deciding when to lease and when to own space.
Regent Smith suggested that the Regents could receive a report of proposed leases
over a certain dollar amount. Vice President Womack pointed out that much of the
leased space is tied to research projects which have contractual obligations. Any
delays caused by prior approval requirements would place burdens on research
contracts.
Regent Baker concluded by saying that "if there is going to be an expenditure of
$2.5 million, [he] wants to know about it ahead of time."
Research Reports. Vice President Kelly submitted reports of Projects
Established-Research and Other Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current
Research for the month of March, 1990. There being no further comments, Regent
Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded that the Regents receive the Reports. The
motion was approved unanimously.


-178 -



March Meeting, 1990


Gifts and Grants
President Duderstadt submitted the monthly report of Gifts and Grants in Vice
President Cosovich's absence. The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks
and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Ann Arbor Area Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Elderly Service Corps Program                                         13,125
Air Products Foundation, Allentown, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program and other support in the School of Business
Administration                                                                 8,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and in the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                  227,562
American Chemical Society Washington, D.C.
for research in the College ofLiterature, Science, and the Arts               20,000
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                             9,559
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                             7,447
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                                     9,750
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                           137,250
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            98,085
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            48,250
American States Insurance Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  50,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                    5,170
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology       40,667
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            16,667
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        38,446
Esther Cherryman Ashley Estate
for support of the Alumni Association                                         10,000
Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C.
for physical stress research and other support in the College of Engineering  60,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                                 23,593
Bell Communications Research, Inc., Livingston, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  10,200
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship                           28,337
Black Law Student Alliance, Ann Arbor
for the Alden J. "Butch" Carpenter Memorial in the Law School                  5,634
Bonisteel Foundation, East Grand Rapids
for research in the College of Engineering                                    15,000
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           130,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                    421,500
Lucille Thomas Cecil Estate
for support of the Department of Athletics                                    19,000
Children's Cancer Research Fund, Midland
for research in the Medical School                                             5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                             7,499
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for Chrysler Corporation Scholarships and Fellowships in the College of Engineering  7,500
Community Foundation of Greater Flint Flint
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint                               7,000


-179 -



March Meeting, 1990


Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          26,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation of Northwestern Ohio, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                          22,500
Murray L. and Ann Wehner Deutsch, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
680 shares of Mobil Corporation common stock; for the Murray and Ann Deutsch
Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                39,780
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              14,500
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for research and other support in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and tor Employee Matching Gifts                      30,768
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  14,824
Gunter Dufey, Ann Arbor
640 shares of Mexico Fund common stock; for faculty support in the School of
Business Administration                                                      8,760
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            7,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester New York
for support ofthe College of Engineering, and the School of Business Administration  7,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for the Ernst & Young Professorship in Accounting in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                             75,175
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 13,725
Suren D. Fesjian Pelham Manor, New York
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program            5,000
Edsel and Eleanor Ford House, Grosse Pointe Shores
for support of the School of Natural Resources                               7,991
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration                        12,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            32,578
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                             15,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan Ann Arbor
for research in the SchooFof Public Health                                   5,000
David B. Hermelin, Troy
for support of the School of Business Administration                        10,000
Industry/AGA Research Scholar Awards, Thorofare, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                          12,500
Infusaid Corporation, Norwood, Massachusetts
for research in the Medical School                                          15,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute for Social Research  128,540
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School                                         267,818
Leonard H. Klaasen Grosse Pointe Park
500 shares of Southern California Edison Company common stock; for the Class of
1931 Scholarship in the College of Engineering                              18,687
Esther A. and Joseph Kingenstein Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Education                                     63,600
Sara Lee Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,180
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds in the Medical School                       38,339
Henry Luce Foundation Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            18,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School of
Business Administration                                                     35,825


-180 -



March Meeting, 1990


John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts           150,000
M. Frank McCaffrey Trust, Grosse Pointe Shores
for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research Fund in the Medical School       25,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    9,728
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              30,500
Edwin E. and Mary U. Meader, Parchment
6,615 shares of Upjohn Company common stock; for support of the School of Music  237,313
Michigan Eye Bank & Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           6,500
Mid America Institute for Public Policy Research, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the School of Business Administration                        10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Foundation Scholarship m the School of Business Administration, and for
the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering               5,000
Morrison Foundation, Detroit
for the Emmett E. Eagan Memorial Scholarship in the Law School              10,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Affiliates Program in Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems in the College of
Engineering                                                                 50,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                              10,760
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                          26,347
Francis T. Oda, M.D., Inc., Honolulu, Hawaii
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Robert B. Olsen Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       5,000
Bennie G. Oosterbaan Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  9,100
Petrie Stores Corporation, Secaucus, New Jersey
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Programs in the School of Natural Resources                    100,000
Protein Development Associates, Menlo Park, California
for research in the Medical School                                          10,000
Frances Quarton, Ann Arbor
for the Gardner C. Quarton Memorial Fund in the Medical School               5,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          30,000
H. Robert Reynolds Ann Arbor
for the Ethef V. Curry Distinguished Lectureship in the School of Music     12,500
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            49,015
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen Ross Professorship in Real Estate in the School of Business
Administration                                                             100,000
Schering-Plough Foundation2 Inc., Madison, New Jersey
lor Employee Matching Gifts                                                 10,850
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                10,000
Nataline V. Scott Estate
2,808 shares of various corporate common stock; for the Guido Anthony and Agnes
Nicolini Vincenti Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  115,949
Fred E. Shaw Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      16,251
Sheraton Inn, Ann Arbor
for the Sheraton Inn-Ann Arbor Scholarship                                   5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B, and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  6,732
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts             25,000
Smith-Welsh Foundation, Rolling Hills Estates, California
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics          5,000


-181 -



March Meeting, 1990


Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,799
K. P. Sogoian Manufacturing Company, Southfield
for the K. P. and Emma Sogoian Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 5,000
Spence Brothers, Saginaw
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute of Gerontology, and in the Institute for Social Research  173,750
Irvin Stern Foundation New York, New York
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    20,000
A. Alfred Taubman, Bloomfield Hills
for the University of Michigan Hospital                                    500,000
Triton Biosciences Inc., Alameda California
for research in the School of Dentistry                                      5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the TRW Faculty Assistanceship Fund and other support in the College of
Engineering                                                                 20,000
Union Carbide Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut
for the Union Carbide Fellowship in the College of Engineering              10,000
Union Pacific Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,000
Whitby Research, Inc., Irvine, California
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School                       35,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Frank 0. and Doris B. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              16,000
J. Reimer Wolter, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship and Immunopathology Research Fellowships in
the Medical School                                                           8,000
Smilka Zdravkovska, Ann Arbor
for the Allen L. Shields Memorial Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 5,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School of
Business Administration                                                     35,825
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Mallory Davis Estate, Flint
473 hard bound books and 429 soft bound books; for the University of Michigan-Flint, Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
a function generator, a pulse generator and an oscillosope with a printer and related equipment;
for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Maxon Electronics Kansas City, Missouri
two each of the following: 1200 baud modems, transmitter/receiver units, antennas, and cables;
for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Personnel Actions
Provost Vest and Chancellor Wilson pointed out some of the noteworthy
appointments before the Regents. In response to a question from Regent Varner,
President Duderstadt explained that Coach Schembechler had resigned his position as
athletic director, but had been granted a one-year leave of absence from his position
as assistant professor through regular administrative channels. If at the end of that
period he were to request an extension of that leave, such a request would come
before the Regents for approval.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved the following Personnel Actions:


-182 -



March Meeting, 1990


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Benjamin Lev, Ph.D., Dean of the School of Managment, UM-Dearborn, for a five-year term,
September 1 1990 and Professor of Management, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1990
Philip L. Roe, BA., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, April 1 1990
Gihan I. Tennekoon, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Associate
Professor of Neurology, without tenure, March 23, 1990
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990
Erling Blondal Bengtsson, Diploma, Professor of Music
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
W. H. Locke Anderson, Professor Emeritus of Economics, reappointed to active status, Spring half-term,
1990
Frank E. Beaver, Chair and Professor of Communication, with tenure, reappointed Chair of the
Department of Communication, for a one-year term, July 1, 1990
Frank E. Filisko, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and Acting Director of the
Macromolecular Research Center, reappointed Acting Director of the Macromolecular Research
Center, until a permanent Director is appointed
Paul W. McCracken, Edmund Ezra Day Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Business
Economics and Public Policy, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Richard E. Nisbett, Theodore M. Newcomb Professor of Psychologoy, Research Scientist, Research
Center for Group Dynamics, and Acting Director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics,
appointed Director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics, for a four-year term ending
December 31, 1994 (effective April 1, 1990)
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status, Winter term, 1990
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Hugh D. Aller, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of Astronomy,
for a five-year term, July 1, 1990
Kan Chen, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, appointed Professor of Urban Technological, and Environmental Planning, without
tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, for a three-year term
John H. D'Arms, Dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, Gerald F. Else Professor
of Classical Studies, with tenure and Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, appointed Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, for a five-year term, March 1,
1990
Erik Fredricksen, Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, appointed Chair of the
Department of Theatre and Drama, for a five-year term
Robert N. Grosse, Professor of Health Planning with tenure and Professor of Population Planning and
International Health, with tenure, School of Public Hiealth, appointed Professor of Urban,
Technological, and Environmental Planning, without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, or a three-year term
William G. Rosenberg, Professor of History, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of History,
for a three-year term, July 1, 1990
Frank P. Stafford Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
appointed Professor of Urban Technological, and Environmental Planning, without tenure,
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, for a three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Bunyan I. Bryant, Jr., for a one-year term, March 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991, vice Harrison L. Morton,
resigned
Bobbi S. Low, for a two-year term, March 1, 1990 - May 31, 1992, vice William B. Stapp, term expired


-183 -



March Meeting, 1990


School of Social Work Executive Committee
Brett A. Seabury, for a six-month term, March 1 - August 31, 1990, vice Jo Ann Allen, retirement furlough
Extension of Leave of Absence. The Regents approved an additional year of
leave of absence without salary for Charles L. Glaser, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, for the period September, 1990 - May, 1991.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors. The Regents approved the
appointment of Edward Richard George Heath as the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting
Professor in Honors, for the period of April 1 - 8, 1990.
Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professorship in Business and Law. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research
Professorship in Business and Law, effective May 1, 1990.
John Psarouthakis Research Professorship in Manufacturing Management. The
Regents approved the establishment of the John Psarouthakis Research Professorship
in Manufacturing Management, effective July 1, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Sara S. Bergsma, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Michael A. Callan, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Jeffrey W. Easton, D.D.S., M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Ronald K. Kampas, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Kevin N. Kieu, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Thomas G. Kluemper, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
Barry L. Walvoord, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Carolyn Anderson-Burack MA., Lecturer in French, January 1, 1990
Kathleen E. Meyer, BA., Lecturer in French, January 1, 1990
Jeffrey S. Moore, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Medical School
William D. Belville, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery February 1, 1990
Gerald M. Gacioch, M.D  Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 8, 1990
Kevin M. Kavanaugh, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 8, 1990
Juan F. Lopez, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, January 22, 1990
Karin M. Muraszko, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, February 19, 1990
Jeffrey J. Popma, M.D  Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 8, 1990
Jorge L. Radriguez, M:.., Assistant Professor of Surgery, January 15, 1990
Adale M. Walters M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry January 8 1990
Dixon W. Wilde, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of nesthesiology, January 1, 1990
School of Music
Richard A. Beene, M.M., Assistant Professor of Music
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Meigan C. Aronson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, change of begin date from January 1, 1990 to
February 1, 1990
-184 -



March Meeting, 1990
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective March 1, 1990
Division of Physical Education
Glenn E. Schembechler, from Director of Athletics and Assistant Professor of Sports Management and
Communication to Assistant Professor of Sports Management and Communication
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineetin
JohnF. Meyer, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 1989 - May 31, 1990
Ravi Rao, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, leave without salary,
January 1 - May 31, 1990
Collee of Literature, Science, and the Arts
David M. Gates, Professor of Botany, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
Peter E. Hook Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September I - December 31, 1989
Arthur Rich, Professor of Physics, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
Gary R. Solon, Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
Medical School
John S. McReynolds, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
August 31, 1990
Wendell W Weber, Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Professor of Toxicology, without tenure,
School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1990
School of Music
William N. Rothstein, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
School of Nursing
Ann E. Rogers, Assistant Professor of Nursing, extended sick leave, October 24 - December 5, 1989
Colleee of Pharmacy
David Fleisher, Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, leave without salary, April 1 - June 30, 1990
Division of Physical Education
Glenn E. Schembechler, Assistant Professor of Sports Management and Communication, personal leave,
March 1, 1990 - February 28, 1991
School of Social Work
Jo Ann AlIen, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - May 31,
1990
UM-Dearbom
Eugene Arden, Provost and Vice-Chancellor of Academic Affairs and Professor of English, with tenure,
retirement furlough, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1991
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Mitchell Stengel, Lecturer in Social Sciences, personal leave, January 1 - December 31, 1990
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Enineering
James F. Driscoll, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical
leave previously reported from January 1 - May 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard J. Arculus, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, leave dates previously
reported as November 1 - December 31, 1989 changed to November 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Camille B. Wortman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave dates previously reported as February 2 -
May 31, 1990 changed to January 2 - May 31, 1990
-185 -



March Meeting, 1990


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Plannin
Gunnar G. Birkerts, Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professor and Professor of
Architecture, with tenure
Lester Fader, Professor of Architecture, with tenure
School of Business Administration
Alfred L. Edwards, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure
Arthur F. Southwick, Professor of Business Law, with tenure, and Professor of Health Services
Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health
School of Dentistry
Kimito Hoashi, Lecturer in Dentistry, March 31, 1990
Patricia A. Soeters, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1989
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aldon D. Morris Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Jack L. Walker, Jr., Chair and Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, January 30,
1990
Medical School
Sylvia M. Davies, Assistant Professor of Family Practice, February 10, 1990
Terence C. Davies, Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, and Professor of Health Services
Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health, February 10 1990
Aaron I. Vinik, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without
tenure, Department of Surgery, March 31, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following Retirement Memoirs:
Marie L. Ashcraft, associate professor of public health in the Department of
Health Services Management and Policy, retired from active faculty status on January
31, 1990.
Professor Ashcraft completed her R.N. degree at Bishop Johnson College of
Nursing in 1946. She received her B.S.N. degree (1968) and M.B.A. degree (1970)
from California State University at Chico. Professor Ashcraft was awarded her Ph.D.
degree in medical care organization from the University of Michigan in 1978.
In June 1978, Professor Ashcraft was appointed assistant professor of medical
care organization at the University of Michigan. She was promoted to associate
professor in 1986. During her tenure with the Department of Health Services
Management and Policy, she served, both formally and informally, as advisor to a
significant number of students. Her broad knowledge and experience, encompassing
the spectrum from clinical affairs to large scale social survey research, made her an
especially valued mentor to doctoral students.
Professor Ashcraft served as chief of the Great Lakes Regional Field Program
in Health Services Research at the Ann Arbor Veterans Administration Medical
Center from 1978-84. In 1984, she accepted the position of coordinator, Prospective
Payment System at the University of Michigan Hospitals, and continued as research
health science specialist in the Great Lakes Regional HSR&D Field Program of the
Veterans Administration Medical Center. While serving in these roles, she was
particularly helpful in forging improved cooperative relationships between the
department and various units at University Hospitals and the Veterans Administration
nationally.
Outside the academic domain, Professor Ashcraft provided important consulting
services to a wide range of health services institutions, ranging from Henry Ford


-186 -



March Meeting, 1990


Hospital in Detroit to the University of Iowa Hospitals. She is a member of a number
of nationally important committees and task forces in the Veterans Administration.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Marie
Ashcraft Associate Professor Emeritus of Public Health.
Aaron Finerman, professor of electrical engineering and computer science,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1989.
Professor Finerman received his B.C.E. degree (civil engineering) in 1948 from
the College of the City of New York and his S.M. degree (structural engineering) in
1951 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He worked as a project
engineer on structural engineering projects until 1954, when he returned to MIT to
work as a research engineer and instructor in civil engineering while he continued his
graduate studies. He received the Sc.D. degree (structural engineering) in 1956 from
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In 1956, Professor Finerman joined the Scientific Computing Group at Republic
Aviation Corporation. From 1961-69, he held positions as professor of engineering
and director of the newly created computing center at the State University of New
York at Stony Brook. Professor Finerman served as manager of the Office of
Computing and Information Systems at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory at California
Institute of Technology from 1971-73. He then returned to Stony Brook in 1975 as
chair of the computer science department; he served in that capacity until 1977.
In 1978, Professor Finerman joined the University of Michigan as director of the
Computing Center and professor of computer and communication sciences in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. In 1979, he received the additional
appointment of professor of electrical and computer engineering (now known as
electrical engineering and computer science) in the College of Engineering. He was
appointed special associate to the vice provost for information technology in 1986.
Professor Finerman has long been active in professional societies, having served
as president of the SHARE organization, and as treasurer and national council
member of the Association for Computing Machinery. In 1981, he received a
Distinguished Service Award from the Association for Computing Machinery.
Professor Finerman also has served as publications committee chair, board member,
and executive committee member of the American Federation of Information
Processing Societies. In recognition of his outstanding service to professional
societies, to computer science education, and to computer center management, in
1983, Professor Finerman was elected a fellow of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Aaron
Finerman Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Director Emeritus of the Computing Center.
Memorials
Provost Vest announced the deaths of Chester Leach, Assistant Professor of
English in the College of Engineering, and Robert Caddell, Professor Emeritus of
Mechanical Engineering. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent
Roach, the Regents unanimously approved adoption of the following Memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
March 2, 1990, of Jeanne Prial Gordus, associate research scientist and lecturer in
social work at the University of Michigan School of Social Work, where she was
known for directing many projects concerned with enhancing educational and career


-187 -



March Meeting, 1990


opportunities for employees in the work place.
Dr. Gordus was a pioneer in promoting the well-being of workers and helping
them to develop their full potential through collaborative projects involving the
University, organized labor, and major American corporations. She developed the
Employment Transition Program, a widely disseminated project which received
national attention for helping industrial workers facing job interruptions and
unemployment. At the time of her death, she directed and conducted research on the
educational initiatives involved in the Life/Education Planning Project, sponsored by
United Auto Workers-Ford National Education, Development and Training Center.
This program enabled UAW-represented Ford employees to receive new educational
training and establish life goals and plans to meet those goals through the assistance of
trained life education advisors located in work- place facilities across the nation.
Drawing from her wide experience and scholarship regarding labor-force issues, she
wrote numerous books and articles on such topics as the social and psychological
effects of unemployment, plant shutdowns, and early retirement.
Dr. Gordus was born March 7, 1935, in Goshen, New York. Her reputation as a
Renaissance woman reflected a broad-based liberal arts education. She earned a B.S.
degree in music from Manhattanville College in Purchase, New York, in 1955, and an
M.A. degree in music from the University of Wisconsin in 1956. She later earned an
M.A. degree in comparative literature in 1967, an M.A. degree in economic history in
1969, and a Ph.D. degree in economic history in 1979, all from the University of
Michigan.
Over the years, Jeanne was a regular commentator on labor and industrial
relations for public radio stations WUOM-FM in Ann Arbor and WVGR-FM in
Grand Rapids. She had recently recorded "Commentaries" on work-force issues which
were subsequently aired in memoriam.
Jeanne will always be remembered by her students and many colleagues at the
School of Social Work and other University units for the energy and optimism she
brought to the many initiatives she undertook and for her deep commitment to
enhancing the quality of life of workers and the delivery of training, education, and
counseling in the work place. As we mourn the loss of this scholar and educational
innovator, our condolences go to her husband, Adon A. Gordus, professor of
chemistry at the University of Michigan.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authorities in each case, the Regents
approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists. They also
confirmed the degrees that had been conferred at the December, 1989
Commencement at the UM-Flint.
Audit Report: University of Michigan Donor Pooled Fund for Year Ended December
31, 1989
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted
unanimously to accept the audit report for the Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
year ended December 31, 1989.
Kerr-McGee Corporation Mining Options and Leases Covering 2,840 Acres in
Marquette County, Michigan
Vice President Womack presented a proposal for mining options and lease


-188 -



March Meeting, 1990


modifications with the Kerr-McGee Corporation, covering 2,840 acres in Weber estate
land in northern Marquette County. The proposal involves a joint venture between
Kerr-McGee and Western Mining Corporation, which would include the University's
2,840 acres in the joint venture. Specific details of the proposed changes are outlined
in the action request.
Regent Roach moved approval of the joint venture; Regent Power seconded the
motion. Mr. Herbert responded to questions from Regent Nielsen regarding the
nature of the Kerr-McGee/Western Mining work commitment.
At Vice President Womack's request, Vice President Kelly, who is also an
economic geologist, explained that, from the companies' standpoint, the inobjective of
these leases would be to obtain subsurface geological information and to assess,
through mapping and diamond drilling, the possible presence, size, and location of
concealed ore deposits. In the particular area of these leases, their exploration targets
are most likely deposits of gold, or possibly uranium. From the University's
standpoint, the lease benefits are chiefly financial, although rock cores obtained in
such drilling are commonly made available for study by students in connection with
their thesis research.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the Regents unanimously
approved the joint venture between Kerr-McGee Corporation and Western Mining
Corporation, subject to the proposed changes as described in the Regents
communication.
Public Comments
Following a ten-minute recess, the Regents heard comments from the following
individuals on the topics indicated: Amy Bowen, member of the Committee for
Concerned Students at UM-Dearborn, about the UM-Dearborn athletic program;
Zachary Kittrie, student, about the MSA elections; Daniel W. Orlowski, student, about
the Diag shanties; Jeffrey Hinte, graduate student, about the diag shanties; John F.
Devlin, Chair of the Dearborn Faculty Advisory Committee on Campus Affairs, on the
UM-Dearborn athletic program; and Karen Wittknapp, UM-Dearborn staff member,
about the proposed parking rate increases for the Ann Arbor campus.
The meeting then recessed until the following day.
Friday, March 23, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jones and Wilson were also present,
as were Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack.
Reconciliation for Faculty Members Davis, Nickerson, and Markert
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and introduced Professor Gayl


-189 -



March Meeting, 1990


Ness, chair of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA).
Professor Ness stated that the Senate Assembly and SACUA had directed him to
request that the Regents make a significant gesture of reconciliation to faculty
members H. Chandler Davis and Mark Nickerson for dismissal and to Clement
Markert for temporary suspension and subsequent censure in 1954.
Professor Ness emphasized that the Senate Assembly resolution states that this
is a request for "institutional reconciliation and is not an attempt to assign individual
blame," noting that it is impossible to recreate and thus fully to comprehend the
climate of great anxiety and widespread anti-communist fervor that existed in the
mid-1950's. But, he continued, "that experience also leads us to recognize that in times
of great anxiety, our most cherished values can come under attack and can be
undermined." The SACUA request is meant to "remind us of the vulnerability of free
societies to such anxieties," and to "reinforce our commitment to those greater values
of freedom." Professor Ness continued his comments as outlined in the Regents
communication. He said that it is "to strengthen our commitment to free expression,
even when it concerns unpopular ideas, that we make this request to the regents
today."
Professor Ness observed that although the University administration has
decided that it is appropriate for them not to take a stand, members of the Senate
Assembly believe that the administration, the faculty, and the Regents are united in
their fundamental commitment to academic freedom. They recognize, however, that
there are legitimately different ways of expressing that commitment.
Regent Baker commented that Professor Ness's presentation had expressed a
neutral, fai, fair, balanced point of view. He noted that the 1950's were "different times",
when there were very real fears and when the country was at risk. He said that he
would like more compre omprehensive information about what actually happened at the
University during those times. He expressed the concern that people had acted in
good faith at that time, and that it is difficult to make judgements now about what
should have or could have been done differently then.
Regent Roach observed that contrary to the assumptions of the AAUP and the
Senate Assembly, the Regents have not been made fully aware of all of all of the facts
surrounding the actions taken against the three faculty members. He emphasized that
according to the book No Ivory Tower, by Ellen Schrecker, which is an account of what
happened at American universities during the McCarthy era, faculty committees had
recommended dismissal of Professors Nickerson and Davis prior to administrative and
Regental action. Regent Roach said that Schrecker's book also reveals that the
incidents in question were not at all unique to the University of Michigan. He pointed
out that in 1960 the Supreme Court ruled that membership in the Communist party
was not the same type of expression of speech as membership in a political party,
thereby upholding the conviction of the companion case to Professor Davis' case of
contempt of Congress. Regent Roach invited faculty or others to correct any errors in
Schrecker's book.
Noting the Regents had just rehired a former professor to teach a class on
Marxism, Regent Roach reaffirmed that people's political beliefs and the expression
of their views should not affect their status as faculty members or students of this
university. He pointed out that 1954 was a very different time, in which to be a
Commumst was not just to express alternate political views, it was to advocate the


-190 -



March Meeting, 1990


violent overthrow of the United States government.
Regent Varner commented that although she was very much in favor of
academic freedom, she was concerned about any possible liabilities, damage claims, or
other legal obligations the University might incur were it to act on SACUA's request.
She said she would like to receive more information about what other universities'
experience has been after having granted restitution in similar cases.
Professor Ness responded that he would supply this information.
Regent Power raised the issue of the precedent that might or might not be set
should the university grant a gesture of reconciliation. He mentioned the areas of
standards of academic performance on which promotion and tenure decisions are
based and the criterion used to determine awardees of honorary degrees. He noted
that in the late 1960's the University had awarded an honorary degree to Ferdinand
Marcos, who at the time had been cited for his accomplishments as the leader of the
Philippines. Mr. Marcos' record in more recent times would probably have precluded
him from consideration for this honor.
Professor Ness pointed out that both tenure and honorary degree decisions are
made after having followed established, well-known, open, fair, procedures that are
scrupulously followed. The AAUP had censured the University for the dismissal of
the faculty members because of the procedures that had been followed. The censure
was later lifted after the institution of Bylaw 5.09, which established clear procedures
for dismissing tenured faculty. Thus, according to Professor Ness, granting of
restitution would not open a Pandora's Box with regard to past actions that had been
taken after having followed clear, established procedures.
Regent Power asked Professor Ness what is meant by the phrase "significant
gesture of reconciliation". Professor Ness responded that although the Senate
Assembly was not making a formal recommendation, three ideas have emerged in
informal discussions. One would be reinstating severance pay in 1990 dollars for the
two faculty members who had been dismissed without it; another would be the
granting of emeritus status for all three faculty members. A third suggestion would be
establishing a lecture to remind the community of the University's commitment to
protecting its cherished values of academic freedom.
Regent Baker pointed out that if no action is taken, the issue is left at rest, with
the understanding that on the basis of what was known at the time, the proper decision
had been reached. Deciding that a prior decision needed to be changed would be to
imply that it was wrong and that someone had been at fault. The question is which
decision would lead to the greater harm. He also reiterated that the Regents need to
gain a more comprehensive understanding of the matter.
Professor Ness responded that one of the great strengths of our system of
government is its capacity to change. He cited examples in which the Supreme Court
has overturned previous Supreme Court decisions without placing blame to reflect a
recognition that society had changed.
Regent Brown agreed with Regent Baker that granting reconciliation could not
be done without admitting that the decision that had been made in the 1950's was
wrong.


-191 -



March Meeting, 1990


Professor Ness admitted that it is difficult to separate those two issues. The
intent is to recognize that the constant threat to free institutions is to focus on the
passions of the moment, and to look forward, not backward.
Following further comments, President Duderstadt concluded the discussion by
saying that this was a complex issue that would require further consideration of the
board after it had received the additional information that had been requested.
University of Michigan Hospitals Comparative Statistics Report
Vice President Womack stated that this report is meant to be more descriptive
of the actual performance and the financial position of the Hospitals than the
Semi-Annual Reports of Accounts Receivable have been. He introduced Mr. John
Forsyth, Executive Director of University of Michigan Hospitals, to present the report.
Mr. Forsyth displayed graphs that illustrated statistical measures that describe
three major components of financial performance: profitability, liquidity, and capital
structure, and that compare the UM Hospitals' ratios to the average of three groups of
hospitals: the Standard and Poors "AA" rated hospitals, the Financial Analysis
Services (FAS) teaching hospitals, and all hospitals subscribing to FAS. The report
also presents patient activity statistics which compare UM Hospitals' activity with
Midwest teaching hospitals and with 400-bed or larger hospitals who subscribe to
Monitrend. (All of the charts are included in the Regents Communication.)
Mr. Forsyth explained the information contained in each graph, and responded
to questions from the Regents. He concluded by commenting that "the bottom line is
that by virtually all statistical measures, our institution is very sound financially." Vice
President Womack noted that this is one reason that University officials are pressuring
Standard and Poors and Moody's to improve the Hospitals' bond ratings to AAA.
Several Regents commented that they were pleased at the excellent job being
done by Hospitals management. Regent Power observed that the form of the
presentation was much more helpful than past reports had been. Regent Nielsen
suggested that there be a presentation about current Hospitals' activities at a future
Regents' Meeting.
University of Michigan Hospitals Child Care Center
Vice President Womack presented a request for approval of the development of
a child care facility and recommended program (provided by the Seventh Street
Learning Place), and for appointment of Corporate Design Group as the project
architect.
Regent Power commented that he believes that "child care is an exceptionally
important issue, both for the University as a whole and for the Medical Center in
particular." He noted that this proposal does not call for general fund subsidy for the
child care program in this facility, and asked whether there would be an attempt to
identify funds which could be used to subsidize child care for families who would be
unable to afford the cost.
Mr. Forsyth responded that any excess amounts received from payments of the
regular rates that are not needed to cover operating costs would be used for


-192 -



March Meeting, 1990


scholarship funds. Regent Power noted that the hospitals' subsidy of the construction
and operation of the building constitute a substantial subsidy in itself. Mr. Forsyth
agreed, pointing out that this subsidy amounts to an initial cost of $2.5 million for
construction of the building, plus the cost of the land and about $200,000 per year in
operating costs.
Regent Power noted that the rates at the proposed facility will be $90 per week,
whereas the market rate for comparable child care programs in the Ann Arbor area is
about $130-$140 per week. Mr. Forsyth noted that the Hospitals will be able to charge
a lower amount because they are not recovering for the capital cost of the building,
land, and equipment, and the annual operating costs. He also stated that the wages
paid to the people employed by the child care center will be comparable to or above
those paid in the private market.
In response to other questions from the Regents, Mr. Forsyth and Mr. Gary
Calhoun, Director of Medical Center Planning, said that the priority for use of the
child care center would be hospital employees, then medical center employees with
patient care responsibilities, then other medical center employees. If a demand is
demonstrated, the hours will be expanded beyond those initially proposed; however, a
survey of hospital employees indicated that the current hours would fill the needs of
94% of the employees. Regent Baker observed that a child care facility would be
opening soon as part of the new North Campus Community Center, and said that
there ought to be some uniformity between all of the University's efforts in child care
provision.
Mr. Fred Mayer, University Planner, then presented schematic drawings of the
site and the building plans. The proposed site is the north side of Glazier Way,
midway between Oakway and Huron Parkway. He noted that discussions are
underway to include the site on city and university bus lines. If in the future there is a
need to expand the facility, national statistics about the maximum optimal size of a day
care center would dictate that expansion be accomplished by acquiring additional
buildings, rather than by adding on to the original building.
Following further discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the development
of a University of Michigan Hospitals child care facility on the proposed site on
Glazier Way, with the recommended program to be provided by the Seventh Street
Learning Place, and approval of Corporate Design Group of Ann Arbor as the project
architect.
Substance Abuse Joint Venture Proposal Between University of Michigan and
Chelsea Community Hospital
Vice President Womack noted that this proposal, to engage in a joint venture
with Chelsea Community Hospital, replaces a proposal that had been approved by the
Regents in January, 1989 to establish a 24-bed residential substance abuse treatment
at a site on Radrick Farms. The proposal now before the Regents is to establish a
separate legal entity with Chelsea Community Hospital (CCH) for assessment and
treatment of adult patients with alcohol/drug problems on the CCH campus. CCH
has been operating a substance abuse residential program on its campus since 1981.
The treatment capability provided by the proposed joint venture will meet the
clinical, research, and training objectives of the Department of Psychiatry with less risk


-193 -



March Meeting, 1990


to the Hospitals than would have been the case at the Radrick Farms site. The new,
36-bed substance abuse facility on the CCH campus will have a 30-year lease. The
proposed joint venture will take the form of a separate legal entity created by the
Regents and the CCH Board of Trustees.
Mr. Forsyth responded to questions from the Regents about specific financial
details of the lease arrangement, projected patient population, articles of
incorporation and bylaws, and malpractice insurance coverage. Following the
discussion, Regent Roach moved approval of the creation of a separate legal entity
with Chelsea Community Hospital for assessment and treatment of adult patients with
alcohol/drug problems on the Chelsea Community Hospital campus, subject to review
of the articles of incorporation and bylaws at a later date. Regent Nielsen seconded
the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Regent Brown left the meeting at 11:00 A.M., just prior to the vote.
1220 N. Washington Street, Owosso, Michigan
Regent Baker moved, seconded by Regent Nielsen, that the Regents approve
sale of the residence at 1220 N. Washington Street, Owosso, Michigan, at a minimum
of the appraised value, recognizing there may be costs incurred in marketing the
property. The proceeds from the sale will be divided two-thirds to the University and
one-third to Kalamazoo College. Following some discussion, the vote was taken and
the motion was approved unanimously.
Administrative Services Building Renovation
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded, approval of the revised
project budget for the Administrative Services Building renovation and authorization
to award the construction contract to the low bidders, W-3 Construction for general
and Boone and Darr, Inc. or Robert N. Lau, Inc., whichever firm offers the maximum
credit, for mechanical and electrical work. Following some discussion, the vote was
taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Law School Classroom Renovations
Regent Nielsen moved approval of renovation of room 120 and the Courtroom
in the Law School, as outlined in the Regents Communication, at an estimated cost of
$800,000. Regent Smith seconded the motion.
Discussion ensued about the necessity for the Law School to address the
problem of replacing the aluminum siding on the Legal Research Building. Regent
Power said that he would vote against the motion to emphasize the lack of response
from the Law School on this issue. Regent Roach and Regent Baker emphasized the
frustration the Regents feel in their not having gained the attention of the Law School
to correct the siding problem. Vice President Womack noted that replacement of the
siding would cost about $1 million, that he has expressed the Regents' interest in
having this project undertaken, and that the Dean is aware of the Regents' concern.
Following additional discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was
approved, with Regents Baker, Nielsen, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters in favor
and Regent Power opposed.


-194 -



March Meeting, 1990


Michigan League Improvements
Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Baker, moved that the Regents unanimously
approve proceeding with the first phase of a project for improvements to the Michigan
League. In response to questions from the Regents, Vice President Womack noted
that the improvements are primarily for the infrastructure, and that this measure funds
the absolute minimum in necessary improvements to keep the League in satisfactory
operating condition.
The vote was taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Parking Fees
Vice President Womack explained that the proposed fee schedule would raise
faculty/staff paid parking fees by 12.6% per year over a five-year period beginning in
fiscal year 1990-91. The proposal also includes a stipulation that $50 per employee
permit, increased by 12.6% each year for the next five years, be contributed from
department accounts. This would lessen the impact of the fee increase on faculty and
staff. Vice President Womack said that a significant portion of the increase is slated to
fund $18 million in deferred maintenance for parking structures. He also pointed out
that the proposed rates, which increase the rates to about $23 per month, are
substantially lower than the $50 per month currently charged for City of Ann Arbor
parking structure spaces.
Provost Vest added that the issue of parking fees had been widely discussed
among the executive officers and in budget committee meetings, and that he was in
agreement with the necessity to recommend the parking fee increase. Several Regents
expressed concern about the effect the increases would have on employees at the
lower end of the salary scale and commented about possible alternatives to the
proposed fee schedule. Vice President Womack said that the issue of parking fees is
constantly being re-evaluated, and that if a better alternative emerges, it would be
brought back to the Regents for consideration. Following further discussion, the vote
was taken, and the Regents unanimously approved increasing the faculty/staff paid
parking fees over a five-year period according to the schedule outlined in the Regents
Communication.
Regent Power left the meeting following this vote, at 11:40 A.M.
School of Social Work Building
Vice President Womack introduced a request to add approximately 30,000 gross
square feet to the new School of Social Work Building that had been approved by the
Regents in November, 1988. The additional space would result in maximum
utilization of the site. It would be planned as generic office and classroom areas for
which programmatic assignment would be made at a later date.
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Varner seconded, approval of the revised
program and budget for the School of Social Work Building. Regent Smith asked
whether the University's litigation against the proposed architect had been resolved;
Vice President Womack responded that it was still pending, but that the University is
continuing to hold discussions with the defendants.


-195 -



March Meeting, 1990


Following further discussion about the litigation, the vote was taken and the
motion carried, with Regents Baker, Nielsen, Roach, Varner, and Waters voting in
favor and Regent Smith abstaining.
Membership Dues for Dentistry Faculty
Regent Varner moved, and Regent Waters seconded, approval of payment of
membership dues in excess of $500 to the American Dental Association, the Michigan
Dental Association, the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons,
and the American Association of Orthodontists for the School of Dentistry faculty
members listed in the Regents Communication.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Provost Vest confirmed that the
dues are paid with discretionary funds from the Medical Service Plan revenues earned
from the clinical activities of the dentists in question. The provost and the president
noted that it has been a long-standing practice to pay such memberships, and the
University's policy regarding membership dues is that regental approval is required for
dues in excess of $500.
Regent Baker requested a further explanation of the membership policy.
Regent Roach pointed out that given the current state of tax law, it is appropriate that
these dues be paid by the employers. He also noted that the Medical Service Plan
funds are considered part of the compensation for Medical Service Plan members.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Transfer of the Macromolecular Research Center to Joint Administration by the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the College of Engineering
Vice President Kelly informed the Regents that the Macromolecular Research
Center will be formally transferred from the Institute for Science and Technology to
joint administrative oversight by the College of Engineering and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts. The formal transfer agreement is anticipated by the
end of the 1990 winter semester. Under the agreement, the name of the unit will be
changed to the Macromolecular Science and Engineering Center.
Policy on Childbearing and Dependent Care
Provost Vest introduced a request for approval of a policy on childbearing and
dependent care during the tenure probationary period. Under this policy, a woman
who bears one or more children during her tenure probationary period shall, upon
written request, be granted an exclusion of one year from the countable years of
service that constitute her tenure probationary period. Additionally, a faculty member
charged with caring for dependents may, upon written request, be granted an exclusion
of one year form the countable years of service that constitute that individual's tenure
probationary period. He noted that the policy will apply to all three campuses, and is
effective retroactive to January 2, 1990. (The complete text of the policy can be found
in the action request.)
Regent Smith moved approval of the policy on childbearing and dependent
care; Regent Nielsen seconded the motion.


-196 -



March Meeting, 1990


In response to a question from Regent Varner, Provost Vest noted that the
dependent care component of the policy is conditional on the approval of the dean,
whereas the child care component is granted upon request. He also emphasized that
this is not a leave policy. Faculty members will continue to carry out their basic
responsibilities in teaching, research, and service, but with the recognition that excess
hours will decrease during the time period in question.
Regent Varner said that she was delighted that the University was establishing
this policy, and that she was very much in support of it.
Regent Baker commented that the policy could be construed as discriminatory
toward men. Provost Vest noted that the policy had been examined by the General
Counsel's office and found to be legally sound. Regent Baker observed that because
the effect of the policy would be to extend the probationary period, it was not really
cost neutral. Provost Vest responded that any additional costs would be very marginal,
and predicted that the policy would not be widely used.
The vote was then taken and the motion to approve the policy on childbearing
and dependent care passed unanimously.
Offer of Water Street Pavilion to University of Michigan-Flint
Chancellor Jones announced that the City of Flint had offered to lease the
Water Street Pavilion to the University of Michigan-Flint for a three-year period at a
nominal cost. He noted that the offer had been met with enthusiastic support by the
UM-Flint community, and said that the Flint campus intends to conduct a study of the
long-term impact of accepting the Water Street Pavilion on overall campus
development.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of February,
1990 totalled $1,033.90. The next meeting will take place on April 19 and 20, 1990.
Rich ard L. ennedy, S cretary


-197 -



APRIL MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 19, 1990
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and
Vice Presidents Johnson, Kelly, Swain and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
CESF Report, Ann Arbor Campus
The President introduced Professor Roy Penchansky, Chair of the Committee
on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF), who addressed the Regents about the
compensation status of senior faculty at the University of Michigan. Professor
Penchansky presented data showing that professors at the University of Michigan rank
thirteenth in compensation levels compared to their nineteen peer institutions.
Associate and assistant professors each rank fifth.
Professor Penchansky also explained that the substantial inequities between the
salaries paid to "continuing" senior faculty as opposed to newly-hired senior faculty
leads not only to inequities between professors within a unit, but to situations where
junior faculty earn more than senior faculty. These inequities affect morale and
productivity among senior faculty and promote the idea among junior faculty that it
would not benefit them economically to remain at the University of Michigan for their
entire careers.
To help solve this problem, the CESF is proposing that there be a three-year
program of supplemental salary allocations to increase the salaries of professors, with
a goal of elevating professors' salaries to among the top ten of the University's peer
schools within three years. The cost of these supplemental allocations would be about
$1 million per year, or about 1% of the instructional salary pool, for three years.
Professor Penchansky responded to questions from the Regents about the report
and recommendations. It was emphasized that faculty compensation levels started
eroding during the severe budget constraints imposed by the state's fiscal crisis of the
late 1970's and early 1980's, and that the resources have not been forthcoming to
alleviate the situation.
Status of 1990-91 State Budget Request
Provost Vest reviewed the request that had been presented in October for an
increase in state support of $47.2 million (8.8%) to fund the University's critical needs.
Included in that amount was $37.2 million for minimum needs, which includes fixed
costs ($12.9 million); new space operating costs ($2.1 million); a base compensation
program of 5% ($13.2 million); student financial aid ($5.3 million); minority faculty
and student recruitment and retention ($2.0 million); and new space debt service,


-199 -



April Meeting, 1990


library acquisitions, and research excellence fund growth ($1.7 million total). The
remainder of the request consists of $6 million for restoration and new initiatives and
$10 million for other critical needs.
The University proposed that the $37.2 million in minimum needs be funded by
the state and the University, and that the remainder of the increase be funded by
reallocation within the University (for the restoration and new initiatives) and by the
University as funding becomes available (other critical needs). Provost Vest noted
that in November, 1989, President Duderstadt had announced the University's
intention to limit the 1990-91 tuition increase for Michigan resident undergraduates to
6.5%, and that concurrently, he had challenged policy makers to address the issue of
Michigan's declining support of higher education relative to most other states.
The Governor's current budget recommendation calls for an increase in state
support of 4.75% ($12 million), while the Senate recommendation calls for a 4.89%
increase ($12.4 million). The House has not yet made a recommendation. Provost
Vest displayed a chart indicating that these recommendations would lead to an
approximate shortfall of $8.2 million in the University's 1990-91 budget. He pointed
out the actions and planning that are currently underway relative to both revenues and
expenditures to deal with the anticipated revenue shortfall.
While noting that the University is continuing its efforts to manage costs while
maintaining quality, Provost Vest concluded that "if revenues are sustained over time
at levels currently projected for 1990-91, we will be severely frustrated in our ability to
provide accessible excellence in education and in our ability to provide the intellectual
and societal leadership which the state and nation need and expect... ".
Vice President Kennedy commented that he believes that there will not be
much change in the current projections for state support, and that he does not expect
dramatic improvements in the subsequent budget year. He also reported that the
House of Representatives is likely to approve an increase of $500 million in state
bonding capacity, but that the fate of this proposal in the Senate is unclear. Passage of
the measure would enable the Ann Arbor campus to proceed with four building
projects: the Instructional Technology Integration Center, and renovations of the East
Engineering Building, the Randall laboratory in the Physics Building, and the C.C.
Little Building. Passage of this measure would also ensure about $12 to $13 million
each for building projects on the Flint and Dearborn campuses.
Regent Roach pointed out that given these projections, it seems likely that there
will be an $8.2 million budget shortfall, and asked the provost what plans had been
developed to solve this problem. Provost Vest responded that revenue can be
somewhat enhanced through increases in graduate student and out-of-state tuition, but
because the largest portion of the $37.2 million minimum needs consists of fixed costs,
the University will face some difficult choices in balancing the budget.
Student Loan Default Rate
Vice President Swain reported that the Office of Education had informed the
University that its 1989 student loan default rate was only 1.7%.


-200 -



April Meeting, 1990


Reconciliation for Faculty Members Davis, Nickerson, and Markert
President Duderstadt introduced Professor Gayl Ness, Chair of the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA), to provide further information
about the faculty's request for the Regents to make a gesture of reconciliation for the
three faculty members, two of whom had been dismissed and the other temporarily
suspended in 1954. Although SACUA has not generated a formal proposal, it believes
that it is important to remember that succumbing to the passions of the moment
sometimes creates threats to cherished values of academic freedom and free speech.
Professor Ness reported that many faculty members think that an appropriate gesture
of reconciliation would be establishment of an annual lectureship to "remind ourselves
of the values we hold dear."
Regent Baker observed that he doesn't see how a conclusion can be reached
without a re-examination of the events surrounding the suspensions and dismissals and
of the individuals involved. Such an examination would pose a danger to the
University by bringing up old issues that had since been laid to rest.
Regent Power disagreed, noting that the real issue is not to look backward and
examine all of the events in the past, but rather to look forward to discover what the
University can do to prevent hindering academic freedom and freedom of inquiry in
the future.
Regent Smith pointed out that the incident under discussion was not the first
time that someone had been dismissed from the University because of his beliefs. She
read from a recent newspaper clipping which told of the removal in 1917 of a German
faculty member because of his "pro-German attitude."
Professor Ness reiterated that SACUA is concerned with the future, not with
dwelling on the past.
President Duderstadt noted that this would be the last occasion during which
Professor Ness would address the Regents as Chair of SACUA, and thanked him for
his "marvelous leadership."
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of February 15 and 16, 1990. On a
motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously
approved the minutes of the meeting of March 22 and 23, 1990.
Reports
Report on Investment Transactions. Vice President Womack informed the
Regents that due to changes in the banking industry, rating agencies had recently been
issuing lower ratings for many bank securities. Consequently, some securities in the
University Investment Pool (UIP) have been downgraded, although currently, only
one has a rating below that required by the University guidelines for UIP purchases.
Vice President Womack reported that credit ratings of each security in the University
Investment Pool are reviewed monthly.


-201 -



April Meeting, 1990


Plant Extension Report. Regent Baker noted that the cost estimate of the
renovation component of the Maternal and Child Health Center is significantly over
budget. Vice President Womack said that the project will be evaluated to determine
how best to either scale back the project or otherwise solve that problem satisfactorily.
In response to other comments, he also reported that administrators are reviewing the
issue of whether to renovate the old facility or replace it; a proposal would probably
be ready to present to the Regents by the early fall of 1990.
Litigation Report. Regent Roach observed that one of the items in this report
involves litigation against the Michigan Daily, and asked who is responsible for the
defense and the legal fees. Vice President Womack responded that the General
Counsel is in the process of determining whether the University is a party to the suit
and who should be involved in its defense. Regent Power noted that in the past, the
Board in Control of Student Publications undertook responsibility for litigation
involving the Daily. Regent Baker said that because the Michigan Daily is an
independent entity, it ought to assume responsibility for its own legal defense.
In response to a comment from Regent Baker about the status of the litigation
between the University and the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana
Laws (NORML) and about penalties for students who use illegal drugs, it was noted
that illegal drug use is prosecuted under state law. Regent Baker said that the
University ought to set an example in efforts to prevent the use of drugs.
President Duderstadt noted that the University is under a federal mandate to
devise a plan to deal with the issue of drugs in the workplace, and that a substance
abuse task force is currently preparing recommendations. Regent Roach observed
that it appeared that many of the participants in the Hash Bash and the NORML rally
on the Diag on April 1 were from places other than Ann Arbor. Regent Roach stated
that the University "ought to take all reasonable steps within the s law to discourage that
kind of activity next year." The President responded that the University had every
intention of doing so.
Vice President Womack responded to a question from Regent Smith about
another new case listed in the report and to a question from Regent Baker about the
status of the Sims-Varner litigation.
Research Report. Vice President Kelly pointed out a correction to one of the
listings in the report on Projects Established Research and Other Activities. He also
submitted the monthly report on Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted reports of gifts received for the month of
March, 1990. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents received the following gifts, with thanks and in accord with their terms and
conditions:


-202 -



April Meeting, 1990


Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                           25,000
Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
for anatomy support in the Medical School                                     5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                 127,500
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            9,000
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                            9,750
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Arco Marine, Inc., Long Beach, California
for naval architecture scholarships in the College of Engineering             5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                            11,917
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis Minnesota
for support of the University Musical Society                                 8,933
ASDA Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          150,000
Automobile Club of Michigan, Auto Club Insurance Association, Dearborn
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Clarence Bierling, Denver, Colorado
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,000
Stephen J. Bloom Charitable Trust, Clarendon Hills, Illinois
for the Stephen J. Bloom Library Acquisition Fund in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,000
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Bentley Library, Michigan Historical Collections                      5,000
Stewart R. Boyer Estate
for unrestricted support of the Schools of Law and Music                     15,000
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint                              26,000
Bristol-Myers Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Associates Program, and scholarships in the School of Business Administration  15,000
Bristol-Myers/Squibb Company, New York, New York
for support of the College of Pharmacy                                       10,000
Margaret L. Brown Estate
for the George Granger Brown Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering     46,300
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          10,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                    55,500
Chevron U. S. A., Inc., San Francisco, California
for support of the College of Engineering                                    14,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           14,998
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
for the Joseph Savarino Memorial Fund in the School of Music                  5,000
George R. Corey, Millbrae, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Arthur Lyon Cross Trust
for the Arthur Lyon Cross Award, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  83,836
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           23,674
D'Arcy, Masius, Benton and Bowles, Inc. New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration     7,143
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                7,250
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for tle solar car project in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching
Gifts                                                                         9,483
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support of the School of Business Administration the Colleges of Engineering,
Pharmacy, and Literature, Science, and the Arts; and the Institute of Science andTechnology                                                                  107,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fund at the Michigan Historical Collections            10,000


-203 -



April Meeting, 1990


W. Hawkins Ferry Estate
for the W. Hawkins Ferry Fund in the Museum of Art                          88,201
O. C. Fischer, Inc., Royal Oak
for support of the Medical School                                           30,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Institute of
Public Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social Research                63,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                       5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and the University of Michigan-Dearborn  133,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                  242,500
William & Martha Ford Fund, Detroit
for support of the University of Michigan-Dearborn                          10,000
Mrs. Robert E. Frane, Webster Groves, Missouri
for the Robert E. Frane Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  50,000
Freedman, Krochmal & Golden, P. C., Southfield
for the John D. Pierce Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Donna Wickham Furth Fund of the Furth Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering, and
for support of the Medical School                                           22,500
Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation San Francisco California
for unrestricted support ot the School of Music                             20,000
William T. Grant Foundation New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work                                   11,538
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          40,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the Community Dentistry Program in the School of Dentistry              10,000
Hitachi, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering                                  24,869
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for rear view mirror research in the Institute of Science and Technology    25,000
International Education Services, Moraga, California
for Armenian Studies at the University of Michigan-Dearborn                  5,000
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Nursing, and the Museum of Art                  5,900
Jacobson Stores, Jackson
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering                     10,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario
for research in the Medical School                                           6,750
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          15,326
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,000
Carl Kaufman Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      10,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 10,000
Kraft General Foods Foundation, Glenview, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      5,650
L. S. B. Leakey Foundation, Pasadena, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             5,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     15,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning                                                                     5,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          21,000


-204 -



April Meeting, 1990


Edward S. Mardigian, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Library                              5,000
Lucille P. Markey Charitable Trust, Miami, Florida
for neuroscience research in the Medical School                           1,168,426
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    9,683
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for the John T. Dempsey Memorial Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn   5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology      30,000
David Moscow-Linda Moscow Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted endowment support of the University of Michigan            10,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the Urban and Regional Affairs Project, the University of Michigan-Flint  30,000
National Alopecia Areata Foundation San Rafael, California
for research in the Medical School                                          15,500
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                          10,000
National Neurofibromatosis Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          15,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Plymouth
for support of the Institute of Science and Technology                       5,000
Panasonic Industrial Company, Secaucus, New Jersey
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering                      5,000
Theodore Papes, Jr., Chappaqua, New York
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
University of Michigan                                                       5,000
Bertha I. Parkhurst Estate
for the Myron E. Wegman Fund in the School of Public Health                 13,504
Barbara Standish Patten Estate
for the Bradley M. Patten Memorial Fund in the Medical School, and for the C. S.
Mott Hospital                                                               16,411
Francisco Penberthy, Utica, New York
1,769.9 shares of the Lord Abbett Mutual Fund; for the Francisco Penberthy
Scholarship                                                                 18,124
Prudential Foundation, Newark, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,000
Pryor Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Pryor Foundation Fund in the School of Business Administration      91,648
William Putich, Brecksville, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Dr. and Mrs. Rodney J. Rogers, Vicksburg
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Lois R. Ross Trust, Naples, Florida
for the Coleman J. and Lois R. Ross Scholarship in the Medical School      173,450
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work, and in the Institute for Social Research  36,917
Saginaw Machine Systems, Inc., Saginaw
for research in the College of Engineering                                  25,000
Nataline Vincenti Scott Estate
for the Guido A. and Agnes N. Vincenti Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 5,950
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
for the Siemens Gift Fund in the Medical School                             86,895
Alva Gordon Sink Revocable Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Charles and Alva Gordon Sink Fund in the School of Nursing          10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            29,800
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies                                                         10,000
Time, Inc., New York New York
for the Time Fellowship in the School of Business Administration, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                               7,400
Clayton M. and Anna May Timmons, Farmington
for the Allen L. Shields Memorial Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                10,000


-205 -



April Meeting, 1990


Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Music, the Center for the Education of Women, and
the Museum of Art                                                           126,000
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Union Carbide Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut
for the Union Carbide Fund m the College of Engineering                      10,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,120
USX Foundation, Inc. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Employee hatching Gifts                                                   9,360
Ella McCollum Vahlteich Estate
for the Ella McCollum Vahlteich Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy, and
for support of the Medical School                                             9,037
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vanderkloot, Bloomfield Hills
for the Carl Petersen and Mel Fineberg Michigan Daily Scholarship Fund        5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy           16,500
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,680
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education, and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                         41,997
Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Eleanor Wernette, Ann Arbor
11 740.49 shares of various securities; for the J. Philip Wernette Fellowship in the
School of Business Administration                                            95,638
Wexner Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
for research in the School of Social Work                                    74,850
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      56,594
Roy E. Willy Trust
for the Roy E. Willy Research Professorship in the Law School               605,764
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for research in the University Library                                       10,000
World Health Organization Zurich, Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and in the School of Public Health  47,241
Wyeth Ayerst, American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                            7,500
Zenkel Foundation New York, New York
for the Zenkel Funds and other support in the School of Business Administration,
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Department of Athletics  30,050
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Frank Burgess, Ypsilanti
a Native American, woven basket; for the Museum of Anthropology
Julia Cheng, Ottawa Ontario, Canada
a Chinese album containing letters of scholars from the Ming Dynasty; for the Museum of Art
James V. McConnell, Ann Arbor
an IBM PS/2, Model 80 computer and software; for the Department of Psychology
John T. Norton Estate
a Chinese porcelain urn, with marble pedestal; for the Museum of Art
Oxford Historical Society, Oxford, New York
items from the Philippines, originally collected ca 1900-1910; for the Museum of Anthropology
Richard W. Trytten, Ann Arbor
a buckskin pipe bag of Plains Indian origin; for the Museum of Anthropology
Theodor and Jane Von Voigtlander, Pinckney
real estate located in Putnam Township, Livingston County; for the University of Michigan
Hospitals


-206 -



April Meeting, 1990


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the following Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990
Christopher H. Achen, Ph.D., Professor of Political Science
Philip H. Bucksbaum, Ph.D  Professor of Physics
Kweku A. Garbrah, Ph.D., Professor of Greek and Latin
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Arthur W. Burks, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor
Emeritus of Philosophy, reappointed to active status, for a two-month period, May 1, 1990
John G. Cross, Professor ofEconomics, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Academic Appointments,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Associate Dean for Academic
Appointments, for a one-year term
Robert Lyons Danly, Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, and Director of the
Center for Japanese Studies, reappointed Director of the Center for Japanese Studies, for a threeyear term
Jack W. Meiland, from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Long Range
Planning and Curriculum, College of Literature Science, and the Arts, to Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure, and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science
and the Arts for a two-year-and-two-month term
Maurice J. Sinnott, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, reappointed to active
status, for nine-month period, April 1, 1990
William S. Smith, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
March 1, 1990
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1990
Arnold P. Morawa, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, appointed Assistant Dean for Alumni
Relations and Continuing Education, School of Dentistry
Harrison L. Morton, Professor of Forest Pathology, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean for
Administration, School of Natural Resources, for a three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Glenn F. Knoll, for a four-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1994, vice Arch W. Naylor, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Martha J. Vicinus, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30,1993, vice Joseph L. Blotner, term expired
Jens C. Zorn, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Robert L. Kuczkowski, term expired
Assistant Dean for Development and External Relations. The Regents
approved the establishment of the position of Assistant Dean for Development and
External Relations in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective July 1,
1990.
Assistant Dean for Information Technology. The Regents approved the
establishment of the position of Assistant Dean for Information Technology in the
Medical School, effective May 1, 1990.


-207 -



April Meeting, 1990


Emanuel N. Maisel Professorship of Oncology. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Emanuel N. Maisel Professorship of Oncology, effective May 1,
1990.
Associate Vice President for Government Relations. The Regents approved a
change in the title of Keith E. Molin from Assistant to the Vice President for
Government Relations to Associate Vice President for Government Relations,
effective May 1, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective March 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistr
Chao-Wen Wang, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, February 26, 1990
Janice J. Wilmot, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, January 1, 1990
Medical School
Angus T. Baird, M.B.Ch.B., Lecturer in Radiology
Bernard A. Fox, Ph.D., Instructor in Surgery, March 15, 1990
Herbert F. Gretz III M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1990
Randall T. Loder, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990
School of Music
Stephen J. Rush, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Dance
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
VitallJ V. Shevoroshkin, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Slavic Languages and
Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, April 1 - June 30, 1990
Medical School
Bernard W. Agranoff, Director of the Mental Health Research Institute and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, Departments of Biological Chemistry and Psychiatry, duty off campus,
January 23 - April 21, 1989 and January 16 - April 15, 1990
John T. Headington, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Professor of Dermatology, without tenure,
duty off campus, March 1 - 31, 1990
David J. Knesper, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, March 1 - August 31,
1990
School of Music
Charles R. Fisher, Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Aaron Finerman, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, December 31,
1989
Chester R. Leach, Assistant Professor of English, March 5, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Mark E. Bagnoli, Assistant Professor of Economics
Severin J. Borenstein, Assistant Professor of Economics and Public Policy


-208 -



April Meeting, 1990


Carmen M. Nieto, Lecturer in Spanish Literature
James G. Turner, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Medical School
Harumi Hachiya, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, March 31, 1990
School of Music
Barry L. Golman, Assistant Professor of Theatre
Mitchell Krieger, Assistant Professor of Music
Richard M. Rosenberg, Assistant Professor of Conducting
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Jane Taylor, Professor of Biology, with tenure
Elizabeth A. Graykowski, Lecturer in English
UM-Flint School of Management
Susan E. Moeller, Assistant Professor of Finance
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Memorials
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
adopted the following Memorial:
Chester Raymond Leach, assistant professor of English in the College of
Engineering, died on March 5, 1990, in San Jose, California, of a heart attack.
Professor Leach was born on July 23, 1930, in Lewiston, Pennsylvania. He
earned his B.S. degree in 1951 and his M.A. degree in 1957 from Bucknell University,
and earned his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1966. His dissertation
was entitled A Critical Edition of Tennyson's "In Memoriam". After serving as a
teaching fellow for five years and then a lecturer for one year in the English
department in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in 1963, he joined the
Department of English (now known as the Program in Humanities) in the College of
Engineering as an instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1966.
Professor Leach taught such courses as "The Modern European Novel in
Transition," "Major American Authors," and "American Literature of the 1920s". He
wrote and saw published many poems; this was a major creative thrust for him in
recent years. He judged poetry contests for the Detroit Free Press, and judged essays,
fiction, and poems for the annual Cooley Contest of the College of Engineering.
Some of the comments that students made about Professor Leach's courses are
that he "keeps class interesting -- can't fall asleep even if I tried..." "Professor Leach
was very accessible, which was a tremendous help in this course. Discussions were
always interesting -- never boring." "Professor Leach was (is) easily the most
excited/exciting lecturer I've had at the University of Michigan. His zeal for the
material inspired me to work harder at the papers..." "Outstanding literature course,
both in material covered and in lectures discussing material. Professor is an excellent
lecturer, which is rare even in a literature course. I feel I learned a great deal and was
exposed to many avenues of thought (which I will continue to investigate beyond the
course)..."
Having arranged for early retirement, Professor Leach completed his teaching
career here in December, 1989. He was looking forward to a leave of absence, to be
followed by retirement in name, if not in fact, when he died suddenly. The Regents
acknowledge his death with sadness and extend their sympathy to his surviving family
and friends.
-209 -



April Meeting, 1990


Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authorities in each case, the Regents
approved amendments to previously approved degree lists. They also approved the
tentative doctoral degree list for the May, 1990 Commencement.
Bond Rating
Vice President Womack announced that on April 5th, Moody's rating service
had increased the University Hospitals' debt rating from Al to AA, noting that last
year, Standard & Poors had increased the University's rating to AA+, the highest
rating for any public institution in the country.
Allocation of Funds Among Common Stock Managers
Vice President Womack reported that, in keeping with the recommendations of
Cambridge Associates, the University's investment managers would be shifting the way
that funds are allocated among common stock managers by a) gradually decreasing
the value emphasis of its stock portfolio and increasing the growth component; b)
decreasing manager diversification within the common stock area as diversification is
gained through investments in alternative assets; and c) using funds from the growth
and income managers as a source for investments in alternative assets, global stocks,
and more aggressively growth-oriented managers.
As a result, he announced that the University had recently allocated $3 million
in new dollars to Ariel (a growth manager), and that an additional $5 million would be
shifted from PanAgora (a value manager) to Ariel at the end of April. Cambridge had
advised that the differences in style between the University's current managers is not
as great as had originally been believed, and had recommended eventually decreasing
the number of common stock managers.
Vice President Womack then responded to questions from the Regents about
how these actions fit into the University's overall investment strategy. He explained
that the current action was a step toward reducing the number of managers while
maximizing the differences in style (value or growth) between the managers.
Property Exchange with Pellston Public Schools
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with an exchange of adjacent 160-acre parcels of
land in Emmet County with the Pellston Schools. This would allow the Biological
Station to obtain control of an additional section of the Maple River, and would aid
the Biological Station in its efforts to protect the habitat of an aquatic beetle,
identified as a rare and endangered species.
76.56 Vacant Acres, Chesterfield Township, Macomb County, Michigan
Regent Brown moved, seconded by Regent Varner, that the University accept
an offer of $500,000 for 76.56 vacant acres in Chesterfield Township in Macomb
County, subject to the conditions outlined in the Regents Communication. One of the
terms of the offer is that the University obtain environmental testing and a wetlands
assessment of the property. Regent Baker suggested that in future transactions of this


-210 -



April Meeting, 1990


type, perhaps some of the cost of such studies could be borne by the purchaser.
Following further discussion, the motion was approved unanimously.
North Campus Family Housing Community Center
Vice President Womack reported that University Housing had identified
sufficient funding to provide a deck, additional lighting, and a lobby counter for this
project.
School of Social Work Building
Vice President Womack introduced University Planner Fred Mayer to present
the preliminary design for the new School of Social Work Building, to be built on the
southwest corner of South University and East University Streets.
Mr. Mayer used schematic drawings and a scale model of the proposed new
building to describe the plans for the interior and the exterior of the new facility. He
noted that one of the reasons for placing the building on this site was to take
advantage of the large number of classrooms available in the School of Education
Building. He displayed photographs of architectural features of nearby buildings that
had been used as an aid to ensure that the exterior of the new building would
harmonize with the existing environment.
Mr. Mayer responded to questions and comments from the Regents about
specific aspects of the design. Regent Smith expressed concern that the School of
Social Work Building would not contain any classrooms. President Duderstadt noted
that the siting of this building adjacent to the School of Education Building was very
consciously done to facilitate the integration of some of the their programs. Provost Vest
said that philosophically, the administration did not want classrooms to "belong" to
individual schools and colleges on the central campus, because this philosophy results
in the most efficient use of space. Finally, he noted that this plan had been very
carefully thought through and had been agreed to jointly by the two schools.
Following further discussion, the Regents commended the planners and
architect for the care and thought that had gone into the plans for this building, which
they felt would be a handsome addition to the campus. On a motion by Regent Baker,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted unanimously to approved the
preliminary design and authorize completion of the plans for the School of Social
Work Building. Regent Smith was absent from the room when the vote was taken.
Renovations
Regent Varner moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, the following projects: 1) renovation of the Medical Science II Building for
the Department of Anatomy; 2) renovation of the Kresge Medical Research Building I
for the Department of Nuclear Medicine; 3) conversion of the existing ventilation
system in the Engineering Building 1A to a variable air volume system; and 4)
renovation of space in the Art and Architecture Building to house the Urban
Technological and Environmental Planning Ph.D. Program.


-211 -



April Meeting, 1990


Substance Abuse Joint Venture
This is a followup to the Regents' previous approval for creation of a separate
legal entity with Chelsea Community Hospital (CCH) for assessment and treatment of
adult patients with alcohol/drug problems on the CCH campus. Regent Brown
moved, and Regent Roach seconded approval of Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
to create the separate legal entity with Chelsea Community Hospital for the purposes
described above, and approval of John D. Forsyth, John F. Greden, and Lawrence B.
Lindemer as the Regents' appointed members of the Board of Directors for the new
entity.
Regent Smith pointed out that the action item stated that the executive director
of the substance abuse joint venture would be a University of Michigan employee, but
that section 4.04 of the proposed bylaws stated that "the executive program director
shall be selected by the Board of Directors." Dr. Zuidema responded that the intent,
expressed in the letter of understanding, was that the executive director would always
be a University of Michigan employee. Following some discussion, it was determined
that the proposed bylaws were in error. The motion was therefore amended to state
that section 4.04 of the proposed bylaws be changed to read: "The executive program
director shall be appointed by the University of Michigan."
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously, subject to
the change noted above for Section 4.04 of the Bylaws.
Franqois-Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Nielsen seconded, approval of a revised
budget for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Building as described in the Regents
Communication.
In response to a question from Regent Roach about the impact of the additional
debt on the University's budget, University Investment Officer Norman Herbert stated
that gift proceeds would be used for repayment, not student fees. Regent Roach
pointed out that if the debt service must be paid from the unit's current funds, this
would impact their budget. Vice President Womack noted that the College had
already decided to allocate a portion of its budget for this project. Provost Vest added
that because these funds represent opportunity costs that place the College at risk,
they would create an added impetus to the College's fundraising efforts over the next
few years.
Regent Baker observed that it would be advisable, as part of the preliminary
planning process, for the University to develop models for showing the costs and the
effects on future budgets of all of planned new space. Vice President Womack
responded that there already is such a procedure in place by which prior to beginning
construction of every new project, estimates of initial and continuing costs are
determined, and that he was in complete agreement with Regent Baker's concern.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.


-212 -



April Meeting, 1990


Conferral of Honorary Alumni Status on Bo and Millie Schembechler
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolutions:
Glenn Edward (Bo) Schembechler
Glenn Edward (Bo) Schembechler, a native son of Ohio, a graduate of Ohio's
Miami University, and a former assistant football coach at The Ohio State University,
arrived at the University of Michigan in December, 1968. He was a man unknown to
most in the Michigan Family -- a man with a strong competitive spirit, deep convictions,
high standards, and a fierce sense of loyalty.
In the more than two decades that Bo Schembechler served as the head football
coach at the University of Michigan, he:
- became Michigan's winningest football coach, winning 194 games while
losing 48 with five ties;
- led his teams to 13 Big Ten championships;
- saw 17 of his teams invited to compete in post-season bowl games;
- saw 39 different players earn All-America honors;
- saw nearly 100 different Wolverines earn First Team All Big Ten honors.
The team! The team! The team! It was Bo Schembechler's commitment to "the
team " that provided the basis for the loyalty that became a trademark of the Schembechler
years. Bo's loyalty to his "boys" was reciprocated in 1989 when over 400 of "Bo's Boys"
returned to Ann Arbor to pay tribute to their former coach -- their teacher -- their friend.
Bo Schembechler's accomplishments have not been limited to the gridiron. When
he was named Michigan's Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, he brought the same
dedication and determination to his duties as an administrator that had made him such
an outstanding coach. The women's athletic program was given new emphasis. He took
personal responsibility for raising $12 million to fund a new "Center of Champions"
football complex, which is now nearing completion on the Athletic Campus. His goal as
Athletic Director, he said, was to be "no different from [that of] any other administrator in
the University -- We want to be the best in the nation!"
For more than two decades, Bo Schembechler has led the University of Michigan
to record levels of achievement. In so doing, he has insisted on doing the right things, for
the right reasons, and most importantly, doing them the right way!
Bo Schembechler is a man whose name has become synonymous with the
University of Michigan, and whose legacy of dedication, excellence, and success, practiced
and achieved in strict accordance with the rules, will be the standard by which others
forever will be measured. It is therefore with deep gratitude and sincere appreciation that
the Regents of the University of Michigan do hereby confer upon Glenn Edward (Bo)
Schembechler the title of Honorary Alumnus of the University of Michigan.
Millie Schembechler
Mildred (Millie) Schembechler, native of Mississippi, nurse, wife, mother, and
community leader, arrived at the University of Michigan in 1968, the unknown wife of a
new, and as yet unknown, football coach. In the two decades since her arrival, we have
all come to know her and have been blessed with her strength, her strong sense of loyalty,
and her basic sense of decency.
When Bo Schembechler was named Michigan's head football coach in 1968, it
was Millie Schembechler who assumed the responsibility of relocating her family and
helping the families of newly-named assistant coaches settle in an unfamiliar and


-213 -



April Meeting, 1990


pressure-packed environment.
When Bo was felled by a heart attack on the eve of the 1970 Rose Bowl game, it
was Millie who assumed the task of reassuring her family, and of calming the fears and
restoring the confidence of the young athletes who had lost their coach, while assuring the
rest of the world that things would be restored to normal.
When Bo underwent open heart surgery in 1976, it was again to Millie that a
growing and dedicated family of Michigan friends turned for reassurance, comfort, and
leadership. Again, it was Millie Schembechler who provided that support with calm, with
confidence, and with feeling.
In 1987, when Bo underwent open heart surgery for a second time, Millie
Schembechler was, once again, the person to whom an anxious public turned for
leadership. Once again, Millie was there.
As the University of Michigan neared its centennial year of intercollegiate football,
Millie Schembechler led a team of dedicated volunteers in researching 100 years of
Michigan football, locating memorabilia, and designing the centennial exhibit, which drew
thousands of viewers to CrislerArena throughout the course of the centennial celebration.
Millie Schembechler, having dedicated her life to helping people, has offered her
talents to many charitable causes. Most notable of these has been the creation of
"Leaders in Prevention," which is an organization of volunteers dedicated to assisting in
community efforts to fight drug abuse.
A nurse, a wife, a mother, and a leader, Millie Schembechler has been an
exemplary citizen of the University, the community, and the state. Leading by example,
she has demonstrated grace under pressure and strength in times of stress: She is the
embodiment of all that the University of Michigan represents. It is therefore with deep
gratitude, respect, and appreciation, that the Regents of the University of Michigan do
hereby confer upon Mildred (Millie) Schembechler the title of Honorary Alumna of the
University of Michigan.
The meeting then recessed so the participants could move to the Michigan
Union to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Andy Duncan, graduate student, advocating the use of recycled materials;
Zachary Kittrie and??, students, on the student government election; Aaron Williams,
student and immediate past president of MSA, on the accomplishments of his
administration at MSA; Ron Moldovan, staff member, about the parking fee increase;
and Robert Morgan, citizen, about Avis Maria's grievance against the University.
Following Public Comments, the meeting reconvened in the Regents' Room at
4:35 P.M. Regent Brown, Regent Nielsen, Regent Waters, Chancellor Wilson, and
Vice President Johnson were absent.
Establishment of the Department of Dance in the School of Music
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved changing the status of the program in dance to that of the
Department of Dance in the School of Music. The motion was approved unanimously
by all five Regents present.


-214 -



April Meeting, 1990


Regent Brown returned to the table at 4:40 P.M.
Report on the Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts,
and Agreements, FY1989
Vice President Kelly submitted the annual report for FY 1989 on the
implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and
Agreements. In response to Regents' questions, Vice President Kelly observed that
the policy has had no impact on the faculty's desire to engage in classified research.
Report of the Biological Research Review Committee
Vice President Kelly submitted the annual report of the Biological Research
Review Committee for FY 1989.
Regent Baker left the meeting temporarily at 4:45 P.M.
Membership in the Pacific Asian Consortium for International Business Education
and Research
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved renewal of membership for the School of Business
Administration in the Pacific Asian Consortium for International Business Education
and Research.
Academic Calendar Revisions for the University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved a revision of UM-Flint's academic calendar for the Fall 1990 term by which
commencement will be rescheduled from December 20, 1990 to January 8, 1991.
Membership in the Diabetes Educational and Minority Health Coalition
Regent Varner moved, and Regent Smith seconded, approval of membership
for the University of Michigan Hospitals in the Diabetes Educational and Minority
Health Coalition.
Regent Power noted that the University spends a large sum of money on
memberships, and asked that memberships be reviewed to determine if there are any
ways to save costs in this area.
Regent Baker returned to the table at 4:48 P.M.; he noted that the total amount
spent on memberships had increased over the past several years.
Vice President Kennedy responded that he would review membership
expenditures again to see if there are any areas in which costs can be reduced.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


-215 -



April Meeting, 1990


Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:00 P.M.
Regents' travel, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of March, 1990
totalled $135.65. The next meeting will take place May 17 and 18, 1990.
Richard L. enne, Secry


-216 -



MAY MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 17, 1990
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present,
as was Chancellor Wilson. Chancellor Jones was absent; Provost Wong attended the
meeting in his place.
CESF Report, UM-Dearborn
Professor Arefaine Yohannes, Chair of the Committee on the Economic Status
of the Faculty at UM-Dearborn, addressed the Regents about CESF's current
concerns. Professor Yohannes pointed out that the gap between average salaries at
UM-Dearborn compared with those at other class IIA institutions has narrowed
somewhat since last year, UM-Dearborn's average salaries are still below those of
most of its peer institutions. CESF calculates that about $375,000 would be needed to
bring average salaries at UM-Dearborn to those of peer institutions. To bring average
salaries to the committee's recommended goal of 80th percentile within Class IIA
institutions would require about $455,000. Professor Yohannes concluded that the
Committee's short-term recommendations are for parity with average salaries for
faculty at other Michigan Class IIA institutions. The long term objective, consistent
with the institution's objective of being "best in class", is to achieve the 80th percentile
level of Class IIA average salaries.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
After Professor Yohannes responded to questions, Provost Wong introduced
Professor Charles Weber, Chair of CESF at the UM-Flint. Professor Weber noted
that UM-Flint salary and compensation levels are below the average of those of its
twelve class IIA peer institutions and also for the eight peer schools within Michigan.
He also pointed out that although overall salary levels do show improvement over past
years, external comparisons suggest that UM-Flint compensation levels are not
attractive relative to alternative employment options such as working in the public
school system or in the health care industry. Finally, Professor Weber noted the wage
compression that occurs when the salary levels of existing faculty do not keep place
with the market rates paid to newly hired faculty.
Regent Roach observed that failure to achieve the goal of salaries at the 80th
percentile ranking within Class IIA institutions has occurred because of the state
appropriations process, not due to a lack of will on the part of the Regents and the
administration. President Duderstadt pointed out that both regional campuses have
experienced significant enrollment growth in recent years, without corresponding
growth in appropriation; this causes student to faculty ratios to increase and limits the
capacity to focus on enhancing the salary program.


-217 -



May Meeting, 1990


In response to a comment from Regent Power, Provost Wong explained that
tuition increases pay only about 40% of the cost of educating a student, and that when
state appropriations remain constant in the face of rising enrollment, the result is a net
decrease in the amount of overall revenue. Regent Power requested that the Regents
be given an analysis of this phenomenon using the past year and the upcoming fiscal
year compared to a marginal analysis of changes in state appropriation, changes in
enrollment, and changes in income.
Status of 1990-91 State Budget Request
Provost Vest reported that the situation regarding state appropriation for the
upcoming fiscal year had remained basically unchanged since his report of the
previous month; the University is predicting there will be an $8 million shortfall for
meeting its minimum needs. He pointed out that the University's operating budget
now receives more revenue from tuition and public and private research support than
it does from state appropriation. Provost Vest confirmed the University's commitment
to holding the increase for Michigan resident undergraduate tuition to 6.5% for the
1990-91 fiscal year.
Vice President Kennedy commented on the progress of the appropriations bill
and confirmed Provost Vest's assessment that the final increase in appropriation for
higher education would be about 5%, compared with the 8.5% that the state's
institutions of higher education had requested. This means that the 1990-91 fiscal year
will be a very difficult one financially. There was further discussion about the impact
of the predicted shortfall on the 1990-91 budget.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of April 19, 1990.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports of Investment Transactions,
Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory, Plant Extension, Litigation, and PersonnelLabor Relations. He commented on the recent volatility of the yields on fixed income
instruments and on the fluctuations in the domestic stock market. Regarding the Plant
Extension Report, Regent Baker asked for an accounting of the total cost of the
demolition of Old Main Hospital.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established Research and
Other Activities and Summaries of a Selection of current Research.
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of April, 1990. On a motion by
Regent Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents voted unanimously to receive
the Gifts, with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions.


-218 -



May Meeting, 1990


Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                 97,077
American Cancer Society, Michigan Division, Inc., Lansing
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                                60,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                  102,648
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                  103,077
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          15,750
American Sunroof Company Division of ASC, Inc., Southgate
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn CAD/CAM Laboratory                  20,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Fel owship Program in the Institute for Public Policy Studies,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                            100,250
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for fellowships in the School of Business Administration, and the College of
Engineering                                                                 23,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                          13,583
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  7,814
Linda S. Awrey Estate
for the Linda S. Awrey Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Mrs. Raymond H. Bishop, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Aluminum Company of America common stock; for the Frances
Willison Bishop Fund in the Medical School                                  12,463
Norman R. Bodine, Birmingham
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                         5,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering                   100,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration         5,000
CBS, Inc., New York, New York
for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             5,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the University Musical Society                                           5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           7,499
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for support of the University of Michigan-Dearborn                          15,000
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Nursing                                       25,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                          12,500
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts   5,845
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               7,250
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for research in the School of Public Health                                 35,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fund in the College of Engineering                    13,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Ethicon, Inc., Somerville, New Jersey
for support of the Medical School                                            5,000
Exxon Corporation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering         20,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social
Research                                                                    20,333
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Manufacturing Engineering Program  80,000


-219 -



May Meeting, 1990


Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                  125,000
General Electric Company, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Science and Technology Institute  5,000
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          6,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the General Motors Fellowship in Materials Science in the College of
Engineering                                                                 15,000
Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for research m the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             60,000
Glenell Associates, Nutmeg Mills Inc., Tampa, Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              20,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Fund in the School of Business Administration         35,000
Hoffman-LaRoche Inc. Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering                                  12,500
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
for computer research in the College of Engineering                          5,000
J. P. Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                      5,000
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for endowment support of the School of Business Administration              40,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  7,492
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           5,090
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health                                101,396
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School                                           6,750
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          12,999
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts for Public Service
Journalism Fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                            131,971
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           5,459
Louis A. Kubicek Estate
2,709 shares of various corporate and utility preferred stock; for unrestricted support
of the University of Michigan                                               91,381
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the University of Michigan Hospital                                    100,000
Jeffrey B. Lane Hewlett, New York
for the Nancy and Jeffrey Lane Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       20,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          14,715
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation Indianapolis, Indiana
for Employee Matching 6ifts                                                  7,050
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering                    50,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Exhibit in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology                20,000
Marko Materials, Inc., North Billerica Massachusetts
for support of the College of Engineering                                    5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    9,648
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and in the Reproductive Sciences Program  493,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 16,391
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  9,050


-220 -



May Meeting, 1990


Monsanto Company, St. Louis Missouri
for support of the Medical School, and for the Monsanto Fellowship in the School of
Public Health                                                                19,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology      261,500
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            9,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           25,000
National Alopecia Areata Foundation San Rafael, California
for research in the Medical School                                            6,750
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           13,500
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research m the Medical School                                            26,347
Dr. and Mrs. John J. O'Leary, Jr., Green Valley, Arizona
for the John J. and Mary O'Leary Scholarship                                 50,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           19,865
Robert D. Paul, New York New York
for support of the Writer's Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Ronald V. Pellegrini, Carnegie, Pennsylvania
for Thoracic Surgery Fellowships in the Medical School                        5,000
Mary Jo Peters, Ann Arbor
550 shares of Great Lakes Bancorp common stock; for the C. Wilbur Peters Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                              9,694
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             60,000
Morayne M. Podesta Estate
for Undergraduate Student Aid                                                10,768
Claire and Millar&H. Pryor, Jr., West Hartford, Connecticut
5,000 shares of Lydal, Inc., common stock for unrestricted support of the Schools of
Art and Business, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the
Humanities Institute, and the Center for Russian and East European Studies  140,625
Leonard Rand, Chagrin Falls Ohio
for support of the Coilege of Literature Science, and the Arts, and the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                               5,000
Ranir Corporation Grand Rapids
for the William K. an& Mary Anne Najjar Endowment in the School of Dentistry  35,000
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health                                  15,000
Rockwell International Corporation, Arlington, Virginia
for aerospace construction in the College ofEngineering                     100,000
Ronald W. Rosenberg Birmingham
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                7,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            12,646
S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer Family Foundation New York New York
for the Scheuer Library Fund in the CoIlege of Literature, Science, and the Arts  15,000
Regene S. Schmier Trust, Birmingham
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Nataline Vincenti Scott Estate
for the Guido A. and Agnes N. Vincenti Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  5,323
Vahan D. Sewny Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       25,000
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,008
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             65,250
Marjorie W. Spaulding Estate
for support of the School of Nursing                                         87,500
Special Metals Corporation, New Hartford, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry                                       5,000
State Farm Companies Foundation, Bloomington, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  26,125
Stephen A. Stone. Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,000


-221 -



May Meeting, 1990


Stone Charitable Foundation, Wareham, Massachusetts
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  7,500
Sun Refining & Marketing Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support of theSchool of Natural Resources                                24,000
Tanner Lecture Trust, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecture in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  17,500
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       100,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Union Oil Company of California Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                5,090
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for computer research in the College of Engineering                           5,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,980
Universal Press Syndicate, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                              5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                       6,700
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for support of the Division of Physical Education, the Kelsey Museum, and
WUOM/WVGR                                                                    10,700
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,184
Edwin N. West, Scottsdale, Arizona
4,000 shares of Schlumberger, Limited common stock; for the Edwin N. West
Faculty Recognition Fund m the Law School                                   200,250
Bernice B. Woods Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       26,000
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      10,575
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Adaptive Wheelchairs Detroit
an electric reclining system, controller and accessories; for the Department of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation
Everest & Jennings, Inc., Camarillo, California
three wheelchairs for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation/Mott Physical
Therapy
Fenton Fabrics, Fenton
458 Voge Patterns; for the University of Michigan-Flint, Theatre Department
Edith V. Frankin, Flint
321 hard- and soft-cover books; for the University of Michigan-Flint Library
Invacare Corporation, Wixom
an electric wheelchair; for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Texas Instruments, Inc. Dallas, Texas
a simulator, and a software development system; for the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
Michael and Margaret Turner, Gregory
a wheelchair and other support systems; for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation


-222 -



May Meeting, 1990


Personnel Actions/Promotion and Tenure Recommendations
In addition to a number of personnel appointments, Provost Vest also requested
approval of the annual promotion and tenure recommendations. He described the
process by which the recommendations are reviewed and approved, beginning at the
departmental level, proceeding through the schools and colleges and ending with a
review by the provost and president.
Chancellor Wilson and Provost Wong commented on personnel actions and
promotion and tenure recommendations for their respective campuses. In response to
a question from Regent Varner, Provost Vest explained that the decline in the ratio of
tenured to untenured professors can be attributed to the large number of retirements
of older faculty members. This is generally viewed as a positive development because
it has created increased opportunities for bringing in younger faculty. The number of
senior faculty that have left for other institutions has so far not been large enough to
have affected that ratio.
Regent Roach pointed out that this year's 178 promotions represents an
increase of about 50% from several years ago. Provost Vest responded that this is
largely a reflection of the large number of young faculty who were hired during the
early 1980's and are now becoming eligible for promotion, and represents only a very
modest growth in the total size of the faculty.
Regarding the statistical summary report of the promotion and tenure
recommendations, Regent Roach expressed concern about the percentages of women
and minorities who had been reviewed for promotion. The president and provost
pointed out that this figure will improve in the near future as greater numbers of the
more recently hired minority and female faculty members become eligible for
promotion review.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, it was noted that federal
guidelines do not require that the files of males who are "turned back" from promotion
be reviewed by the Affirmative Action Office. Responding to a question from Regent
Power, Provost Vest explained that it is not the case that there are a number of
assistant professors competing for one tenured slot; rather, individual candidates
compete on an absolute scale on the basis of individual merit and not against each
other, for granting of tenure.
Discussion then proceeded on the relative weight given in promotion and tenure
decisions to research, teaching, and service. Regent Power observed that his review of
the promotion and tenure recommendations seemed to indicate that "service" refers to
service to the University, rather than to the people of the state. He expressed concern
that the state's residents are not well-enough informed about all of the service that the
University provides to the state.
President Duderstadt responded that service at all levels is a significant factor in
promotion and tenure decisions and that the state benefits enormously from the wide
range of service the University provides. A discussion then ensued about the nature of
the University's service function in the state and the fact that the University needs to
do a better job of publicizing its service activities. Following this discussion, Regent
Nielsen moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the
following promotion and tenure recommendations and personnel actions:


-223 -



May Meeting, 1990


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
John B. Poster, Ph.D  Dean of the School of Education, UM-Dearborn, for a five-year term, and
Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1990
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Margaret E. Dewar, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure
School of Art
Marion E. Jackson, from Assistant Professor of Art and Associate Dean for External Relations to
Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, and Associate Dean for External Relations
Louis M. Marinaro, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure
School of Business Administration
Kim S. Cameron, from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Associate Professor of Higher
Education, without tenure, School of Education to Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Associate
Professor of Higher Education, without tenure, School of Education
Michael D. Johnson, Associate Professor of Marketing, awarded tenure
Scott E. Masten, Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, awarded tenure
M. P. Narayanan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure
Judith Reitman Olson, from Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, and Associate Professor of Psychology without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, an the Arts, to Professor of Computer and Information Systems,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Edward A. Snyder from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public
Policy, without tenure
School of Dentistry
Dennis E. Lopatin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Christian S. Stohler from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Marilyn W. Woolfolk, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
School of Education
Elizabeth F. Sulzby, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, with tenure
College of Engineerine
Linda M. Abriola, rom Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering? with tenure
Luis P. Bernal, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Mary L. Brake, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure
I. Wei Chen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Enineering, with tenure
Kevin J. Compton, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
James S. Freudenberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
Tamas I. Gombosi from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, without
tenure, and Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure to Professor of
Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Aerospace
Enineering, without tenure
Jessy W. Grizzle, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure
Alfred 0. Hero III, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
Photios G. Ioannou, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure
Timothy L. Killeen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences,
with tenure
Costas Kravaris, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
Andrzej S. Nowak, from Associate Professor to Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure
Bernhard 0. Palsson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with
tenure
Jwo Pan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure


-224 -



May Meeting, 1990


Perry J. Samson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, with
tenure
Johannes W. Schwank, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical Engineering with tenure
Gary S. Was, from Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with
tenure and Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure
Anthony C. Woo, from Associate Professor to Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with
tenure
School of Information and Library Studies
Karen M. Drabenstott, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Information and Library
Studies, with tenure
Law School
Samuel R. Gross, from Associate Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
Mathias W. Reimann, from Associate Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ratindranath Akhoury, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Andrew A. Anderson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure
Michael Awkward, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
and Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure
William H. Baxter III, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chinese Language and
Literature, with tenure
Kent C. Berridge, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology with tenure
Paul A. Boghossian, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Juan R. Cole, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Nicholas B. Dirks from Associate Professor of History with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Anthropology, without tenure, to Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of
Anthropology, without tenure
Alice Fulton, from William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English to Associate Professor of English, with
tenure
Robert M. Groves, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Philip J. Hanlon, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
John L. Harer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics with tenure
Sharon C. Herbert, from Associate Professor to Professor of Classical Archaeology, with tenure
Ken K. Ito, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with
tenure
Robert Krasny, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
John R. Kucich, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
David A. Lam, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Laurence T. Maloney, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Marion T. Marzolf, from Associate Professor to Professor of Communication, with tenure
Mark E. Meyerhoff, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Steven Mullaney, Associate Professor of English, awarded tenure
Ronald A. Nussbaum, from Associate Professor to Professor of Zoology, with tenure
William H. Pearson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor oT Chemistry, with tenure
James E. Penner-Hahn, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Christopher Peterson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Peter A. Railton from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Robert S. Savit, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, with tenure
Kim L. Scheppele, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
John R. Stembridge, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Jindrich Toman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, with
tenure
Medical School
Kenneth M. Adams, from Professor of Psychology, without tenure, and Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and tie Arts
Kate F. Barald, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure
Stanley Berent, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Department of Psychiatrv, Associate
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, Department of Neurology and Associate Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, Department of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, Department of Neurology, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure,
Department of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Mary Ellen A. Bozynski, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure


-225 -



May Meeting, 1990


Darrell A. Campbell, Jr., from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Clarence E. Chrisp, Associate Professor of Comparative Pathology, awarded tenure
Kevin D. Cooper, trom Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure
James C. Coyne, from Associate Professor of Family Practice, without tenure, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, to Associate Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Psychology, without tenure
Joseph R. Custer, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Steven M. Donn, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure
Adam Drewnowski, from Associate Professor of Community Health Programs, with tenure, School of
Public Health and Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Community Health
Programs, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without
tenure
Charles N. Ellis, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dermatology, with tenure
Steven G. Ellis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Grace H. Elta, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Stephen G. Emerson, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure
Andrew P. Feinberg, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Assistant Professor
of Human Genetics, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Stephen K. Fisher, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
David A. Fox, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Roy A. Glover, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without
tenure
Margaret E. Gnegy, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
H. Barton Grossman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Cyril M. Grum, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Leon J. Grunhaus, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Karen S. Guice, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Joel D. Howell, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Assistant Professor of Health Services
Management and Policy, School of Public Health, and Assistant Professor of History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy without tenure, School of Public
Health, and Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Michael J. Imperiale, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
with tenure
W. John Judd, from Associate Professor to Professor of Immunohematology, with tenure
Larry R. Junck, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Neil M. Kalter, from Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature Science, and the Arts,
and Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of Psychology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Psychology, with tenure
James A. Knol, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Kotoku Kurachi, from Associate Professor to Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure
Jeffrey M. Leiden, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Assistant Professor
of Microbiology and Immunology
Simon P. Levine, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation with tenure
Robert J. Levy, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, to Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics,
without tenure, College of Pharmacy
John E. McGillicuddy, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Laurence F. McMahon, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Health Services Management and Policy, School of Public Health, to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Health Services Management and
Policy, School of Public Health, without tenure
S. Gene McNeeley, Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
with tenure
Gary J. Nabel, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Biological
Chemistry to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, without tenure
Richard R. Neubig, from Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Internal Medicine, without tenure


-226 -



May Meeting, 1990


John M. Nicklas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Brian J. Nickoloff, from Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Dermatology to
Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Dermatology, without
tenure
John B. Penney, from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Aileen B. Sedman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Marshal Shlafer, from Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Department of Pharmacology,
and Associate Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, Department of Surgery, to Professor of
Pharmacology, with tenure, Department of Pharmacology, and Professor of Pharmacology,
without tenure, Department of Surgery
Robert U. Simpson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
Mark R. Starling, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Eric J. Topol from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Jonathan D. Trobe, from Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Assistant Professor of Neurology
to Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Neurology, without tenure
Joan L. Venes, from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure
Richard L. Wahl, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Radiology, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of
Radiology, without tenure
Michael J. Welsh, from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Anatomy, without tenure, to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, and
Professor of Anatomy, without tenure
Donald M. Wieland, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Roger C. Wiggins, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
David M. Williams, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
School of Music
James M. Borders, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mususc (Musicology), with tenure
Laura J. Crow, Associate Professor of Theatre, awarded tenure
Jessica K. Fogel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure
Yizhak Schotten, Associate Professor of Music (Viola), awarded tenure
Michael W. Udow, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music (Percussion), with tenure
School of Nursing
Bonnie L. Metzgero Associate Professor of Nursing, awarded tenure
Nancy E. Reame, from Associate Professor to Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Barbara A. Therrien, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Division of Physical Education
Bruce A. Watkins, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Education, with tenure
School of Public Health
Thomas J. Armstrong, from Associate Professor to Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure
Neal M. Krause, Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education awarded tenure
Steven P. Levine, from Associate Professor to Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure
Catherine G. McLaughlin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Services
Management and Policy, with tenure
Lisa A. WeissTeld from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure
John R. C. Wheeler, from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Services Management and Policy,
with tenure
School of Social Work
Barry N. Checkoway, from Associate Professor to Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Ruth E. Dunkle, from Associate Professor to Professor of Social Work, with tenure
David P. Himle, from Associate Professor to Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Ira M. Schwartz, Professor of Social Work, awarded tenure
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Kathryn M. Anderson-Levitt, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure
Lars Bjorn, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Barry A. Bogin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Antropology, with tenure
Margret H. Hfioft from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure
Brooks B. Hull,?rom Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Bruce R. Maxim, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with
tenure


-227 -



May Meeting, 1990


Charlotte A. Otto, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Frank J. Papp, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics with tenure
Shelley K. Perlove, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure
UM-Dearbom School of Education
Mary L. Trepanier-Street, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, with tenure
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
James W. Knight, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, awarded tenure
Timothy D. Thomasma, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems
Engineering, with tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Charles G. Apple, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, with tenure
Melba J. Boyd, Associate Professor of African-Americamen Studies, awarded tenure
Loretta J. Dauwe, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Robert M. Kren, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Neil 0. Leighton, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science, with tenure
William M.CMarsh, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physical Geograhy, with tenure
Matthew F. Wyneken, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Management
Walter J Woerheide, fro  Associate Professor to Professor of Finance, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
William D. Belville, M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, May 21, 1990
L. Charles Bokemeier D.BA., Associate Professor of Accounting
John A. Gillespie, Ph.b., Associate Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 1990
Vahid Lotfi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Management
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Marshall H. Becker, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health Professor of Health
Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Health
Behavior, with tenure, Medical School, reappointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School
of Public Health, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990
Noreen M. Clark, Chair and Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure,
reappointed Chair of the Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, for a three-year
term, September 1, 1990
Frank W. Comstock, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
May 1, 1990
Herbert W. Johe, Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed to active
status, Fall term, 1990
Frederick W. Kahler, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
May 1, 1990
Robert M. Warner, Dean of the School of Information and Library Studies, Professor of Library Studies,
with tenure and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
reappointed Dean of the School of Information and Library Studies, for a five-year term, July i,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Thomas L. Coffey, Professor of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed
Chair of the Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work, College of Arts and Sciences,
UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Raymond E. Counsell Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, appointed Interim Chair of the
Department of Pharmacology, Medical School
Carolyn 0. Frost, from Interim Associate Dean and Professor of Information and Library Studies, with
tenure, School of Information and Library Studies, to Associate Dean and Professor of
Information and Library Studies, with tenure, for a five-year term, May 1, 1990


-228 -



May Meeting, 1990


Carolyn M. Gillespie, Associate Professor of Theatre without tenure UM-Flint, appointed Chair of the
Department of Theatre, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Fint, for a three-year term
Lubomyr M. Kowal, Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-FLint, appointed Chair of the Department
of Economics, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
William M. Marsh, Associate Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair of
the Department of Resource and Community Science, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for
a three-year term
Douglas E. Miller, Associate Professor of Art and German, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair of the
Department of Foreign Languages, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-lint, for a three-year term
Peter D. Sparling, Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of
Dance, or a five-year term
Harriet M. Wall, Professor of Psychology, with tenure UM-Flint, appointed Chair of the Department of
Psychology, College of Arts andSciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Ernest A. Mika, umni member,reappointed for a three-year term, June 1 1990 - May 31 1993
Albert P. Pickus, alumni member, reappointed for a three-year term, June i, 1990 - May 3i, 1993
Medical School Executive Committee
Peter A. Ward, fr a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Kathleen P. Heidelberger,
term expired
Tadataka Yamada, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Irving H. Fox, term
expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Gordon L. Flynn, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Gordon L. Amidon, term expired
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Dale A. avis for a two-year term, July, 1990 -June 30, 1992, vice C. Peethambaran Kartha, term
expired
John A. Larson, for a two-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Kristen D. Skivington, term expired
Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professorship of Law. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professorship of Law, effective July 1,
1990.
William W. Bishop, Jr. Collegiate Professorship of Law. The Regents approved
the establishment of the William W. Bishop, Jr. Collegiate Professorship of Law,
effective July 1, 1990.
John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professorship of Law. The Regents approved
the establishment of the John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professorship of Law,
effective July 1, 1990.
Assistant Dean for Development and External Relations. The Regents
approved the appointment of Susan McClanahan as the Assistant Dean for
Development and External Relations in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, effective July 1, 1990.
David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professorship in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases. The Regents approved the establishment of the David G. Dickinson
Collegiate Professorship in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, effective October
1, 1990.
Vice Chancellor for Administration. The Regents approved the appointment of
Dorothy Smith Russell as the Vice Chancellor for Administration at the University of
Michigan-Flint, effective July 1, 1990.


-229 -



May Meeting, 1990


Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistrv
Geraldifie Markel, Ph.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, April 1, 1990
Collee of Engineering
Martin D. Giles, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Theodore G. Hopf, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
Jonathan S. Simon, J.D., Lecturer in Political Science, July 1, 1990, and Assistant Professor of Political
Science, September 1, 1990
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Elizabeth L. Higasli MA., Assistant Professor of Art History and Humanities
Nancy H. Wrobel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990
Medical School
Allan F. Thornton, Jr., Instructor in Radiation Oncology, Department of Radiation Oncology, appointed
Instructor in Radiation Oncology, Department of Otorhinolaryngology
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bruce A. Pietrykowski, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Economics
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Dentistry
Robert A. Bagramian Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Professor of Dental Public Health, without
tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, July 1 - December 31 1990
Walter J. Loesche,   ssist Professor o f Dentistry, with tenure, an ofessor of Microology, with tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, August 1, 1990 - July 31, 1991
School of Education
erald Gurin, Professor of Higher Education, with tenure, personal leave, July 1 - August 31, 1990
College of Engineering
William B. Ribbens, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1991
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Joseph B. Adelson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1990
Mark Gersovitz Professor of Economics, with tenure, personal leave, September 1 1989 - May 31, 1990
Melvin Manis, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1991
Franco M. Nori, Assistant Professor of Physics, duty off campus, March 18 - May 31 1990
Jeffrey M. Paige, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - becember 31, 1990
Terry E. Robinson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1991
George C. Rosenwald, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September, 1990 - May 31,
1991
J. E. Keith Smith, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Department of Psychology, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, Department of Statistics, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1991
Joseph Veroff, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
Medical School
John C. Floyd, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement furlough, October 1 -
November 30, 1989, January 1 - 31, 1990, and March 1 - 31, 1990


-230 -



May Meeting, 1990


William J. Oliver, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, extended sick leave,
February 1 - 28, 1990 and April 1 - May 22, 1990
School of Social Work
Paul A. Wilson, Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, leave without salary, September 1,
1990 - May 31, 1991
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Paul Kuang-Hsien Lin,Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,
1990 - April 30, 1991
William J. Linn Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1990 - April 30, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Medical School
Shobha V. Malviya, Instructor in Anesthesiology, personal leave dates previously reported as December 7,
1989 - March 7, 1990 changed to December 7, 1989 - March 19, 1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Patricia L. Fuhst-Wylie, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 26, 1990
School of Education
William M. Cave, Howard V. McClusky Professor of Education
College of Enaneerink
William W. Willmarth, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Stanton B. Garner, Jr., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, June 30, 1990
Shaw Livermore, Jr., Professor of History, with tenure
Rhoads Murphey, Director of the Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies and Professor of History,
with tenure
Richard J. Ruppel, Lecturer in English Language and Literature
Kathleen M. M. Smail, Lecturer in French
Medical School
Wadie F. Bahou, Instructor in Internal Medicine, March 15, 1990
M. David Jackson, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, March 31, 1990
Gerald L. Messerschmidt, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Departments of Internal Medicine
and Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, April 1, 1990
School of Music
George R. Cavender, Professor of Music, with tenure, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education
Jacob Krachmalnick, Professor of Music with tenure
Abe Torchinsky, Professor of Music, with tenure
School of Nursing
Gail Fromes, Lecturer in Nursing
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Gunnar G. Birkerts, the Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professor
and professor of architecture, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1990.
Born in Latvia, Gunnar Birkerts studied architecture at the Technische
Hochschule in Stuttgart, Germany, receiving the Diplom-Ingeneur Architekt in 1949.
He came to the United States immediately, working one year for Perkins and Will in
-231 -



May Meeting, 1990


Chicago, five years for Eero Saarinen & Associates in Bloomfield Hills, and three
years for Minoru Yamasaki & Associates in Birmingham. He formed his first office in
1959 and, since 1960, he has taught architectural design at the University of Michigan.
Professor Birkerts is one of the world's foremost architects. Since 1954, his
buildings have earned him over 25 major design awards and dozens of others. His
work has been cited in numerous professional journals around the world and exhibited
by a dozen prestigious institutions, including the Bienniale, Sao Paulo, Brazil; the
Museum of Modern Art in New York; the New York Architectural League; and the
American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. He was selected to serve as
juror for the R.S. Reynolds Metal Award, one of the most eminent international
awards given to architects. The great variety of his work was celebrated in a splendid
monograph published in 1982 by GA Architect.
Many honors have been bestowed upon Professor Birkerts in recognition of his
genius. In 1971, he received the Gold Medal of Tau Sigma Delta, national honor
society in architecture and allied arts. The Detroit Chapter of the American Institute
of Architects presented him with its Gold Medal in 1975, and he was awarded the
Michigan Society of Architects' Gold Medal in 1980. The Arnold W. Brunner
Memorial Prize in Architecture, one of the highest honors in art, was accorded
Professor Birkerts in 1981 by the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
He was a recipient of the Michigan Arts Foundation Award for Architects in 1988 and,
most recently, was given a Distinguished Professor Award by the Association of
Collegiate Schools of Architecture.
Professor Birkerts is internationally known as an accomplished teacher, and
master's degree students from across the globe have been attracted to the University
of Michigan to study with him. He has been invited to lecture at nearly every one of
the 91 American schools of architecture. Professor Birkerts' renown attests to his
distinguished achievements and his reputation as a brilliant architect/teacher/scholar.
The University has been fortunate to have had him as a faculty member.
The Regents now salute Gunnar G. Birkerts by naming him the Thomas S.
Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Architecture.
John J. Brownfain, professor of psychology at the University of MichiganDearborn, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1990, following 28 years of
service.
Professor Brownfain received his B.S. and M.A. degrees from Temple
University in 1942 and 1947, respectively. He earned his Ph.D. degree in clinical
psychology from the University of Michigan in 1950. From 1950-67, he was chief of
the psychology service at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Dearborn. He
joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in 1962 as a part-time
lecturer in psychology, and was promoted to professor of psychology in 1967.
As a practicing clinical psychologist, Professor Brownfain brought to his
teaching an ideal combination of theory and real-life experience. He played an
important role in developing the psychology curriculum at Dearborn and is perhaps
best known for his courses in abnormal psychology and human sexual behavior. He
has pursued a number of scholarly interests in the field of clinical psychology, with
particular emphasis on homosexual behavior. Professor Brownfain also made
significant contributions to the University in a number of administrative roles. He
served as chair of the behavioral sciences department, member of the faculty affairs
advisory committee, head of several search committees, and as chair of the affirmative
action committee. He has demonstrated his commitment both to his profession and to
the community by his involvement in numerous professional and community


-232 -



May Meeting, 1990


organizations at the local, national, and international levels. This work has been
characterized by the highest professional standards, and brought recognition to the
Dearborn campus during the early days of its existence.
During the 1970s and early 1980s, when the campus was growing at a rapid pace,
Professor Brownfain acted as a stabilizing influence and a mature presence on a
faculty that consisted increasingly of younger people, many of whom had little, if any,
prior academic experience. He was a mentor and leader who often was able to bring a
sense of balance to various situations which otherwise might have become divisive.
Throughout his career, Professor Brownfain demonstrated that he was a broadly
educated teacher whose intellectual interests extended beyond the boundaries of his
own specialty. In the best traditions of liberal arts colleges, he enhanced his teaching
and found intellectual fulfillment through his interests in music, history, science, and
the arts.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and senior member of the
Dearborn campus by naming John J. Brownfain Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
William M. Cave, Howard V. McClusky Professor of Education, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1990, after 35 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Cave received his B.S. degree from Eastern Michigan University in
1948, his M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1950, and his Ph.D. degree
from Michigan State University in 1957. He joined the University of Michigan in 1957
as an assistant professor of education. He was promoted to associate professor in 1963
and professor in 1968. Professor Cave has been an educational and social science
consultant to UNESCO since 1972 and to the Organization for Economic and Cultural
Development since 1975. He has also served as advisor to the Danish Ministry of
Education, and has lectured in Denmark, Belgium, Ireland, Great Britain, Kenya, and
the Soviet Union.
Professor Cave's extensive bibliography reflects his wide-ranging and catholic
interests. With Professor Mark Chesler of the sociology department, he authored a
widely adopted and influential text, Sociology of Education: Access to Power. He also
co-authored the first major post-World War II studies of education in the Soviet
Union, Education and Social Change: A Study of the Role of the School in a Technical
Developing Society in Central Asia (1965) and Education and Development in Soviet
Central Asia (1971). In addition to these major works, Professor Cave has published
22 monographs, book chapters, and journal articles dealing with such topics as the
sociology of higher education, education and modernization, political socialization,
and strategies for lifelong learning.
Throughout his career at the University of Michigan, Professor Cave has
demonstrated a deep commitment to teaching and to expanding our understanding of
the dynamics of social and educational change. To these ends, Professor Cave applied
great intellectual acuity, a charismatic classroom style, and limitless personal energy,
attributes which attracted generations of students to his office door. A tireless mentor,
his interests included community organization and development, adult education,
urban education, comparative and international education, and the sociology of
education. Professor Cave was always looked to for his counsel, insight, and sound
judgment in matters ranging from curriculum reform to school leadership. He
maintained high standards of personal and professional conduct, and demonstrated his
keen sense of citizenship through his loyal service to his colleagues and the school.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming William
M. Cave the Howard V. McClusky Professor Emeritus of Education.


-233 -



May Meeting, 1990


George R. Cavender, professor of music (conducting) in the School of Music and
lecturer in education in the School of Education, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1990.
Born in Wakefield, Michigan, Professor Cavender received his B.Mus. degree
from Marquette University in 1941. Following four years of service in the U.S. Marine
Corps, he enrolled in the University of Michigan, where he received his M.Mus.
degree in 1947. From 1947-51, he taught instrumental music in the Ypsilanti
(Michigan) Public Schools. Professor Cavender joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan as an instructor of music in 1952; he was promoted to assistant professor in
1957, associate professor in 1962, and professor in 1966.
Professor Cavender served as assistant director of university bands from
1952-71, and as director of university bands from 1971-75. From 1976-82, he served as
the School of Music's director of development and school relations and, since 1982, he
has served as coordinator of special events. In the latter capacity, he has been
responsible for organizing the annual Midwest Conference on School Music.
Professor Cavender is author of ten publications concerned with band and marching
band techniques, and has travelled very widely as an adjudicator, guest conductor,
drillmaster, lecturer, and consultant including participation in no less than eighteen
major football games.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming George R.
Cavender Professor Emeritus of Music.
Donald E. DeGraaf, professor of physics at the University of Michigan- Flint,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1990, after a most productive career as
a teacher, advisor, and scholar.
Professor DeGraaf received his A.B. degree from Calvin College in 1948, and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1950 and 1957,
respectively. He came to the University of Michigan-Flint in 1957 as assistant
professor of physics. He was promoted to associate professor in 1961 and to professor
in 1967. Professor DeGraaf served as chair of the physics department from 1965-71,
from 1972-74, in 1975, and again from 1984-87.
As the founder of the physics program at UM-Flint, Professor DeGraaf taught
the campus' first physics, engineering, and environmental studies courses. His
dedication to the improvement of physics teaching led to the development of the Flint
Introductory Physics Sequence, a helical pattern of teaching introductory physics
courses that gained nationwide interest and served as a model that was adopted in
other colleges. Professor DeGraaf taught introductory physics courses, including those
for non-science majors, for 18 years, using a personalized system of instruction that
assisted each student in an individualized learning mode. Throughout his tenure at
UM-Flint, Professor DeGraaf served on numerous faculty committees. He was chair
of the governing faculty in 1980-81, and made important contributions to the
formulation of the new general education requirements that were adopted by the
UM-Flint faculty in 1982.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Donald E. DeGraaf Professor Emeritus of Physics.
Alfred L. Edwards, professor of business administration, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1990.
Professor Edwards received his B.A. degree from Livingstone College in 1948,
his M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1949, and his Ph.D. degree from
the State University of Iowa in 1958. During his career, Professor Edwards taught at
Southern University, State University of Iowa, Michigan State University, and Howard


-234 -



May Meeting, 1990


University. In addition, he served as economics advisor at the University of Nigeria;
as deputy assistant secretary of agriculture for rural development with the U.S.
Department of Agriculture; and special assistant to the commissioner for the U.S.
Product Safety Commission. In 1974, Professor Edwards was appointed professor of
business administration and director of the School of Business Administration's
Division of Research.
Commitment and dedication are the two words which best describe Professor
Edwards and his contributions to the University of Michigan. A tireless friend and
advisor to minority students in particular, Professor Edwards was actively involved in
all facets of their recruitment and retention at the School of Business. As faculty
advisor to the Black Business Students' Association for many years, Professor Edwards
helped the group to become one of the school's most productive student organizations.
Always a good citizen of the school, Professor Edwards was an active participant in
such important, student-related committees as the academic petitions committee,
where he could be counted upon to provide the balance needed to assess and evaluate
student requests. His fairness and compassion were always at the forefront of his
guidance and advice.
Professor Edwards will be missed by all who have had the pleasure of knowing
and working with him.
It is with much gratitude and best wishes for the future that the Regents now
confer upon Alfred L. Edwards the title of Professor Emeritus of Business
Administration.
Lester Fader, professor of architecture, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1990.
Professor Fader received his B.Arch. degree from the University of Michigan in
1950. After several years in architectural practice in Salt Lake City and Detroit, he
began his distinguished 30-year teaching and research career at the University in 1959
as an assistant professor of architecture. He was promoted to associate professor in
1962 and professor in 1967.
Professor Fader has brought a special set of abilities to instruction in visual
studies. In addition to architectural practice, he is nationally recognized as a jewelry
designer/craftsman, architectural photographer, and inventor of photographic
equipment and techniques. His Visual Studies Laboratory contains a wide range of
photographic equipment and projection systems, many devised and constructed by
Professor Fader. The laboratory has helped pioneer the use of miniature video
techniques to study models of architectural space.
An enthusiastic and imaginative teacher, Professor Fader's classes have
attracted heavy enrollments. Students appreciate his consistent search for better
means of understanding and depicting the visual environment.
In recognition of his many contributions to teaching and learning about the
visual environment, the Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Lester Fader Professor Emeritus of Architecture.
Jacob M. Krachmalnick, professor of music (violin), will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1990.
Professor Krachmalnick was born in Krislov, U.S.S.R., in 1922, and raised in St.
Louis, Missouri. He received a diploma in 1942 from the Curtis Institute of Music in
Philadelphia, where he studied violin with Efrem Zimbalist. He made his solo debut
with the Philadelphia Orchestra, and soon entered upon a series of appointments as
concertmaster with major orchestras that is regarded as no less than a saga among
cognoscenti of orchestral lore: he was associate concertmaster of the Cleveland


-235 -



May Meeting, 1990


Orchestra under George Szell from 1946-50, then, in succession, concertmaster of the
Philadelphia Orchestra under Eugene Ormandy (1950-58), of the Concertgebouw
Orkest (in Amsterdam) under Eduard van Beinum (1958-62), and of the San
Francisco Symphony Orchestra under Josef Krips and Seiji Ozawa (1964-70). He also
served as guest concertmaster of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, the San Francisco
Opera Association, and of the New York Philharmonic under Leonard Bernstein. In
addition to many recordings made with the orchestras mentioned above, Professor
Krachmalnick has also recorded extensively for the television and film industries in
Los Angeles. Throughout his career, he has also been active as a violin soloist and
chamber music performer in appearances throughout North America, Europe, and
Japan, and as a teacher of violin.
Professor Krachmalnick joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1978,
joking with former colleagues (who were incredulous that he would curtail his
performance activities) that he was going to teach "brain surgery" at the University.
From his position as perhaps the most experienced and versatile concertmaster of the
era, his tutelage of violin students seeking careers in symphony orchestras was carried
on with superior insight and utmost distinction.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Jacob M.
Krachmalnick Professor Emeritus of Music.
Shaw Livermore, Jr., professor of history, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1990.
Professor Livermore, who was born in Boston, received his A.B. degree from
Harvard College in 1948 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Wisconsin in 1951 and 1959, respectively. He taught history at Princeton University
from 1956-63. In 1964, he accepted an appointment as associate professor of history at
the University of Michigan; he was promoted to professor of history in 1970.
An outstanding teacher of American history at all levels of instruction, Professor
Livermore has an especially deep commitment to the education of undergraduates.
His skill as a teacher springs from an encyclopedic command of the literature of his
subject. In the classroom, he is a student of history as well as an expositor, a
thoughtful reader who shares with his students the fruits of his study and thought
rather than imposing a single interpretation upon them. He has been a firm and
helpful guide for teaching assistants.
Professor Livermore's many contributions to the University and to the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts include service as chair of SACUA and chair of
the LSA curriculum committee. His book, The Twilight of Federalism, a study of the
fates and aspirations of Federalists who survived the demise of their political party, is
the standard treatment of the subject and an essential part of the literature dealing
with the Era of Good Feelings. He is also principal author of the political chapters in
The Making of an American Community, by Merle Curti.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for his dedicated service by
naming Shaw Livermore, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History.
Rhoads Murphey, professor of history, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1990. He is an active and productive scholar of international renown.
Professor Murphey was awarded his A.B. degree magna cum laude in history
from Harvard College in 1941. He received his M.A. degree in history from Harvard
University in 1942, and after wartime service with the Friends Ambulance Unit in
China from 1942-46, received his M.A. degree in international and regional studies
and his Ph.D. degree in Far Eastern history and geography from Harvard University in
1948 and 1950, respectively. Professor Murphey taught Asian studies and geography


-236 -



May Meeting, 1990


at the University of Washington from 1952-64. In 1964, he accepted an appointment
as professor of Asian studies and geography at the University of Michigan. His title
was changed to professor of history in 1982.
Professor Murphey has written or co-authored a dozen books on the history and
geography of China and South Asia. He is especially well known for his contributions
to the modern history of urbanization in the region, through such books as Shanghai:
Key to Modem China (1953) and The Outsiders: Westerners in India and China (1977),
the latter of which won an award for best book of the year by the University of
Michigan Press. Professor Murphey is an outstanding teacher and counsellor in both
the history and the Asian studies programs. He has served the University in many
capacities, most notably as director of the Center for Chinese Studies and the Center
for South and Southeast Asian Studies. In 1974, he was awarded the University's
highest honor, the Distinguished Service Award. His outstanding contributions to the
Association for Asian Studies include having been editor of the Journal of Asian
Studies, having served for many years as executive director of the association, and in
1987-88 as its president.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for his dedication by naming
Rhoads Murphey Professor Emeritus of History.
Robert B. Smock, professor of sociology at the University of MichiganDearborn, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1990, following 27 years of
service.
Professor Smock received his B.A. degree from Adrian College (Michigan) in
1946. He worked as a social worker and research assistant before receiving his M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees in sociology from Wayne State University in 1953 and 1962,
respectively. While undertaking his studies at Wayne State, he was employed as the
associate director of the Detroit Area Traffic Study, where he played an important
part in planning the new highway development that was needed as Detroit began to
expand. Professor Smock joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in
1963 as an assistant professor of sociology and as the director of the Center for Urban
Studies. He was promoted to associate professor in 1965 and to professor in 1968.
During his tenure at UM-Dearborn, Professor Smock helped to develop the
sociology curriculum and enjoyed a very successful career as a teacher, advisor, and
researcher. As a member of a relatively small faculty body, by necessity he taught a
great variety of classes. However, he later became best known for his courses in
demography, human ecology, and urban sociology. Within these courses, he was able
to integrate his ongoing research interests in the area of urban studies and was able to
create a dynamic classroom environment in which students had opportunities to learn
and study about the process of urbanization as that process was actually occurring.
In addition to his distinguished faculty career, Professor Smock made significant
administrative contributions to the growth and development of the newly growing
campus as it made the transition from a small two-year senior college to a
comprehensive four-year undergraduate institution with an expanding curriculum and
a growing faculty body. He was charged with the task of overseeing the academic
development of the college as it began this expansion, and occupied the position of
academic coordinator (a position which eventually evolved into the current position of
vice-chancellor for academic affairs). In this and other administrative assignments,
Professor Smock was always willing to serve when needed, giving concrete evidence of
his loyalty, resourcefulness, and commitment to the campus.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and senior member of the
Dearborn campus by naming Robert B. Smock Professor Emeritus of Sociology.


-237 -



May Meeting, 1990


Arthur F. Southwick, professor of business law in the School of Business
Administration and professor of health services management and policy in the School
of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1990, after 34 years
of service to the University.
Professor Southwick attended the College of Wooster, where he graduated with
a B.A. degree in 1947. He then attended graduate school at the University of
Michigan, where he received his M.B.A. degree in 1950 and his J.D. degree in 1951.
Except for a visiting professorship at the School of Public Health at Harvard
University in 1985, Professor Southwick served virtually his entire academic career at
the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 1956,
was promoted to associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1966.
Two hallmarks of Professor Southwick's career were his concern for students
and his emphasis on high-quality research. His concern for students was reflected in
his thorough preparation, lively classroom coverage of complex legal issues, and long
hours devoted to providing students with individual feedback on their examinations
and research assignments. His emphasis on high-quality research was indicative of his
interest in students, in that he firmly believed that research provides the foundation
for excellence in teaching.
The impact of Professor Southwick's research extended far beyond the
classroom. His numerous articles and his book, The Law of Hospital and Health Care
Administration, have been frequently cited in research journals and court decisions and
have had a significant influence on the development of hospital and health care law.
Professor Southwick also served on the board of editors of the American Journal of
Law and Medicine, and on the editorial advisory boards of Issues in Health Care
Technology and Hospital Risk Control.
In recognition of his distinguished service, the Regents now name Arthur F.
Southwick Professor Emeritus of Business Law and Professor Emeritus of Health
Services Management and Policy.
Jane Taylor, professor of biology at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 1990, after a most productive career as a teacher,
advisor, and scholar.
Professor Taylor received her B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees from the Queen's
University of Belfast in 1947 and 1951, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree from the
University of Cincinnati in 1960. She came to the University of Michigan-Flint in 1967
as associate professor of biology. She received tenure in 1969, and was promoted to
full professor in 1970. In 1977, she was awarded the David M. French Professorship,
which is the highest honor bestowed on a scholar at the University of Michigan-Flint.
An internationally recognized expert in the biology of bryophytes, Professor
Taylor has over 50 scientific publications and two species of plants named for her in
Hawaii and New Zealand. During her career, she reviewed grant applications for the
National Science Foundation and the Smithsonian Institution and manuscripts for The
Bryologist and the American Journal of Botany. Professor Taylor was active as an
officer and a member of several professional societies, including the International
Association of Bryologists, American Association for the Advancement of Science, the
British Bryological Society, and Sigma Xi.
A highly regarded teacher, Professor Taylor has taught a wide range of courses,
including field courses for non-majors, specialized courses in cytogenetics and tissue
culture, and graduate courses at the University of Michigan Biological Station. She
has served on thesis and dissertation committees for graduate students at several
major institutions. Professor Taylor has also served the University as a department
chair and as a member of the faculty assembly, executive committee, and research


-238 -



May Meeting, 1990


advisory committee. Her most outstanding community contribution was her active
participation in the development of a first-class arboretum at the For-Mar Nature
Preserve.
In recognition of her long-standing efforts to encourage undergraduate student
research, Professor Taylor's colleagues are honoring her by making contributions in
her name to the Murchie Memorial Fund to support undergraduate student research.
She will be missed and is to be commended for her outstanding commitment to the
University of Michigan-Flint.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her dedicated
service by naming Jane Taylor Professor Emeritus of Biology.
Abe Torchinsky, professor of music (tuba), will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1990.
Professor Torchinsky graduated from the Curtis Institute of Music in
Philadelphia in 1941, after which he launched a performance career as an ensemble
tubist of wide-ranging variety and of enviable accomplishment. After having been a
member of several metropolitan orchestras, in 1946, Professor Torchinsky joined the
new orchestra of the National Broadcasting Corporation, conducted by Arturo
Toscanini. The NBC Symphony Orchestra was considered to be among the top
virtuoso orchestras in the world; it made countless broadcasts and recordings for RCA
Victor under its venerable conductor, including the first telecast of a symphonic
concert. Professor Torchinsky joined the Philadelphia Orchestra in 1949, again
performing and recording under legendary conductors. He remained with the
Philadelphia Orchestra until joining the University of Michigan faculty in 1972 as a
professor of music.
With the exceptional wealth of rich orchestral experience he brought to the
faculty, Professor Torchinsky was responsible for the training of low brass students in
Michigan ensembles for seventeen years. Graduates from his classes now hold
prominent orchestral posts throughout the United States.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Abe
Torchinsky Professor Emeritus of Music.
Andrew S. Watson, M.D., professor of law in the Law School and professor of
psychiatry in the Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1990,
after a distinguished career of teaching and research.
Born in Highland Park, Michigan, Dr. Watson received his B.S. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1942. Following service in the United States Army, he
received his M.D. degree from Temple University School of Medicine in 1950 and his
M.S. degree in medicine from Temple in 1954. Dr. Watson taught at the University of
Pennsylvania from 1955-59, when he came to the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor of psychiatry and assistant professor of law. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1966.
In the Department of Psychiatry, Dr. Watson taught medical students and
psychiatric residents, served as a supervisor of family conjoint therapy and as a
seminar leader for residents in forensic psychiatry, and was one of the most active
faculty members in the community psychiatry program. His research focused on such
areas as techniques for simultaneous treatment of marital partners and the
psychodynamics and community management of the battered child syndrome.
In the Law School, Dr. Watson taught a variety of traditional courses, regularly
taught a course in law and psychiatry, participated regularly in teaching the
negotiation seminar, and worked actively in clinical teaching. He did important work
on the law school teaching process, with particular emphasis on exploring the


-239 -



May Meeting, 1990


psychological dimension of lawyer-client relations in the law school clinics. In his
scholarship, Dr. Watson has been a true pioneer in bringing together the fields of law
and psychiatry; his Psychiatry for Lawyers has been a standard text for many years. His
work in law and psychiatry was recognized in 1978 when he received the Isaac Ray
Award from the American Psychiatric Association for "outstanding contributions to
the relationship between law and psychiatry," and again in 1989 when he received the
Seymour Pollack Distinguished Achievement Award from the American Academy of
Psychiatry and Law.
Both as a teacher and a colleague, Dr. Watson enjoyed enormous success, not
only in bringing psychiatry into the Law School but also in paving the way for the
widespread introduction of many other disciplines into the study of law. More than
most, he taught not only his students, but also other members of his faculty.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his
distinguished service by naming Andrew S. Watson Professor Emeritus of Law and
Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry.
James H. Wolter, associate professor of business administration in the School of
Management at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1990.
Professor Wolter earned his B.S. degree in agriculture from the University of
Illinois in 1949. He served in the U.S. Army from 1951-1953, during the Korean War.
He then went to Indiana University, where he earned his M.B.A. degree in
management in 1955 and D.B.A. degree in marketing in 1960. He joined the faculty of
the University of Michigan-Flint in 1958 as a lecturer; he was promoted to assistant
professor in 1960 and to associate professor in 1966.
During his 32 years of service on the University of Michigan-Flint campus,
Professor Wolter has taught approximately 250 sections of more than 16 different
courses in marketing, management, and quantitative methods, with an estimated 8,000
enrollments by over 3,000 different students. Until 1975, every student who majored
in business administration took three required courses taught by Professor Wolter, and
many took additional elective ones. He also developed several new courses for the
curriculum, including specialty courses in automotive marketing and new product
development. Professor Wolter has served as faculty advisor for over 1,000 students,
and then continued to play an active liaison role with them after they became alumni.
Professor Wolter has contributed extensively in the service area, both on
campus and in the Flint community. He has served on almost every campus
committee, and has chaired more than 30 of them. An active supporter of student
organizations, he has served as faculty advisor for the business, marketing, folk music,
and ski clubs. He is a member of more than 10 professional organizations and has
performed committee service for several local chapters of marketing associations. He
is a member of Beta Gamma Sigma and has been listed in Who's Who in the Midwest
and Who's Who in America.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service to the
University of Michigan-Flint by naming James H. Wolter Associate Professor
Emeritus of Business Administration.
Memorials
Provost Vest reported the death of one faculty member. On a motion by Regent
Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents voted unanimously to adopt the
following memorial statement:


-240 -



May Meeting, 1990


The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
April 28, 1990, of Raymond Fred Falasco, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry in
the School of Dentistry and associate professor of community health programs in the
School of Public Health.
Born in Denver, Colorado, on October 28, 1933, Dr. Falasco studied
pre-dentistry at Regis College in Denver from 1952-54, earned his D.D.S. degree from
the Creighton University School of Dentistry in Omaha, Nebraska, in 1958, and his
M.P.H. degree from the University of Michigan's School of Public Health in 1971.
From 1958-59, he was a clinical dentist in a family dental clinic at Lowry Air Force
Base in Denver. He then operated a private practice in Westminster, Colorado, from
1959-69. He had served in the U.S. Army Reserve Dental Corps since 1974, achieving
the rank of colonel in 1982, and was a commander in the 652nd Medical Detachment
(dental services) from 1978-81.
In 1971, Dr. Falasco began his teaching career at the University of Iowa's
College of Dentistry in Iowa City, where he was an assistant professor in the
Department of Preventive and Community Dentistry. From 1972-74, he was an
assistant professor at Emory University's School of Dentistry in Atlanta, Georgia,
where he taught in the Department of Operative Dentistry and was program director
and dental auxiliary utilization director of the TEAM program. He returned to the
University of Michigan in 1974 to join the faculty as a lecturer in dental public health
and assistant professor in the Department of Community Dentistry. He was promoted
to associate professor in 1979.
Dr. Falasco's work focused primarily on dental practice administration and
community dental health outreach programs. He designed a curriculum to teach
dental practice management, and co-produced three videotape teaching aids. In 1971,
he was honored with an award for his service to disadvantaged children from the
Tri-County Health Department in Commerce City, Colorado, and he co-authored and
presented a paper about a dental health program for migrant workers.
Dr. Falasco was an active member of a number of professional organizations,
including the American Association of Dental Schools, Metro-Denver Dental Society,
Westminster Dental Study Club, Rocky Mountain Dental Study Club, University
District Dental Society, and the American, Colorado, Iowa, and Michigan Dental
Associations.
Dr. Falasco's colleague and friend, Dr. Emerson Robinson, described Dr.
Falasco as "a kind and gentle man who loved people" and who "would be greatly
missed". In his memory, the department has established the Raymond F. Falasco
Scholarship Fund, which will contribute $1,000 to students who have demonstrated
excellence and compassion in the area of public health.
As we mourn the loss of this great scholar and teacher, our condolences go to
his wife, Violet Ziegmann Falasco; his son, Ronald; and his daughters, Laura and
Gina.
Degrees
Regent Roach moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, changes to previously approved degree lists and the final degree list for the
December, 1989 Law School Commencement.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl Smith, Director of University Audits, submitted the regular six month
report on University Audits for the period October 1, 1989 through March 31, 1990.


-241 -



May Meeting, 1990


Mr. Smith responded to several questions from the Regents about the internal audit
reporting and followup procedures.
Audit of Health Professions and Nursing Student Loan Programs, July 1, 1985 to June
30, 1987
Vice President Womack submitted excerpts of the report of an audit conducted
by University Audits and certified by Ernst & Young to satisfy requirements of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 1990-91
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Brown seconded, approval of the expenditure
of the income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson Endowment
Funds for the fiscal year 1990-91, as outlined in the Regents Communication. The
motion was approved unanimously.
Legal Research Building. Regent Nielsen inquired whether any plans have been
made to replace the facade of the Legal Research Building. Vice President Womack
responded that the dean is aware of the Regents' desire to improve the appearance of
this building and shares their sentiments; however, none of the possible alternatives
for doing this is ideal, and each requires a significant expenditure of funds. He noted
that Dean Bollinger's long-term plan is to eventually be able to raise the $20 million
that would be required to replace the building.
Following some discussion, it was decided that the most inexpensive short-term
solution would be to paint the facade and the bridge. The Regents requested that they
be consulted before any decisions are made about the type and the color of paint to be
used.
209 Packard, Ann Arbor
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Smith seconded, that the property at 209
Packard in Ann Arbor be accepted as a gift from Wilma Steketee-Bean and
immediately put on the market for sale.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, University Investment Officer
Norman Herbert explained that the property would be listed with an agent or
advertized for sale and bids invited. In the interest of fairness to the realtor
community and of reducing expenses, Regent Smith requested that the sale be
handled through the bid process.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously. Regents
Roach and Baker commented on Ms. Steketee-Bean's devotion to the University and
her generosity in making this donation, the proceeds from which will be used for a
student aid fund in the School of Nursing.
Parcel of Vacant Land, Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor
Regent Power moved, and Regent Nielsen seconded, acceptance of the offer by
the Michigan State Department of Treasury of $1,000 for a small parcel of land owned


-242 -



May Meeting, 1990


by the University on Plymouth Road adjacent to the Environmental Protection Agency
testing facility. A sidewalk will cross this property after the city of Ann Arbor
completes a project to widen Plymouth Road.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Mr. William Krumm, Associate
Vice President for Business Operations, noted that University planning staff had been
involved in the original planning for this project. Regent Power requested that there
be a presentation next month about how the Plymouth Road construction project will
affect the University's North Campus. Regent Roach pointed out that conveying that
piece of property would substantially affect the University's rights, should the state
ever vacate Plymouth Road.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Upgrade of HIS Mainframe Computer
This is a request by University Hospitals to purchase an upgrade for the HIS
mainframe computer with the corresponding memory upgrade. It was explained that
this upgrade would provide adequate capacity through the fall of 1991.
Following some discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the purchase of an
upgrade of the HIS IBM mainframe 3090 300E processor to a 3090 300J processor
with the addition of 128 MB of extended storage. Regent Roach seconded the motion,
and it was adopted.
Conversion of 10 Moderate Care Nursery Bassinets to Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
(NICU) Beds
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health for the conversion of ten moderate care
nursery (MCN) bassinets to neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) beds.
University of Michigan Hospitals Medical Procedures Unit
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that bids had been received and
contracts awarded for construction of the Medical Procedures Unit. The beds have
resulted in a reduction of the project budget by $365,873.
Renovation Projects
Regent Smith moved, Regent Roach seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved the following projects: Lorch Hall gutter replacement, partial renovation of
the S.T. Dana Building, and completion of the fourth floor of the Willard Henry Dow
Laboratory.
Proposed Research Contract between the University of Michigan and In-Vitro
Technology Corporation (IVT)
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously authorized the University's entering into a research contract with IVT
(In-Vitro Technology Corporation). This contract falls under the State of Michigan


-243 -



May Meeting, 1990


Conflict of Interest Statute, because the project director, Frizell L. Vaughan, will be
employed by both the University of Michigan and by IVT. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contract will the University of Michigan and IVT.
2. The contract reflects standard University research and intellectual
property policies; its licensing terms provide for a reasonable royalty
to the University. IVT will pay the University $16,660 for its direct
costs. Indirect costs are waived by the University for Phase I SBIR
awards. The contract period of performance shall be six months. The
employment period for Professor Vaughan with IVT will also be six
months.
3. Professor Vaughan's pecuniary interest arises from his employment by
IVT.
Proposed Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Microsensor,
Inc.
Regent Smith moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan
Microsensor, Inc. for the use of the University's Electron Microbeam Analysis
Laboratory (EMAL) to perform routine testing services. The EMAL will be used to
fulfill a contractual obligation between Michigan Microsensor and the Xentaur
Corporation that involves "trade secret issues which require maintenance of
confidentiality beyond what the University is able to provide". Regent Roach asked
for a further explanation of these trade secret issues and how they relate to the
University's research guidelines.
Because the owner of Michigan Microsensor, Selden B. Crary, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1. The parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and
Michigan Microsensor, Inc.
2. The contract will be in the form of a purchase order for $10,000,
whereby Michigan Microsensor will reimburse the University for the
use of EMAL as required to perform the routine testing services.
Approximately 136 hours of EMAL time will be required. No
University compensation or release time is required for faculty
members involved in this effort. The University will have access to
proprietary materials of Michigan Microsensor's contractor and will
be required to return the materials upon completion of the tests.
3. The contract between Michigan Microsensor and Xentaur
Corporation is for $62,360. Selden Crary will receive compensation
under that contract for services provided as an employee of Michigan
Microsensor.


-244 -



May Meeting, 1990


Proposed Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Consortium for
International Earth Science Information Network (CIESEN)
Regent Roach moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and CIESEN for carrying
out the basic ordering agreement and related task orders.
CIESEN was incorporated as a non-profit corporation under the laws of the
State of Michigan by the University of Michigan, Saginaw Valley State University, and
the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan. Farris W. Womack, VicePresident and Chief Financial Officer, participated as an incorporator in filing the
incorporation papers, and each incorporating member has two representatives on the
CIESIN Board of Trustees. The University's representatives are Douglas E. Van
Houweling and Charles M. Vest.
Because Messrs. Womack, Van Houweling, and Vest are University employees,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. The parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and
CIESIN, Inc.
2. The initial contract between CIESIN and the University will be in the
form of a Basic Ordering Agreement limited to $654,120 over a
period of fourteen months. CIESIN and the University will agree
upon Task Orders for specific aspects of the project within the budget
limit for the Basic Ordering Agreement. University compensation for
Dr. Van Houweling may be included, depending on his scientific
involvement in particular Task Orders. The Basic Ordering
agreement is consistent with standard University policies regarding
publication and intellectual property.
3. CIESIN board members will not be reimbursed for service on the
board. Pecuniary interests of University employees will be limited to
portions of their University salaries which may be included in Task
Order agreements.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Provost Vest stated that neither
he, Vice President Womack, or Vice Provost Van Houweling had any personal
financial interest in this agreement. He also confirmed that if any other type of
conflict arose, the matter would come before the Regents.
1990-91 University Health Service Fee
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Smith seconded, authorization of an increase
of $5.00 per student per term for the 1990-91 University Health Service fee. Dr.
Caesar Briefer, Director of the Health Service, responded to questions from Regent
Baker about Health Service's operations. Following the discussion, the vote was
taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


-245 -



May Meeting, 1990


University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Development Plan
Due to some concerns on the part of the Regents, it was decided to delay
consideration of the University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Development Plan
until a later meeting.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1991
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following schedule of meetings for the 1991 calendar year:
January 17-18                    July 18-19
February 7-8                     August no meeting
March 14*-15                     September 19-20
April 18-19                      October 17**-18
May 16-17                        November 14-15
June 13-14                       December 19-20
*Held at UM-Dearborn
*Held at UM-Flint
Spring Graduate Commencement exercises in 1991 will be held on Saturday,
May 4.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff
membership.
SACUA
President Duderstadt introduced Peggie Hollingsworth, chair of SACUA for
1990-91, to the meeting participants.
The meeting then recessed to enable the participants to go to the Michigan
Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics
indicated: Robert Morgan, citizen, about an employee grievance and about
discrimination at City Hall; Jennifer Van Valey, student and chair of MSA, about
recommendations of the Student Advisory Committee on the Discriminatory
Harassment Policy and about her goals for the Michigan Student Assembly.


-246 -



May Meeting, 1990


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of April,
1990 totalled $2,362.99. The next meeting will take place on June 21 and 22, 1990.
ichard L   enn    Se    ry


-247 -



JUNE MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 21, 1990
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Johnson, Swain, and Womack were also present, as
were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Vice President Kelly was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and congratulated Provost
Vest on his being named President-designate of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. He then called on Vice President Womack to present the report of the
Task Force on Campus Safety and Security.
Report of the Task Force on Campus Safety and Security
Vice President Womack called to the table Dean Paul Boylan, Chair of the Task
Force, who introduced the members of the task force who were present at the
meeting. Dean Boylan noted that Professor James Snyder, head of the Studies in
Urban Security Group in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, had
provided staff support, including background information on security incidents,
policies, and programs at the University of Michigan and on other large university
campuses. Dean Boylan reported that the task force had also solicited the assistance
of Professor Ronald Inglehart, of the Institute for Social Research, in conducting a
survey of "Perceptions of Safety and Security at the University of Michigan" as another
aid to the committee in preparing its recommendations.
Dean Boylan reported that one of the task force's concerns was that there needs
to be better coordination of policies dealing with safety and security, and expansion of
services such as North Walk, Safe Walk, and Night Owl bus service. The task force
had developed a set of twelve recommendations, which cover a broad range of issues
addressing problems of safety and security on the University of Michigan Ann Arbor
campus. The recommendations are to be found in the task force report that is
included with agenda materials.
Noting that there was a related action item to be considered the next day, the
president then opened up the task force report for discussion. Regent Baker observed
that although there are complaints on campus that the police do not respond to minor
complaints, the Ann Arbor police have responded admirably on many occasions to
emergency situations on campus. Regarding the task force report, Regent Baker said
that the material covered in the report is much too broad; he believed that the major
issue was whether the University's having its own deputized police force would be in
the best interests of the University and of the community, and that any other issues are
superfluous. He emphasized that the vote that will occur at the current meeting
should not be interpreted as an endorsement of any other issues addressed in the
report, such as the student code of conduct, to which he was personally opposed.


-249 -



June Meeting, 1990


Regent Nielsen stated that the Board of Regents has an obligation to do all in
its power to ensure that there is a safe environment on campus. He expressed concern
about the lack of accountability for the police protection currently being provided by
the city in exchange for a payment from the Umversity, and said that the Regents have
a fiduciary obligation to require accountability for this on the part of the city. Regent
Nielsen also said that there should be more study of such issues as jurisdiction and the
seasonal nature of the University's needs, prior to the implementation of the proposed
campus police force.
Regent Roach observed that the task force report has demonstrated that there is
a definite concern among the campus community about issues of personal safety and
security. Given that fact and the fact that crime statistics at the Umversity of Michigan
are higher than those of other large public universities, he said that it would not be
very responsible or responsive for the board to close its eyes to the very real problem
that exists. Concerns about jurisdiction and other implementation issues need to be
addressed, he continued, but the general concept of the board's taking some steps to
make this a safer, more secure environment, where people are free to learn, and free
to study and free to associate with each other is very important.
Regent Power asked Dean Boylan to describe the data that had been gathered
by the task force on campus crime statistics and perceptions of campus safety and
security.
Dean Boylan introduced Professor Snyder, who stated that reporting
mechanisms and jurisdictional issues in Ann Arbor make it difficult to get an accurate
statistical measure of the amount of crime that occurs, and that this is compounded by
the fact that the majority of crimes are not reported. Nevertheless, he said that it is
clear that there are serious problems at the University of Michigan that are very
similar to those at other universities, and that of the five other universities surveyed,
the University of Michigan is near the high end in seriousness of crime.
Regent Baker asked to make a comment on another subject, because he had to
leave the meeting. He noted that the Ann Arbor News had recently published an
editorial in which it had criticized the University for lack of leadership, and that
furthermore, the paper appeared to blame the University for many of the city's
problems and complained about the amount of the University's financial contribution
to the city. Regent Baker noted that much of the University's $1.7 billion annual
budget is spent in and around the city of Ann Arbor. He also mentioned that he
personally feels unsafe walking around late at night in downtown Ann Arbor. He
concluded by stating that in his opinion, the Ann Arbor News is as much to blame for
the city's problems as is the city leadership and University leadership, because it has
not devoted its efforts to the problems, such as crime, that affect the community as a
whole.
Regent Baker then left the meeting and Professor Snyder continued responding
to questions from Regent Power about the relation of the crime statistics to the need
for a University police force. Professor Snyder said that the compelling reason for a
university to have its own police force is that the force is under its own control, and
thereby it can establish its own standard operating procedures and design a specialized
force that is geared to serve the unique needs of a university campus. Campus police
officers know the campus and are members of the campus community; they can be
placed under highly restrictive rules on the use of firearms; and they can undergo


-250 -



June Meeting, 1990


specialized training in order to provide specialized services to the campus community.
Regent Nielsen asked for copies of the data that Professor Snyder had compiled
for the comparisons of crime statistics among various universities. He expressed
concern about the possibility that there might be armed personnel patrolling the
campus. Dean Boylan responded that the task force shared that concern and that its
goal was to have a more visible security presence, not necessarily an armed presence.
Professor Snyder pointed out that in effect, the campus already has an armed force, in
the form of Ann Arbor police officers. He noted that although there are different
models for the design of a campus police force, there is really no such thing as an
unarmed police officer, and that modern police forces basically use weapons only for
self-defense.
Regent Nielsen reiterated his belief that for the most part, there was no need to
have all of the sworn police officers equipped with guns.
Regent Varner said that her main concern is how the campus police force would
be structured, including jurisdictional considerations between the campus and city
police, the number of police officers that would be needed to have a significant effect
on the amount of crime that occurs, how the force should be organized and distributed
around the campus. She said that she was supportive of the administration's efforts to
improve campus security and safety, and felt additional information would be helpful.
Professor Snyder said that once the authority is granted to have sworn police
officers, there were a number of different models that could be considered in
designing the University's own security force. He stressed that whatever model was
chosen would probably not be a comprehensive, city-like police department. Thus,
there would need to be cooperation with the city and the county, with the university
probably contracting with the city for some specialized services and the university
being available to assist the city during emergencies. Likewise, Professor Snyder
pointed out that the fact that there would be jurisdictional and other issues to be
worked out provides an opportunity for the university and the city to work together to
creatively to improve the overall safety situation for both the campus and the city.
While she questioned the notion that that there is a problem with safety on
campus, Regent Smith said that she felt the University should work with the city to
improve the situation, and not create a police force that is accountable only to the
administration. She noted that the students had had a referendum in which they had
voted overwhelmingly against the creation of a campus police force. Approval of this
request would indicate that the administration was not taking student opinion into
account, and that there would be a danger of destroying the open atmosphere of the
University of Michigan. Regent Smith stated that there was a recent trend of
restricting student freedoms, exemplified by the institution of the student
anti-harassment policy and the disbanding of the University Council, and that creation
of an armed police force would be another restrictive action. Regent Smith concluded
that in her opinion, this is a no-win situation which would result in a loss of revenue
for the city, increased costs for the University, and alienation among students, and that
it would lead to a deterioration in the relationship between the city and the University.
She felt there must be a more creative way to resolve the situation, and expressed
concern that nobody was advocating on behalf of the students.
Dean Boylan pointed out that the task force had commissioned the Institute for


-251 -



June Meeting, 1990


Social Research to conduct a survey to discover the perception of campus safety
among faculty, staff, undergraduate and graduate students, broken down by gender
and race. On the question of whether or not to expand the Department of Safety and
Security to include its own police officers with powers of arrest, he reported that the
results were overwhelmingly in favor for the total sample, and that this held true
among every category of students and among every minority group.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President Womack said that
there is currently no formal contract with the city, but that there is an arrangement in
which there is a certain full-time equivalent number of people on which the University
bases its payment to the city. Associate Vice President William Krumm said that the
city currently provides seven officers, two investigators, and one-third of a commander.
There was further discussion about how this number compares to the number of sworn
officers on other campuses with their own departments and about the advantages in
terms of responsiveness and sensitivity of a campus-run police force.
The discussion then turned to consideration of the fiscal impact of establishment
of a University police force on both the city's and the University's budgets. Vice
President Womack pointed out that the first year would be a transition which would
not have a fiscal impact on the city. After that, the University would begin to
implement its own force, but he emphasized that there is no intention of having an
entire force of sworn officers. Vice President Womack and Associate Vice President
Krumm responded to questions from Regent Nielsen about specifics of the proposed
and the costs that would be involved. Regent Nielsen pointed out that the University
needs to be realistic in calculating costs.
Regent Brown observed that the Board recognizes that there is a serious
security problem on campus, that the University definitely has a responsibility to do
something about it, and that it is clear that what is currently being done has not
effectively addressed the situation. He pointed out that University officials had been
negotiating with city officials for many years, and that in response to recent attempts
to improve the campus security, were told that even if the University were to increase
its financial contribution, the city could not guarantee additional manpower. Noting
that the Regents had received a letter that day from the mayor protem and the city
administrator requesting that the matter be tabled and that the regents meet with
them on this issue, Regent Brown said that the University had already been
negotiating for months with the city and had been unable to obtain a satisfactory
resolution.
Acknowledging Regent Smith's concerns, Regent Brown said that it would be
incumbent on the Board to ensure that the use of arms would be carefully regulated.
He said that the experience of other campuses indicates that it is possible to resolve
such concerns satisfactorily and at the same time better address problems with campus
safety and security. He concluded that unless the city were to present new arguments,
he felt there was no alternative for the Board other than to proceed with the proposed
plan. Although the Regents wish the problem didn't exist, Regent Brown
acknowledged that it does, and that it is the Regents' responsibility to protect our
students, faculty, and staff.
Regent Roach commented that while it is appropriate for University officials to
listen to and evaluate input from the city, it would be inappropriate for the Regents


-252 -



June Meeting, 1990


themselves to meet with members of City Council to resolve the issue. He also noted
that the Regents should focus on the broader policy issue of whether the security
would be handled by people responsible to University officials or to city officials, and
not on the specifics of how a police force should be organized. He recalled the period
of student activism in the 1960's when the county sheriff used questionable control
tactics, which the University had no power to challenge. Under the proposed system,
University officials would have the authority to control the behavior of the University's
own police force. Finally, Regent Roach reiterated the point that modern police
forces use weapons only for self-defense, and that the Regents should limit their own
discussion to the question of whether the city or the university can best meet the
university's needs for police protection.
Regent Power expressed concern about how the proposed changes in security
provision and parking enforcement would affect the city's finances. He expressed the
hope that as these issues are dealt with, the University would try to be as responsive
and as flexible as it possibly could to help the city deal with its problems.
President Duderstadt pointed out that Ann Arbor is one of the reasons for the
distinction of the University, and that the University has always been and under his
leadership would continue to be deeply committed to working with the city of Ann
Arbor. He said that the University recognizes the city's financial difficulties and the
University's responsibility to assist the city when appropriate, and emphasized the
necessity of the University's continued partnership with the city, both to address the
city's needs and the University's needs.
Regent Varner noted that being able to control its own police force creates an
opportunity for the University to think creatively about how best to address the
problems that exist.
Regent Smith moved to table the issue until University officials had an
opportunity to meet with city officials, but the president pointed out that a motion was
not yet on the table. He thanked the members of the task force for their work, and
discussion of this issue was concluded until the following day. There followed a
five-minute recess.
University of Michigan Hospitals Proposed 1990-91 Operating Budget
Vice President Womack welcomed Mr. John Forsyth to present the University
of Michigan Hospitals proposed 1990-91 Operating Budget. Mr. Forsyth displayed a
chart that indicated that whereas Hospitals expenditures have risen from $154 million
in FY 1981 to a projected $440 million in FY 1990, the percentage of the budget spent
for supplies has remained the same, at 33%, while the percentage allocated for payroll
has decreased from 62% to 56%. During this time, the proportion of full-time
equivalent employees classified as care givers as opposed to administration had risen
from 45.8% of the total to 67% of the total, while the actual number of
non-care-givers had decreased from 2,414 to 2,061. This change in employee mix is
especially noteworthy, since it occurred during the transition from the old hospital to
the new hospital complex, with its more labor-intensive clinical service structure.
Mr. Forsyth explained that payment shortages (the difference between payment
increases and cost increases) have been covered in the past by growth in the number
of admissions and increased acuity of illness and by expense reductions. Over the next


-253 -



June Meeting, 1990


five years, however, there will need to be major investments in care giver training and
compensation, coupled with a limited ability to increase new revenue through growth
and acuity. For FY 1992-1996, costs will increase an average of 6.4% per year, while
payments will increase an average of 3.4%, leaving a shortfall of 3% per year, or a
total of $110 million from 1992-1996.
Mr. Forsyth reviewed the Hospitals' long-term strategies to eliminate payment
shortages. These include the "Total Quality" program, which is a process for
identifying improvements in the workplace, with maximum employee involvement;
engaging in new clinical ventures to increase revenue and new administrative ventures
to decrease expenses; program modification to either enhance, reduce, or eliminate
existing programs; maximum utilization of ancillaries, commodities, and fixed
resources; review and consolidation of management structure; investigation of joint
cost savings potential with central campus; and improving efficiency by reducing the
cost per unit of service.
Mr. Forsyth pointed out that FY 1990-91 will be a transitional year, and he
reviewed the assumptions on which the operating budget is based, one of which is a
13.1% room rate increase. The components of the 13.1% increase are 9.2% for the
salary program and 3.9% for increased commodities costs. He displayed a chart
comparing University Hospitals rates with those of other hospitals. Finally, he
presented a breakdown of the proposed 1990-91 operating budget of $506.083 million
in operating expenses and $508.083 in operating revenues.
Regent Power moved approval of the 1990-91 University of Michigan Hospitals
1990-91 operating budget. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion. Following further
discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved unanimously. President
Duderstadt and the Regents praised Mr. Forsyth and his staff for their skills at running
what the president characterized as one of the best managed hospitals in the United
States.
Substance Abuse Joint Venture Bylaws
This was a request that the Regents reconsider their action taken at the April,
1990 meeting in which the approval of the bylaws governing the Substance Abuse Joint
Venture between Chelsea Community Hospital (CCH) and University of Michigan
Medical Center (UMMC) was made contingent on amending the bylaws to reflect the
Regents' desire to appoint the executive director. Vice President Womack and Mr.
Forsyth reported that in subsequent discussions with the leadership of CCH, the CCH
representatives had reinforced their view that it is essential that the joint venture
board be vested with the responsibility for appointing the executive director, following
the procedure described in the operating agreement, as opposed to the bylaws.
Mr. Forsyth explained that he had conducted the negotiations with CCH fully
cognizant of the Regents' previously expressed desires to appoint the majority of the
board members. CCH was approaching the matter from the point of view of its being
a joint venture among co-equals, and they had compromised throughout the
negotiations on a number of details regarding the size and makeup of the board.
UMMC had compromised on stating in the bylaws that the seventh member of the
board would be the executive director, but having in the operating agreement that the
control of that individual would be at the University of Michigan. The operating
agreement states that the three-member selection committee would consist of two


-254 -



June Meeting, 1990


UMMC representatives and one CCH representative (the chair of the University's
Psychiatry Department as chair of the committee, one regentally-appointed board
member and one CCH-appointed board member). Mr. Forsyth stated that he felt that
this arrangement represented a reasonable compromise, and that it would not be
productive for the University's Board of Regents to insist on having it in the bylaws.
Dr. Zuidema, Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, reported that he agreed with
Mr. Forsyth's assessment. He noted that the Substance Abuse Joint Venture would be
the third joint venture between UMMC and CCH, and that he anticipated that there
would be other long-term joint ventures that would arise in the future.
Regent Power moved that after further consideration, the Regents approve the
bylaws for the Substance Abuse Joint Venture between Chelsea Community Hospital
and the University of Michigan Medical Center as previously submitted, and that the
appointment mechanism of the executive director be defined and set forth in the
operating agreement. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion.
Regents Brown and Roach noted that with the proposed arrangement, to be
described in the operating agreement as opposed to the bylaws, the University still
retains control of the executive director selection committee.
Regent Smith pointed out that it is the bylaws, and not the operating agreement,
that ultimately controls the situation in the long run. She stated that it is in the best
interest of the University to have the executive director selection procedure spelled
out in the bylaws. Mr. Forsyth pointed out that in the spirit of a joint venture, CCH
had already made significant compromises in the negotiations, recognizing the needs
of the Board of Regents. He agreed with the CCH negotiators that the proposal being
considered is a reasonable compromise.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved,
with Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner in favor and Regent Smith
opposed. Regents Baker and Waters were not present when the vote was taken.
Status of the 1990-91 Operating Budget
Provost Vest and Vice President Kennedy reported that there had been no
change in the outlook for the legislature's higher education appropriation. Vice
President Kennedy said that it is expected that the budget will be finalized by July 4th.
The meeting then recessed to allow the participants to move to the Anderson
Room in the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Fanshen Cox, president of Kuumba and Roger Fisher, member of Kuumba,
about funding for Kuumba; Jennifer Van Valey, president of MSA, Corey Dolgon,
member of MSA, and Jonathan Rose, alumnus, about the proposed deputization and
establishment of a campus security force; and Ann Marie Coleman and Ingrid
Sheldon, members of Ann Arbor City Council, about city-university relations.


-255 -



June Meeting, 1990


Friday, June 22, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Brown, Power, Roach, Smith,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Johnson, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones
and Wilson. Regent Baker arrived shortly after the start of the meeting; Regent
Nielsen and Vice President Kelly were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, and announced that the first
order of business would be consideration of Michigan Student Assembly financial
matters.
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Matters
Vice President Swain introduced Mr. James Croppi, from Plante & Moran; Mr.
Aaron Williams, immediate past president of Michigan Student Assembly; Ms.
Jennifer Van Valey, current president of Michigan Student Assembly; and Mr. Rodger
Wolf, assistant to the Vice President for Student Services. She reported that MSA's
financial management had improved noticeably during Mr. Williams' tenure, although
the Plante & Moran audits had identified a number of deficiencies in internal control
structures. Vice President Swain said that Ms. Van Valey's administration would be
implementing a number of very specific plans, as outlined in the management letter, to
further improve the situation during the coming year.
Mr. Wolf and Ms. Van Valey responded to questions from Regents Roach and
Power, respectively, related to how MSA planned to respond to and implement the
specific procedures set forth in the management letter and responses. In response to a
question from Regent Power, Ms. Van Valey confirmed that MSA "wholeheartedly
concurs and plans to execute the Plante & Moran management letter", and has
specified in its responses how it will execute the recommendations.
President Duderstadt then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Minutes
Regent Smith moved approval of the minutes of the meeting of May 17, 1990.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations for the month of June, 1990.
There were also monthly reports of Projects Established Research and Other
Academic Activities, May 1, 1990 to May 31, 1990, and Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research and Sponsored Projects. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent Roach, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the Reports.


-256 -



June Meeting, 1990


Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of May, 1990. He also announced
that the figure for "Dollars Received" was 15.6% ahead of the year-to-date figure for
May, 1989. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
voted unanimously to receive the Gifts, with thanks, and in accordance with their
terms and conditions:
Abbott Laboratories Fund, North Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 10,135
AIPAGIA Educational Foundation, McLean, Virginia
for the Isadore and Leon Winkelman Chair in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for fellowships and scholarships in the School of Business Administration, and the
College of Engineering                                                      34,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                 94,578
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts              7,000
American Diabetes Association,hMichigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the School of Public Health                                  6,750
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Good Teaching Award, the Amoco Foundation Funds
in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     14,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                               180,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the Institute of Gerontology        38,167
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Bauer, Sr., Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               8,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship                         28,326
Les and Anne Biederman Foundation, Inc., Traverse City
for support of the College of Engineering, the Medical School, and the University
of Michigan Hospital                                                        20,000
Peter F. Borish New York New York
for the Institute of Public Policy Studies                                  26,058
John P. Brady Estate
for the Medical School                                                      10,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                           5,000
Bristol-Myers, Evansville Indiana
for the David G. Dickinson Academic Advancement Fund in the Medical School   5,000
Walter S. Brown Trust, Seattle2 Washington
for support of the Medical School                                            7,476
Budd Company Troy
for the Partnership Program in the College of Engineering                    5,000
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            25,000
Chevron U.SA., Inc., Concord, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources, and for Employee Matching Gifts  5,385
Chrysler Corporation, Detroit
for Intelligent Vehicle research in the College of Engineering              20,000
Citibank (Delaware), New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  7,495
Citicorp-Citibank, Long Island City New York
for support of the School of Business Administration                        15,000
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Center            20,000
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Social Research                            22,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Summer Shakespeare Repertory Theater   5,000


-257 -



June Meeting, 1990


Computer and Engineering Consultants, Ltd., Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              25,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA  Inc.,       New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          30,000
David Davidoff, Kalamazoo
ninety-seven shares of Matsushita Electric common stock; for the Department of
Athletics                                                                   13,144
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          35,000
C. Jay Deeds, Grosse Pointe
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               7,000
Suzanne Demaline Estate
for the Sue Ann Demaline Fund in the Alumni Association                     30,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts             50,445
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching
Gifts                                                                        7,823
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               7,250
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  8,887
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 14,490
Rosa M. Falk Trust, Phoenix, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering, the School of Public Health,
and the Michigan League                                                     15,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                      10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the William Clay Ford Funds in the College of Engineering, the Henry Ford
Estate at Fair Lane, and the Ford Manufacturing Fund in the School of Business
Administration                                                             551,000
Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering                                  21,541
Galenpharma, Inc. Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           8,238
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                             6,861
Gencorp, Fairlawn Ohio
Tor the Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering                    20,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Fund in the College of Engineering  100,000
Alvin Glick, Jackson
2,000 shares of Quanex Corporation common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                              31,375
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 22,100
Eugene J. Hochman Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      21,173
Honigman Foundation Inc., Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  49,848
Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Foundation Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration  5,000
International Heart of Variety Lifeline, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            8,212
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                          10,000
Knights of Vartan, Ardaz Lodge, Los Angeles, California
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program            5,000
Louis A. Kubicek Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                     130,000
Maccabees Life Insurance Company, Southfield
for the Maccabees Mutual Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                      11,000
Marathon Oil Company Findlay, Ohio
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College of Engineering  15,000


-258 -



June Meeting, 1990


Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,430
Mazda Distributors-Great Lakes Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Thomas B. McDonald, Skaneateles, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School           60,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    9,422
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society,                                          5,000
Zelpha E. McKinnon Trust, Flint
for the Leonard A. and Zelpha E. McKinnon Plaza, and the Library/Learning
Center, at the University ofMichigan-Flint                                 105,000
Edwin E. and Mary Upjohn Meader, Parchment
39,000 shares of Upjohn Company common stock; for the Paul R. Lichter
Professorship in Ophthalmology m the Medical School                       1,477,125
Mid America Institute for Public Policy Research, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Business Administration                        5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation Inc. St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Graduate Materials Science Feilowship in the College of Engineering,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                             12,135
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
For the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                      7,000
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
for the Wlliam K. and Mary Anne Najjar Endowment in the School of Dentistry  100,000
National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 10,700
National Dairy-Promotion and-Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           9,867
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center                                       5,000
Northwest Airlines, St. Paul Minnesota
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Benefit, and for Employee Matching Gifts  5,550
Wayne D. Paulson, Munster, Indiana
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                              7,000
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering                                  25,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation Washington D.C.
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School                   5,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Renaissance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies  15,000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  9,205
Douglas P. Rearick, Stuart, Florida
for the Rearick Graduate Student Support Fund in the School of Education    10,000
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
Tor doctoral fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                          8,000
Donald H. Schiller Estate
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering                    15,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D. Trust, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                          25,000
Helmut Stern Foundation Ann Arbor
for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy Studies  5,000
Gretchen B. M. Stewart Estate
for the Kasimir Fajans Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    17,559
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto California
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics          5,000
George & Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso
for the Symes Scholarship in the College of Engineering                     55,051
Telectronics Pacing Systems, Englewood, Colorado
for pacemaker research in the College of Engineering                         6,250
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,070
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute             5,000
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,075


-259 -



June Meeting, 1990


TRW Automotive Worldwide, Cleveland, Ohio
for the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute             5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 18,318
Constantine A.'Tsangadas Estate
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies                                                                      8,018
Richard H. Turner, Grosse Pointe Farms
175 shares of Digital Equipment Corporation common stock; for support of the
Department of Athletics                                                     15,037
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for theSports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for chemistry equipment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for
the building fund m the College of Pharmacy                                125,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
1 900 AMD microchips; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Edward S. Bordin, Ann Arbor
an extensive collection of books and iournals; for the Department of Psychology
D'Arcy, Masius, Benton and Bowles, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
Two Moviola Magnasyncs; for the Program in Film and Video Studies
Charles C. Dybvig, Ann Arbor
Oil paintings by Zubel Kachadoorian and Rafael Coronel, and a lithograph by Emil Weddige; for
the Museum of Art
Carol Gold, New York, New York
The Goldstein Collection of 229 16mm feature films; for the Program in Film and Video Studies
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
Computer workstations and related support; for the Information Technology Laboratory in the
Department of Chemisty, and for the Manufacturing Systems Engineering Laboratory at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Bryn Roberts, Ann Arbor
432 soft- and hardcover books; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Personnel Actions
Regent Smith moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved the following Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Frances R. Aparicio, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Spanish and American Culture, September 1, 1990
Leonard Barkan, Ph.D., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
History of Art, without tenure, September 1, 1990
Sandor Csorgo, Doctorate, Professor of Statistics, September 1, 1990
Eve J. Higinbotham, M.D., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology
Robin D.G. Kelley, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, September 1, 1990
Catharine A. MacKinnon, J.D., Ph.D., Professor of Law
Diane M. Robins, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Human Genetics
Jeffrey M. Trent, Ph.D., Professor of Radiation Oncology and The Emanual N. Maisel Professor of
Oncology, for a five-year term
Chelsea C. White III, Ph.D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering and Chair of the
Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, for a five-year term, August 1, 1990
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Philip C. Andrews Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, June 22, 1990
Edward West, MA., Associate Professor of Art, September 1, 1990


-260 -



June Meeting, 1990


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Violet H. Barkauskas, Associate Dean for Administration, School of Nursing, and Associate Professor of
Nursing, with tenure, reappointed Associate Dean for Administration, School of Nursing, for a
one-year term, August 1, f990
Lawrence S. Berlin, Associate Dean, School of Education and Associate Professor of Education, with
tenure, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Education, for a one-year term, August 1, 1990
Isadore A. Bernstein, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry and Professor Emeritus of
Environmental and Industrial Health reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
David F. Bohr, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Arthur W. Burks, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor
Emeritus of Philosophy reappointed to active status, for a two-month period
William L. Cash, Jr Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to active status, Fall term, 1990
Malcolm S. Cohen, Director, Co-Divisional Director, and Associate Research Scientist, Institute of Labor
and Industrial Relations, reappointed Director of the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations,
for a one-year term
David E. Crawford, Associate Dean, School of Music, and Professor of Music, with tenure, reappointed
Associate Dean, School of Music, for a three-year term
William R. Dawson, Dugald E. S. Brown Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, and Director of the
Museum of Zoology, reappointed Director of the Museum of Zoology, for a three-year term
Alfred L. Edwards, Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, reappointed to active status, for a
nine-month period, September 1, 1990
Marvin J. Eisenberg, Professor Emeritus of History of Art, reappointed to active status, Academic year,
1990-91
Susan M. Eklund, Associate Dean for Student Affairs and Operations, Law School, reappointed Associate
Dean for Student Affairs and Operations, Law School, for a three-year term
Joseph J. Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to active status, University year, 1990-91
Virginia B. Gordan Assistant Dean, Law School, reappointed Assistant Dean, Law School, for a threeyear term, September 1, 1990
John R. G. Gosling, Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period, September 1, 1990
Shake Ketefian, Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Nursing, and Professor of Nursing, with
tenure, reappointed Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Nursing, for a one-year term,
September 1, 1990
Raleigh Morgan, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Romance Linguistics, reappointed to active status, Fall term,
1990
James V. Neel, Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine,
reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Warren G. Palmer, Associate Professor Emeritus of Education and Associate Professor Emeritus of
Library Science, reappointed to active status, University year, 1990-91
Sheryl S. Pearson, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Chair of the
Department of Humanities, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Chair of the Department of Humanities,
UM-Dearborn, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990
Ernst Pulgram, Hayward Keniston Professor Emeritus of Romance and Classical Linguistics, reappointed
to active status, Fall term, 1990
Maxwell 0. Reade, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, University year,
1990-91
J. Radcliffe Squires, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to active status, University year, 1990-91
Joseph E. Vaughn, Jr. Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to active status,
Fall term, 1990
Sidney Warschausky, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, UM-Dearborn,
reappointed to active status, Winter term, 1991
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Giles G. Bole, Jr., Executive Associate Dean, Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, and Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, appointed Interim Dean, Medical School, for a one-year term
Donald J. Bord, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Interim Chair of the Department of
Natural Sciences UM-Dearborn, appointed Chair of the Department of Natural Sciences,
UM-Dearborn, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990
Donald J. Lewis, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Mathematics,
appointed Chair of the Department of Mathematics, for a a three-year term, July 1 1991
William R. Martin, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, appointed Chair of thfie bDepartment of
Nuclear Engineering, for a five-year term


-261 -



June Meeting, 1990


Walter B. Panko, Director of the Office of Health Sciences Information Technology and Networking,
appointed Assistant Dean for Information Technology, Medical School
Donald J Proctor, Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, appointed Chair of the Department
of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn for a three-year term, September 1 1990
Jeffrey B. Rauch, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, appointed Interim Chair of the Department of
Mathematics, for an eleven-month term, August 1 1990
Arlene W. Saxonhouse, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of
Political Science for a three-year term September 1, 1990
Johannes W. Schwank, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, appointed Interim Chair of the
Department of Chemical Engneering, for a one-year term
Harold W. Stevenson Professor of Psychology, with tenure, appointed Acting Director of the Center for
Japanese Studies, for an eleven-month term, August 1, 1990
Martin K.Whyte, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, appointed Director of the Center for Research on
Social Organization, for a three-year term
Tadataka Yamada, from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to John G. Searle Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, Professor of Physiology, without tenure, and Chair of the
Department of Internal Medicine
Mayer N. Zald, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of Sociology, for a
two-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Michael H. Bradley for a two-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Victor L. Bernard, term expired
Eugene A. Imhoff, Jr., for a two-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice George D. Cameron III, term
expired
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Frederick G. Burgett for the remainder of the term, July 1, 1990 - October 31, 1990, and for a one-year
term, November 1, 1990 - October 31, 1991, vice Arnold P. Morawa, resigned
Sally Holden, for a three-year term, November 1, 1990 - October 31, 1993, vice Charles C. Kelsey, term
expired
Jeffrey L. Shotwell, for a three-year term, November 1, 1990 - October 31, 1993, vice Donald R. Heys,
term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
C. Philip Kearney, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Karen K. Wixson, term expired
Annemarie S. Palincsar, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Frederick W. Bertolaet,
term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
June M. Howard, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Margaret C. Root, term
expired
Ramesh C. Jain, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Ronald M. Gilgenbach,
term expired
Bruce Oakley, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Stephen S. Easter, Jr.,
term expired
Sherry B. Ortner, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Marvin W. Peterson,
term expired
Honorary Degrees Committee
Lillian Bauder, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30 1993 vice Marjorie Lansing, term expired
Elaine K. Didier, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 0, 1993, vice Kathryn W. Tosney, term expired
Billy J. Evans for a three-year term, July 1 1990 - June 30 1993 vice Marilyn Svedja, term expired
Julian T. Hoff, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 3, 1993, vice Margaret A. Leary, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Thomas Hickey, for a two-year term, July 1 1990 - June 30, 1992 vice Percy Bates, resigned
E. Philip Howrey, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Dimitri N. Coucouvanis, term
expired
Janice B. Lindberg, for a three-year term, July 1,1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Donald H. Gray, term expired
Katharine P. Warner, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Stephen M. Pollock, term
expired
Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
John A. Williams, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Raymond W. Ruddon, Jr., term
expired


-262 -



June Meeting, 1990


Middle English Dictionary Council
Ernest N. McCarus, reappointed for a two-year term July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992
Thomas E. Toon, for a two-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Frances K. McSparran, term
expired
Militarv Officer Education Committee
David S. Potter, for the remainder of the term ending June 30, 1991 vice Charles E. Olson, Jr., resigned
E. Benjamin Wylie, reappointed for a two-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992
School of Music Executive Committee
Judith 0. Becker for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Richard Crawford,
term expired
H. Robert Reynolds, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice James Dapogny,
term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Deborah J. Oakley, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Linda L. Daniel, term expired
Cornelia P. Porter, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Cecilia E. Dawkins, term
expired
Division of Physical Education Executive Committee
Bruce A. Watkins, for a two-year term, July  1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Victor L. Katch, term expired
Charles J. Worringham, for a two-year term, luly 1, 1990 - June 30, 1992, vice Joyce I. Lindeman, term
expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Ruth E. Litte, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Robert A. Wolfe, term
expired
Willard G. Manning, for a three-year term, September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1993, vice Roy Penchansky,
term expired
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Gay Ann Delanghe, reappointed for a two-year term, August 1, 1990 - July 31, 1992
Joel D. Howell, or a two-year term, August 1, 1990 - July 31, 1992, vice Daniel G. Green, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Roman Szporluk, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Jack L. Walker, Jr., term expired
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute Executive Committee
Richard E. Burney, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993
James S. Reece, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993
Daniel J. Weintraub, reappointed for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993
UM-Dearbom Citizens Advisory Board
Nancy L. Badore, reappointed for a four-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1994
Margaret Ann Campbell, for a four-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1994, vice Michael Adray, term
expired
David M. Katz, for a four-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1994, vice Fred W. Hoffman, term expired
Linda P. Kughn, for a four-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1994, vice Robert A. Taub, term expired
Herbert Tabor, reappointed for a four-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Thomas A. Bloom, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Robert W. Heywood, term
expired
Kristina U. Hansen, for the Fall term, 1990 vice Bruce A. Richardson, sabbatical leave
William J. Meyer, for a three-year term, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1993, vice Robert A. Bix, term expired
Leaves of Absence. The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for
Associate Professors Christopher C. Dahl and Daniel J. Swift (UM-Dearborn) and for
Assistant Professor Sandra K. Tucker.
Wade H. McCree, Jr. Collegiate Professorship of Law. The Regents approved
the establishment of the Wade H. McCree, Jr. Collegiate Professorship of Law,
effective July 1, 1990.


-263 -



June Meeting, 1990


Toyota Visiting Associate Professor of Japanese Studies and Business
Administration. The Regents approved the appointment of Kiyonori Sakakibara as
the Toyota Visiting Associate Professor of Japanese Studies and Business
Administration for the 1990-91 academic year.
William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English. The Regents approved the
appointment of Michael C. Schoenfeldt as the William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of
English, effective September 1, 1990.
Visiting Netherlands Professor of Greek. The Regents approved the
appointment of Simon R. Slings as the Visiting Netherlands Professor of Greek for the
Academic Year 1990-91.
J. Robert Willson Collegiate Professorship in Obstetrics. The Regents approved
a revision to the terms of the J. Robert Willson Collegiate Professorship in Obstetrics,
changing the appointment period to five years, subject to renewal.
David M. French Professor. The Regents approved the appointment of L.
Nathan Oaklander as the David M. French Professor at the University of
Michigan-Flint, effective July 1, 1990 through June 30, 1992.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
James A. Cogswell, Jr., M.FA., Assistant Professor of Art
School of Business Administration
Charles M. C. Lee, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting
Archie Lockamy III, M.BA., Lecturer in Operations Management
Venkatram Ramaswamy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing
College of Engineering
Robert S. Fijan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, May 1,
1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Thomas J. Gerschick, MA., Lecturer in Sociology
Medical School
Mont J. Cartwright, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1990
Valerie P. Castle, M.D. Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 1, 1990
Robert C. Dysko, D.M.V., Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, May 1, 1990
Michael L. Gregg, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1990
Kenneth A. Jamerson, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Gilbert Keeney, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1990
Mark J. McCarthy, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7 1990
Charles K. Moore M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine July 1, 1990
Ruthann Nichols, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry and Assistant Professor of Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1, 1990
Margaret R. Punch, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1990
Kenneth L. Reola, M.D. Lecturer in Pathology April 9 1990
Brian D. RossPh.D., Assistant Professor of Radiological Sciences and Assistant Professor of Biological
Chemistry, July 1, 1990
Marc G. Soble, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1990
Todd E. Wilson, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1990
-264 -



June Meeting, 1990


School of Music
Robert J. Cardullo, D.FA., Assistant Professor of Theatre
Dennis R. Glocke, M.M., Assistant Professor of Conducting and Music Education
Jerald C. Schwiebert, M.FA., Assistant Professor of Theatre
School ofPublic Health
Paul W. urance, M.S., Assistant Professor of Health Services Management and Policy
Gerald J. Keeler, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, June 1, 1990
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Marcia Y. Watkins, M.FA., Assistant Professor of Art
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Patricia House, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Care
Claudia A. Mooney, M.S.N., Instructor in Nursing
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990
School of Business Administration
David 0. Ulrich, Ph.D., from Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management to Lecturer in Business Administration
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Linda D'Appolonia Knecht, M.S.N., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Business Administration
Frederick B. Talbot Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,
1990 - May 31, 1991
School of Education
Julius S. Cohen, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 - May 31,
1991
Allen Menlo, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
Donald E. P. Smith, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -
May 31, 1991
College of Engineering
Kan Chen, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Professor of
Urban, Technological and Environmental Planning, without tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1990
William M. Keyserling, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering with tenure, and
Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1 - December 31 1990
Guy A. Meadows, Associate Professor of Physical Oceanography, with tenure, Department of Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering and Associate Professor of Physical Oceanography, without
tenure, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, intergovernmental leave, July 1,
1989 - February 28, 1990
Jwo Pan Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bogdana Carpenter, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
Frederick Cooper, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
Martin B. Einhorn, Professor of Physics, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1990 - May 31, 1991
David A. Hollinger, Professor of History, with tenure, visiting professorship leave, September 1, 1990 -
May 31, 1991
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, personal leave, January 1 - May 31, 1991
Gerald F. Linderman, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 - May 31,
Barbara B. Smuts Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Anthropology with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1990
Henry M. Wellman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1990 -
May 31, 1991


-265 -



June Meeting, 1990


Medical School
Richard A. Bowerman, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, June 1 -
November 30, 1990
Alan C. Menge Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1990 - August 31, 1991
School of Music
David D. Gregory, Associate Professor of Music (Computer Arts), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 - December 31, 1990
College of Pharmacv
JohnG.   agner, John G. Searle Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, and Professor of Pharmacology,
without tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1991
School of Public Health
Victor M. Hawthorne, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Professor of Epidemiology, without
tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, July 1, 1990 - June 30, 1991
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Ali A. H. Bazzi, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1990
Mark R. DeCamp, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -
April 30,1991
Frank Garland Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1990
Orin G. Gelderloos, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Professor of Environmental Studies, without
tenure, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1990
David A. James, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30, 1991
John F. Riordan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Professor of Computer and Information
Science, without tenure, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, disability leave, January 22, 1990 -
October 31, 1992
Melita C. Schaum, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -
April 30, 1991
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
A. Raymond Roth, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -
May 31, 1991
UM-Flint School of Management
Dennis F. Ellis Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1990
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Walter M. Spink, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave previously
reported as September 1 - December 31, 1990
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, change of leave without salary end date
from May 31, 1990 to May 14, 1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Clifford A. Ball, Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure
Randolph B. Cooper, Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems
James P. Fry, Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems
Richard T. Helleloid, Assistant Professor of Accounting
Robert Libby, Peat Marwick Main & Co. Professor of Professional Accounting and Professor of
Accounting, with tenure
Joseph A. Machak, Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science
Gregory R. Niehaus, Assistant Professor of Finance and Insurance
Roger L. Wright, Professor of Statistics, with tenure
School of Dentistry
Raymond F. Falasco Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Community Health Programs, with tenure, School of Public Health, April 28, 1990


-266 -



June Meeting, 1990


John H. Kelsey, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 8, 1990
Susan L. Micklow, Lecturer in Dentistry
Robert E. Moyers, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Bonita D. Neighbors, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1990
Billy A. Smith, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, June 30, 1990
College of Engineering
Egons Tons, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Natalie Challis, Lecturer in Slavic Languages and Literatures
George L. Grassmuck, Professor of Political Science, with tenure
William D. K. Green, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Elizabeth Hamp-Lyons, Lecturer in English
Eleanor McKenna, Lecturer in English, June 30, 1990
Alfred G. Meyer, Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Harriet C. Mills, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure
Dennis A. Nawrocki Lecturer in History of Art and Curator of the Museum of Art
Carl M. Pearcy, Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, August 31, 1990
Patricia A. Rosenmeyer, Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin
Alexander J. Ryba, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, June 30, 1990
William H. Sewell, Director of the Center for Research on Social Organization, Professor of History, with
tenure, and Professor of Sociology, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Peter A. S. Smith, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Erwin P. Tschirner, Lecturer in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Nathan T. Whitman, Professor of History of Art, with tenure
Medical School
Isadore A. Bernstein, Professor of Biological Chemistry with tenure, and Professor of Environmental and
Industrial Health, with tenure School of Public Health, June 30, 1990
James B. Chauncey III, Instructor in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1990
Gregory M. Christman, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 30, 1990
Rochelle A. Flumenbaum, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, February 28, 1990
Alan H. Kadish, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Ayman Rifai, Assistant Professor of Radiology, May 11, 1990
Robert J. Schott, Instructor in Surgery, June 16, 1990
Albert J. Silverman, Professor of Psychiatry, March 31, 1990
Mack C. Stirling, Assistant Professor of Surgery2 June 16, 1990
Wayne P. Wolfson, Clinical Instructor II in Radiology, June 1, 1990
Law School
Harry T. Edwards, Professor of Law, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Jessica D. Litman, Associate Professor of Law, without tenure, July 9, 1990
Frederick F. Schauer, Professor of Law, with tenure, July 9 1990
Andrew S. Watson, Professor of Law, with tenure, and Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School
School of Music
Richard E. Nelson, Associate Professor of Theatre, without tenure
School of Nursing
Patricia W. Butler, Assistant Professor of Nursing
Shirley J. Jones, Lecturer in Nursing
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Deborah C. Brown, Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure, May 23, 1990
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Mark H. Ludwick, Assistant Professor of Psychology
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
John W. Strein, Lecturer in Physical Therapy, April 30, 1990
UM-Flint School of Management
Walter J. Woerheide, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Edward A. Ward, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior Industrial Relations, June 30, 1990


-267 -



June Meeting, 1990


Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following Retirement Memoirs:
Isadore A. Bernstein, professor of biological chemistry in the Medical School
and professor of environmental and industrial health in the School of Public Health,
will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 1990, after a long and distinguished
career.
Born on December 23, 1919, in Clarksburg, West Virginia, Professor Bernstein
received his A.B. degree in biology from The Johns Hopkins University in 1941. He
served as a lieutenant and later as a captain in the United States Armed Forces,
Northern Pacific Theatre, from 1941-46. In 1952, he received his Ph.D. degree in
biochemistry from Western Reserve University. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1953 as a research associate in the Institute of Industrial Health (now known
as the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health), and was appointed an
instructor in biological chemistry in the Department of Dermatology in 1954. He was
promoted to assistant professor of biological chemistry in 1957, associate professor of
biological chemistry and associate professor of industrial health in 1961, professor of
industrial health in 1967, and professor of biological chemistry in 1968.
Professor Bernstein's services as a consultant have been in great demand, both
within and outside the University. He was a member of the board of directors of the
Society of Investigative Dermatology from 1967-72, chair of the Governor's Scientific
Panel on PBB in 1976, a member of the NASA/AIBS Flight Proposal Peer Review
Panel in 1978, and of the National Environmental Health Sciences Council,
NIEHS/NIH, from 1984-87. Also active in the community, he was a member of the
Ann Arbor Recreation Advisory Board from 1965-67, serving as chair in 1967.
Internationally known for his research in the areas of environmental toxicology and
cutaneous biochemistry, Professor Bernstein has more than 100 peer-reviewed
publications to his credit, plus numerous book chapters and other scholarly works. He
has been acclaimed as an outstanding teacher whose greatest achievement has been
the nurturing and encouragement of young minds.
Some of the honors Professor Bernstein has received are the Taube
International Memorial Award fessor Research in Psoriasis, a visiting professorship at
Rockefeller University, the Stephen Rothman Memorial Award of the Society for
Investigative Dermatology, and the University of Michigan's Distinguished Faculty
Achievement Award. Most recently, he was awarded the prestigious Order of the
Rising Sun from the emperor and government of Japan for promoting dermatological
research interaction at the international level. He was also named an honorary
professor at Kunming Medical College in the People's Republic of China.
In recognition of his outstanding contributions and achievements, the Regents
now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Isadore A. Bernstein
Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry and Professor Emeritus of Environmental
and Industrial Health.
George L. Grassmuck, professor of political science, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1990, after a career at the University of Michigan that lasted 33
years.
Born in Nebraska, Professor Grassmuck earned his A.B. and M.A. degrees in
1941 and 1943, respectively, from the University of California at Los Angeles. He
interrupted his graduate training to serve with the U.S. Navy in the Pacific during
World War II. After the war, he attended The Johns Hopkins University, where he


-268 -



June Meeting, 1990


received his Ph.D. degree in 1949. Before joining the University of Michigan faculty,
he taught at Hopkins, Boston University, UCLA, and the American University of
Beirut.
Professor Grassmuck joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor
of political science in 1957. He was promoted to associate professor in 1959 and to
professor in 1964. From 1960-71, he served as special assistant to the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, and as executive assistant on the White House staff.
He has also been associated in various capacities with the Earhart Foundation, the
Ford Presidential Library, and the Gerald R. Ford Foundation.
At the University of Michigan, Professor Grassmuck served as assistant vice
president for academic affairs, on the Senate Assembly, as a member of the executive
committees of the Institute for Social Research and the committee for gender
research, and as director of admissions and financial aid for the Department of
Political Science. His service has been marked by his care, thoughtfulness, and
dedication to the University's welfare.
Professor Grassmuck's research contributions include monographs on the
Congress and foreign policy, Lebanese public administration, and studies of
Afghanistan. More recently, he has turned his scholarly attention to the U.S.
Presidency, and worked on projects relating to White House conferences and the
federal budget. Known as a considerate, thoughtful, and extremely helpful teacher,
Professor Grassmuck received the University's Amoco Good Teaching Award in 1983.
The Regents now salute this distinguished political scientist for his dedicated
service by naming George L. Grassmuck Professor Emeritus of Political Science.
Alfred G. Meyer, professor of political science, retired from active faculty status
on May 31, 1990, after a career at the University of Michigan that spanned 24 years.
Professor Meyer was born and raised in Germany, and received his primary and
secondary education there. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II,
receiving a Bronze Star. He earned his A.M. degree in Slavic languages and literature
in 1946 and his Ph.D. degree in political science in 1950, both from Harvard
University. Before joining the faculty at the University of Michigan, he taught at
Harvard, the University of Washington, Columbia University, and Michigan State, and
received fellowships from the Hoover Institution, the Ford Foundation, and the
Guggenheim Foundation.
Professor Meyer joined the faculty at the University of Michigan in 1966 as a
professor of political science. He has served as director of the Center for Russian and
East European Studies, and as director of the Honors Program and member of the
executive committee of the Department of Political Science.
Known for his many publications on Marxism, Leninism, and communism, and
more recently for his work in the areas of feminist and socialist thought, Professor
Meyer has written six books and some sixty-five articles for scholarly, student, and
general audiences. Also recognized as a provocative and stimulating teacher,
Professor Meyer received the Amoco Good Teaching Award in 1977 and the Sinclair
Award for freshman-sophomore counselling in 1979. The lines of students waiting
outside his office to speak with him are legendary.
The Regents now salute this distinguished political scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Alfred G. Meyer Professor Emeritus of Political Science.
Harriet C. Mills, professor of Chinese language and literature, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 1990, after a most interesting and productive career as
a teacher and scholar.
Born in Tokyo, Japan, of American missionary parents, Professor Mills attended


-269 -



June Meeting, 1990


elementary and secondary school in China. She pursued undergraduate studies at
Wellesley College, where she received her B.A. degree in 1941. She then entered the
graduate program at Columbia University, where she received her M.A. degree in
1946 and her Ph.D. degree in Chinese in 1963. Recently, Professor Mills completed a
second M.A. degree in linguistics at the University of Michigan.
Professor Mills was appointed lecturer in Chinese at Columbia University in
1959, and was promoted to the rank of assistant professor of Chinese in 1960. She was
recruited in 1966 to the University of Michigan as associate professor of Chinese, and
was promoted to professor of Chinese language and literature in 1974.
Professor Mills contributed to the strength and vitality of both instructional and
research programs in Chinese language and literature in the Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures (known as the Department of Far Eastern Languages and
Literatures from 1948-86), and was also an active associate of the Center for Chinese
Studies. She specialized in modern Chinese literature (especially the life and work of
China's most prominent literary reformer, Lu Xun), literary reform policies, and the
modern political woodblock print. Professor Mills authored one of the nation's most
prominent Chinese language textbooks, and has had a major impact on Chinese
language pedagogy. Her presence since the early years of Chinese studies at the
Umversity of Michigan has won the University recognition as one of the best two or
three places in the United States for Chinese studies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar for her long and dedicated
service by naming Harriet C. Mills Professor Emeritus of Chinese Language and
Literature.
Robert E. Moyers, D.D.S., professor of dentistry and fellow in the Center for
Human Growth and Development, will retire from active faculty status on June 30,
1990, after a most productive career as a teacher, researcher, and clinician.
Dr. Moyers received his B.S. and D.D.S. degrees in 1942 from the State
University of Iowa. He completed his M.S. degree in orthodontics in 1947 and his
Ph.D. degree in physiology in 1949, at the same institution.
From 1949-53, Dr. Moyers served as professor and head of the Department of
Orthodontics at the University of Toronto. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan in 1953 as professor of dentistry and chair of the Department of
Orthodontics. In 1964, Dr. Moyers became the founding director of the Center for
Human Growth and Development, an interdisciplinary research unit with faculty from
several schools and colleges within the University. He served as director of the center
until 1980. During Dr. Moyers' tenure as director, the center became prominent, not
only on our campus but nationally and internationally as well, as a leader in
interdisciplinary research on child growth and development.
Dr. Moyers is a man of great energy and breadth. He is the most highly
decorated dental officer in the history of the United States Army, having served
behind enemy lines in World War II. His research on the neuromuscular physiology of
the face is classic; his text, Handbook of Orthodontics, is the most widely used in the
field; and he has received numerous honorary degrees. In addition, over 35 of the
individuals he has trained have served as department chairs throughout the world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Robert E. Moyers Professor Emeritus of Dentistry and Fellow
Emeritus of the Center for Human Growth and Development.
Albert J. Silverman, M.D., professor of psychiatry, retired from active faculty
status on March 31, 1990, after a most productive career as a teacher, clinician,
researcher, and administrator.


-270 -



June Meeting, 1990


A native of Montreal, Dr. Silverman received his B.S. and M.D. degrees at
McGill University in 1947 and 1949, respectively. He served his internship at Jewish
General Hospital in Montreal and completed his psychiatric residency at the
University of Colorado Medical Center. In 1964, he graduated from the Washington
Psychoanalytic Institute.
After serving as a senior physician at the Colorado Psychopathic Hospital, Dr.
Silverman joined the faculty of Duke University Medical School in 1953 as assistant
professor of psychiatry. He was promoted to associate professor in 1957, and in 1962,
he was appointed head of the Division of Human Behavior. Dr. Silverman became an
internationally recognized expert in brain asymmetry and perceptual responses in
field-dependent and field-independent subjects. He subsequently linked these
observations to psychophysiological differences and response to cardiovascular
stressors.
From 1963-70, Dr. Silverman served on the faculty of Rutgers Medical School as
professor and chair of the Department of Psychiatry. He came to the University of
Michigan in 1970 as professor and chair of the Department of Psychiatry. He served
as chair until 1981 and as professor of psychiatry until 1990. During his tenure as
chair, Dr. Silverman coordinated the recruitment of an internationally recognized
group of investigators in psychobiology, neuroendocrinology, and neuropeptidology,
and he launched an educational program in the training of clinical research fellows.
Dr. Silverman's achievements as a clinician, administrator, teacher, and
researcher have been nationally recognized. He is the author of over sixty
publications and eight book chapters. He has served as a member of numerous state
and national committees, as a member of the Behavioral Sciences Section of the
National Board of Examiners, and as an officer of prominent professional associations,
including a term as president of the American Psychosomatic Society. He is a fellow
of the American Psychiatric Association, the American Association for Advancement
of Science, American Academy of Psychoanalysis, American College of Psychiatrists
and the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology.
Dr. Silverman has served on vital departmental and hospital committees and has
been influential in public policy affairs affecting psychiatry at local, state, and national
levels. He has served the department in an extremely dedicated fashion and has been
an inspiration for many clinicians now committed to the study and practice of
psychiatry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for his
dedicated service by naming Albert J. Silverman Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry.
Billy A. Smith, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry, will retire from active
faculty status on June 30, 1990, after a distinguished career at the School of Dentistry.
Born in Burt, Michigan, on September 6, 1924, Dr. Smith served as a sergeant in
the United States Army in the European theater of operation from 1943-46. After
receiving an associate's degree from Flint Junior College in 1948, he entered the
University of Michigan School of Dentistry, where he earned his D.D.S. degree in
1952. He was in private practice in general dentistry from 1952-61, first in Detroit,
and then in Montrose, Michigan. From 1961-80, he maintained a private practice in
the specialty of periodontics in Saginaw.
In 1963, Dr. Smith received his M.S. degree in periodontics from the University
of Michigan School of Dentistry and joined the faculty as a part-time clinical
instructor. He was named clinical assistant professor in the Department of
Periodontics in 1970. From 1970-74, he also served as a lecturer in the Delta College
School of Dental Assisting in Saginaw. Dr. Smith left the University in 1977 to devote
full time to his periodontics practice. He returned to teaching full time in 1982 as


-271 -



June Meeting, 1990


associate professor of periodontics. From 1987-89, he also served as interim director
of the periodontics division.
Dr. Smith has published a number of articles, papers, and abstracts on such
topics as hypersensitivity of root surfaces, desensitizing dentifrices, and the effect of
citric acid and fibronectin on periodontitis and healing. He has also lectured widely
about periodontal therapy at professional meetings throughout Michigan and the
United States. Most recently, he served as a visiting professor at the University of
Bern in Switzerland.
Among Dr. Smith's numerous professional affiliations are memberships in
Sigma Xi and Omicron Kappa Upsilon honor societies and in the International
Federation of Dentistry, International Association for Dental Research, International
College of Dentists, American Academy of Periodontology, Midwest Society of
Periodontists, Michigan Society of Periodontics, oand the American and Michigan
Dental Associations. Dr. Smith has also served on a number of committees within the
School of Dentistry, including the executive committee and committees on budget
priorities, admissions, graduate studies, and infection control.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Billy A. Smith Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Peter A. S. Smith, professor of chemistry, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1990, after a career of more than 40 years of teaching, research, and service to
the scientific and academic communities.
Born in Erskine Hill (London), Professor Smith emigrated to the United States
some three years later. After receiving his B.S. degree in chemistry from the
University of California at Berkeley in 1941, he came to the University of Michigan,
where he worked with Professor Werner Bachmann on the penicillin project of the
war-time Office of Scientific Research & Development and received his Ph.D. degree
in 1944. Professor Smith continued with the OSRD work until 1945 when, at the end
of the war, he became an instructor in the chemistry department at the University of
Michigan. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1948, associate professor in
1953, and professor in 1959.
Professor Smith and his research group have been intimately involved in the
synthetic, mechanistic, and investigative chemistry of organic nitrogen compounds,
especially organic azides and the ways that these materials can be used in the synthesis
of heterocyclic materials. There has been an intense effort in his research to relate
this knowledge to features common to mechanistic organic chemistry, to medicinal
chemistry, pesticide chemistry, explosives and propellants, and structures of
importance to environmental concerns.
A dedicated teacher, advisor, and investigator of the chemistry of organic
nitrogen containing compounds, Professor Smith has served as book review editor for
the Journal of the American Chemical Society since 1971 and chair of the commission
on nomenclature for the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry since
1988. He is the author of the two-volume work, Open-Chain Organic Nitrogen
Compounds, published in 1965-66, which holds an honored and respected position in
the literature of the chemistry of nitrogen. A man of considerable versatility and
intellectual breadth, Professor Smith is also the author of The Travelling Post Office of
Egypt, published in 1986.
Throughout his career, Professor Smith has served as a valued colleague,
untiring and talented teacher, understanding associate, dedicated chemical researcher
and scientist, and a respected and sincere friend and associate to all scientists and the
University community.


-272 -



June Meeting, 1990


The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Peter A. S.
Smith Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
Egons Tons, professor of civil engineering, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1990.
Born in Latvia, Professor Tons attended Baltic University in Hamburg,
Germany, from 1948-49. He then came to the United States, where he received his
B.S. degree from Antioch College in 1953, his M.S. degree from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 1954, and his Ph.D. degree from Purdue University in 1969.
Professor Tons worked as a laboratory engineer at the National Crushed Stone
Association from 1952-53. He then went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
where he was a research engineer with the transportation laboratory from 1954-59 and
an assistant professor from 1959-64. He joined the faculty of Purdue University in
1964 as an instructor. Professor Tons' career at the University of Michigan began in
1969, when he was appointed lecturer in the Department of Civil Engineering. He
was appointed associate professor later that year and was promoted to professor in
1975.
Professor Tons' research focused on bituminous material and mixes, with
particular emphasis on sulphur in bituminous concrete, fly ash in pavements, and
polymers for sealants and as binders for aggregates. His theoretical approach to joint
seal design changed field practices in this area. A major contributor to layered
pavement design, Professor Tons has made substantial contributions to the field of
highway pavements and has authored numerous professional papers and technical
reports.
Every five years, the University of Michigan hosts the International Conference
on the Structural Design of Asphalt Pavements. Professor Tons has played a
leadership role in each of the last four events, including editing the proceedings. For
several years, Professor Tons has also served as the University of Michigan
representative and a member of the program committee for the Michigan County
Engineers Workshop. Professor Tons also worked closely with the materials
laboratory of the Michigan State Highway Department prior to its relocation to
Lansing in 1977.
The Regents now salute this dedicated faculty member for his distinguished
service by naming Egons Tons Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering.
Nathan T. Whitman, professor of history of art, retired from active faculty status
on May 31, 1990.
Professor Whitman received his A.B. degree, summa cum laude, from Bowdoin
College in 1946, his A.M. degree in fine arts from Harvard University in 1947, and his
Ph.D. degree, "with great distinction," from Harvard in 1955. He came to the
University of Michigan as a predoctoral instructor in 1950. He was promoted to
instructor in 1952, assistant professor in 1956, associate professor in 1962, and
professor in 1968.
In his 40 years at the University of Michigan, Professor Whitman served with
distinction in a variety of capacities within the department, including chair (1979-82),
director of graduate studies (1968-71), MA advisor (1964-68), acting MA advisor (Fall
1983 and 1986-87), director of the honors program (1955-62), director of the program
for departmental undergraduate majors (1972-78), and departmental bibliographer
(1959-64 and 1983-86). Within the University, he served as a member of the fine arts
research committee of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies from
1965-68, and chaired the Rackham committee to review the doctoral program in the
School of Architecture and Urban Planning in 1987.


-273 -



June Meeting, 1990


A specialist in the architecture of Renaissance and baroque Italy and on the art
and architecture of Renaissance and baroque France, Professor Whitman is the author
of numerous articles and a book, The Drawings of Raymond Lafarge. In 1983, he
co-curated an exhibition on papal medals, supported by a grant from the National
Endowment for the Arts, which was shown at the University of Michigan Museum of
Art, Mount Holyoke College, and the University of Chicago. This exhibition was
accompanied by a full scholarly catalogue.
A master teacher at every level, from introductory survey courses to graduate
seminars, and a charismatic mentor for doctoral candidates, Professor Whitman has
established a memorable reputation as one who requires and inspires the highest
degree of excellence from his students. At a symposium held in his honor during the
1990 winter term, returning and current students alike spoke with delight and awe
about the brilliance of his scholarly insights, the ways in which he fully engaged their
deepest intellectual response, and the wry sense of humor which flavored his discourse
and thinking.
To every activity, Professor Whitman has brought his wisdom, his integrity, and
his delight in the world of ideas. His publications, teaching, and distinguished service
to the University of Michigan and to the field of history of art form a legacy which will,
for many decades to come, enrich this institution which he has served with such
devotion.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and teacher for his dedicated
service by naming Nathan T. Whitman Professor Emeritus of History of Art.
William W. Willmarth, professor of aerospace engineering, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1990, after an outstanding career as a teacher and
researcher.
Professor Willmarth earned his B.S.M.E. degree in 1949 from Purdue University
and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in aeronautical engineering in 1950 and 1954,
respectively, from the California Institute of Technology. From 1943-46, he served as
a pilot instructor and B-29 flight engineer in the United States Army Air Force. After
receiving his degrees at Caltech, he remained there until 1958, first as a research
fellow and then as a senior research fellow. During this time, he also consulted at the
Rand Corporation and the Aerophysics Development Corporation. Professor
Willmarth came to the University of Michigan in 1958 as an associate professor; he
was promoted to professor in 1961.
An excellent teacher of both undergraduate and graduate students, Professor
Willmarth achieved his greatest stature as a researcher. He conducted what is now
considered a classic study of pressure fluctuations underneath turbulent boundary
layers, which was the starting point in a long series of contributions to the
understanding of turbulent wall-bounded shear flows. He has also carried out
important studies in bluff-body aerodynamics and in the behavior of turbulence near a
free surface. Professor Willmarth's contributions are characterized by carefully
planned experiments using the more advanced instrumentation and data acquisition
techniques, which is remarkable considering that his career extends from the days of
vacuum tube instrumentation to today's digital electronics, laser diagnostics, and
computer-based data processing. He has been a major contributor in the application
of these advanced instrumentation techniques to the development of surface pressure
instrumentation, hot wire anemometry, conditional sampling techniques, and laser
doppler velocimetry.
Internationally recognized for his contributions to the study of turbulent wallbounded shear flows, Professor Willmarth was honored in 1988 when over 50
colleagues from around the world came to Ann Arbor to participate in a workshop on


-274 -



June Meeting, 1990


"New Directions in Research on Wall Turbulence." His work in fluid dynamics was
recognized beyond the specialized study of turbulent boundary layers when in 1989 he
received the American Physical Society Prize in Fluid Dynamics. The citation reads:
"For his many and enduring contributions to our knowledge of bounded turbulent
flow, through ingeniously devised and meticulously executed and perceptively
interpreted experiments; for the development of novel instrumentation and
measurement techniques that have enabled generations of his students and colleagues
to participate fruitfully in this activity; and for the stimulation and inspiration provided
to experimentalists and theoreticians alike in development of our knowledge of
turbulent structures."
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and researcher by naming
William W. Willmarth Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering.
Memorials
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following Memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
May 23, 1990, of Deborah Candace Brown, associate professor of art history at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.
A specialist in Asian art, Professor Brown joined the University of MichiganDearborn in 1974 after earning degrees in history of art and South Asian history at the
University of Michigan. Her courses in Far Eastern art, South Asian art, and ancient
Oriental art offered highly contextualized introductions to art at a time when much
instruction was still highly formalist in approach. She took special pains to enlarge her
students' eurocentric views well before the late 1980s brought global perspectives into
vogue by incorporating substantial amounts of cultural history in her classes.
Professor Brown's students were exposed to unexpected delights: the Japanese
meals she prepared for her classes in Japanese art, the bits of jade she shared from her
own collection, slides collected from her extensive travels. In a recent course on
Chinese painting, she brought in a skilled painter as a guest and students were invited
to share in the experience of painting. Such gestures were not fillers; they enhanced
the immediacy and authority of her lectures and enriched the cultural foundations she
was so intent on establishing in her courses.
Professor Brown was a mainstay of the art history program. She played a vital
role in the recruiting of new faculty, in the refinement of the art history concentration,
in the collegial and intellectual life of the department, and in important administrative
activities on behalf of her discipline. From 1981-85, Professor Brown edited the
prestigious journal Ars Orientalis, published by the Freer Gallery of the Smithsonian
Institution and the University of Michigan Department of History of Art. Professor
Brown was known as a devoted and discerning editor.
Friends and colleagues of this gifted teacher and gracious human being will
remember her not only for her professional accomplishments but also for her
irreverent wit, her selflessness, her fiercely high standards, and her striking creativity.
A much loved teacher and colleague, she will be sorely missed.
Degrees
Regent Smith moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved confirmation of the degrees conferred at the May, 1990 Commencement
exercises.


-275 -



June Meeting, 1990


Commencement. President Duderstadt observed that there had been 17
separate commencement exercises this year, at which about 45,000 people had
participated, and that the response on the part of parents and students to the
decentralized ceremonies had been almost uniformly favorable.
Authorization for Expenditures in 1990-91
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved temporary actions for expenditures in 1990-91 at levels
consistent with expenditures in effect for 1989-90. This action was necessary because
the legislature would not have approved the University's 1990-91 appropriation prior
to the beginning of the University's fiscal year on July 1, 1990.
State Auditor General Report and Responses - UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Wilson reported that the Dearborn campus has identified the area of
computer services, about which recommendations have been made in the audit, as a
high priority for major planning, policy studying, resource allocation, and possibly,
management reorganization on the campus.
Regent Roach moved acceptance of the report and approval of the responses;
Regent Power seconded the motion. Vice President Womack and University Auditor
Carl Smith responded to questions from the Regents about several specific issues
raised in the audit. Following some discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was
approved unanimously.
Public Safety
Pursuant to the discussion that had occurred the previous day, Regent Varner
moved that the Regents approve deputizing additional employees within the
University's Department of Public Safety, the establishment of a Parking Violations
Bureau, and the amendments to the "Ordinance to Regulate Parking, Traffic, and
Littering and Vehicular Noise on Property of the Regents of the University of
Michigan", as detailed in the Regents Communication.
Regent Baker asked Regent Varner if she would amend her motion to add the
following statement: "The action item speaks narrowly to the issues stated herein and
does not constitute an endorsement of the findings or recommendations of the Report
on Campus Safety and Security." Regent Varner accepted the amendment, and
Regent Brown seconded the motion.
Regent Roach said that Regent Baker's statement implies that the Regents are
rejecting the Report on Campus Safety and Security, and that this was not true.
President Duderstadt noted that the action item constitutes a recommendation from
the executive officers, and should be considered separately from the report. Regent
Brown agreed, noting that he expected that the Regents would be asked to approve
other measures related to a campus safety program in the future, and that this action
item does not really speak to the report.
In view of the request from city officials that action on this issue be tabled, and
in view of some of the remarks made at Public Comments, and also in deference to
Regent Nielsen's request, Regent Smith moved to table the item. There being no


-276 -



June Meeting, 1990


second to the motion, the item remained on the table.
Regent Brown said that he expects University and city officials to continue their
discussions, because the responsibility for safety on campus and in the area
surrounding the campus must be shared between the University and various city,
county, and state entities. He emphasized that the University of Michigan is
dependent on Ann Arbor's being a vital, healthy city, and thus the two entities have to
work in a partnership to help solve the economic, business, and environmental
problems faced by the city.
President Duderstadt observed that over the years, the University and the city
have faced problems, and that at the present time, the University faces challenges with
safety and the city is facing challenges with the downtown area and budgetary matters.
The key, he said, is for the University and for the community to work together. He
reiterated that the steps the administration is recommending are important for
addressing safety concerns and are consistent with the steps that have been taken by
virtually every other major university. But he emphasized that the University has no
intention of undercutting the city of Ann Arbor, particularly during a time of very
serious financial pressure. The president pledged that the University would continue
to work with the city of Ann Arbor in good faith to address a broader array of
concerns involving campus safety, the financial stability of the city, and the quality of
life in the downtown area.
Regent Smith said that she was truly disappointed that the Board had chosen to
ignore requests from the city and a regent to defer this issue, and to ignore the wishes
of students who were away from campus for the summer. She described the proposed
action as dictatorial, and expressed her opinion that the students, the city, and the
entire University deserve better, and that they all would suffer as a result of this action
item.
Regent Power stated that he hoped that this episode would serve as a stimulus
for the various constituencies in Ann Arbor to come together to deal in a serious,
substantive, far-reaching, and lasting manner with the problems having to do with
maintaining and upgrading life in Ann Arbor and particularly in the downtown.
Regent Baker reiterated his comments from the previous day that the Ann Arbor
News is a third entity that should be included in efforts to deal with the campus and
community problems. He said that the newspaper frequently seems to perceive the
University Incorrectly, and that the newspaper should be sensitive to the way that
cooperation evolves, which involves working together and not being dogmatic critics of
one another.
Regent Varner spoke on behalf of the motion, noting that despite the Board's
desire to cooperate with the city, there is a long history of things not working out well
with respect to the police service the city has provided the University. She observed
that the Board members have an obligation to position themselves to be able to
provide better protection, safety and security on campus.
Regent Roach pointed out that authorizing deputization of campus officers does
not imply that the University will stop using Ann Arbor police officers. There is a
difference in perception between city officials, who believe the services being provided
the University are far in excess of what the University is paying for, and University


-277 -



June Meeting, 1990


officials, who believe that the services being provided to the campus are inadequate.
Thus, the University's view is that it must be prepared to take on that obligation itself,
while still engaging in discussions with the city.
Regent Roach noted that the creation of a University parking violations bureau
will not be done immediately, but will be phased in. He expressed some reservations
about the University's undertaking this activity, because of the fact that people react
very strongly to receiving parking tickets.
Regarding student comments about this issue, Regent Roach said that everyone
in the university community has an interest in seeing the campus be as free and as safe
as possible. He noted that the sworn officers will be supervised by a committee
consisting of all segments of the institution, and he does not believe that the results
will be more oppressive than currently is the case.
Regent Power observed that as a Regent, he trusts that the people who are
responsible for training and supervising the sworn campus personnel will be sensitive
to the fears that have been expressed by some members of the campus community
about how they will function. He pointed out that the issue of respect for openness of
discussion and of expression is paramount.
President Duderstadt observed that the executive officers share this philosophy,
and that many of the great liberal institutions across the country have been able to
successfully achieve the objective of enhancing campus safety while protecting
freedom of speech.
Regent Smith commented that the perception that freedom of speech will be
harmed may not only be a perception. She believes that there are still many
unanswered questions, and that prior to taking any action, the University should meet
with the city and try to work something out. She also pointed out that the students'
desires are not being taken into account.
Regent Power responded that it is the job of the Board to provide policy
direction and a sense of nuance for the people charged with carrying out the Board's
actions. He observed that while doing anything entails risk, doing nothing ensures
disaster.
The President and Regent Brown pointed out that University officials fully
intend to meet with city officials to work out the details involving implementation of
the security and the parking actions.
There being no further discussion, the President called for the vote on Regent
Varner's motion that had been amended by Regent Baker. Regent Roach moved to
delete Regent Baker's amendment; there was no second. The vote was then taken on
the Varner/Baker motion and it was approved, with Regents Baker, Brown, Power,
Roach, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Smith opposed.
Supplemental Information to Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics for the Year Ended June 30, 1989
The Regents received supplemental information to the certified audited
financial report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University


-278 -



June Meeting, 1990


of Michigan for the year ended June 30, 1989.
Amendments to University Retirement Plan
Vice President Womack reported that a committee had been appointed in
December, 1989 to provide recommendations about whether the University should
approve changes that the College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF) has made to
provide its participants with more flexibility. Pursuant to that committee's
recommendations, and to the recommendations of the Committee on the Economic
Status of the Faculty (CESF) and the Senate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs (SACUA), he was recommending that the CREF option of lump sum cash-out
at retirement be limited to 50% of the accumulation. He noted this decision was
influenced by the fact that the University views participation in TIAA and CREF as a
retirement vehicle, and not a cash accumulation vehicle, but that the limitation could
be reconsidered in the future after there has been some experience with the limited
cash-out.
Following some discussion, Regent Roach moved, and Regent Waters seconded,
approval of changes in the retirement plan to permit participants to transfer past and
future CREF accumulations to other approved funds and to permit participants to
elect to receive up to 50 percent of CREF accumulations or those transferred to other
approved funds as a lump sum at retirement from the University or, for former
University staff members, at age 55. The motion was approved unanimously.
Great Lakes Gas Transmission Company Natural Gas Pipeline
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the right-of-way grants submitted by Great Lakes Gas
Transmission Company, with the financial arrangements to be as described in the
Regents Communication.
State Building Authority Financing of the Taubman Medical Library and the
Dearborn Campus Library
Regent Roach moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, the following resolutions requesting and approving the conveyance of the
Dearborn Campus Library and the Taubman Medical Library.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE MEDICAL CENTER LIBRARY
AND LEARNING RESOURCES CENTER
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan requesting and approving the
conveyance of property, and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body corporate created
under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own
improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and
facilities and sites therefor for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") has been created and is
maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and


-279 -



June Meeting, 1990


WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Medical Center Library and Learning
Resources Center and the site upon which it was constructed (the Medical Center Library and the
Learning Resources Center and the site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the
Facilities to the University and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated April 1, 1979
(the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title to the Facilities to
the University upon request by the University after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as
defined in the Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid in
full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for consideration of one $1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the
operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by the Lease as
conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the Authority to the University have
occurred.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
THAT:
1. The University hereby requests that the Authority convey title to the Facilities by Quitclaim
Deed to the University.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00) Dollar and the
assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and
maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is
approved and the President and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are authorized and directed to
execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such form as may be requested by the Authority
and approved by counsel for the University.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this resolution are, to the
extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE LIBRARY - DEARBORN CAMPUS
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan requesting and approving the
conveyance of property, and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body corporate created
under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own
improve, enlarge, operate mortgage and maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and
facilities and sites therefor for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") has been created and is
maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Library - Dearborn Campus and the site
upon which it was constructed (the Library - Dearborn Campus and the site together are the "Facilities")
and the Authority leased the Facilities to the University and the State of Michigan (the "State" pursuant to
a lease dated April 1, 1979 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title to the Facilities to
the University upon request by the University after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as
defined in the Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid in
full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided min the Lease for consideration of one $1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities or the
operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by the Lease as
conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the Authority to the University have
occurred.


-280 -



June Meeting, 1990


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
1. The University hereby requests that the Authority convey title to the Facilities by Quitclaim
Deed to the University.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00) Dollar and the
assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and
maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is
approved and the President and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are authorized and directed to
execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such form as may e requested by the Authority
and approved by counsel for the University.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this resolution are, to the
extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption e  ate.
Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building
When construction was begun on the Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service
Building, the scope of the project had to be reduced from $12,000,000 to $10,500,000,
because sufficient funding had not been identified at that time to fund the originally
authorized budget. Vice President Womack informed the Regents that because the
Athletic Department had been successful in raising the additional funds necessary to
add $1.5 million, he had approved adding the deferred items to bring the project to the
originally authorized amount of $12,000,000.
University of Michigan-Flint Master Plan Study
Chancellor Jones reported that the firm of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy had been
commissioned to evaluate the desirability of UM-Flint's acquisition of the Water
Street Pavilion and Ice Rink, including two floors of parking spaces in the attached
parking deck, and how this acquisition would impact the campus' Master Plan.
Mr. Bill McGibbon, of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy, gave an illustrated
presentation that showed in detail how modifying the master plan would affect the
current campus configuration.
Regent Baker pointed out that if the University only acquires the pavilion and
ice rink, without the surrounding structures, it would be detrimental to the Master
Plan; the pavilion building would be isolated from the main campus by the parking
structure, the state office building, and Harrison Street. He expressed the hope that
an understanding might be reached between city and University officials that the
University also eventually acquire the state office building, the parking structure, the
land south of the structure now being used for a surface parking lot, and the land on
which the Pavilion sits going all the way to the river. There was further discussion
about the benefits of accepting the pavilion and the parking spaces, with Chancellor
Jones pointing out that the Flint community is very supportive of the possibility of
additional cooperation between the city and the University.
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Program for Water Street Pavilion
Following the discussion of the UM-Flint Master Plan Study, Chancellor Jones
informed the Regents of the intended programmatic uses for the Water Street


-281 -



June Meeting, 1990


Pavilion space. He noted that acquisition of this space would free up instructional
space in the Classroom Office Building that is currently being used for other purposes.
Edwin S. George Reserve - Fence Replacement
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved completion of the last two phases of fence replacement in the
Edwin S. George Reserve. This reserve is located in northern Washtenaw County.
Fransois-Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering - Design Revisions
Vice President Womack informed the Regents of specific design revisions that
have been made in the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering.
These will be described in greater detail at the July meeting.
Plymouth Road Construction Project
Vice President Womack called on Mr. Frederick Mayer, University Planner, to
explain how the city's Plymouth Road construction project will affect the University's
North Campus area. Mr. Mayer displayed diagrams indicating the various
modifications that will be made to improve traffic flow and safety and decrease
congestion, and responded to questions from the Regents.
Legal Research Building
Mr. Mayer then displayed drawings of how the facade on the Legal Research
Building would be enhanced by being painted in a color that would coordinate with
the existing stonework.
Medical Science I Renovation
Vice President Womack described a project for renovating the C-Wing and the
D-Wing of the Medical Science I Building (details are contained in the Action
Request). On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the project as described.
University of Michigan Hospitals Child Care Center
Vice President Womack called on Mr. Douglas Hanna to present the schematic
design for the University of Michigan Hospitals Child Care Center. Mr. Hanna
described the proposed placement of the facility on the site and displayed
architectural drawings that describe the layout of the building's interior space.
In response to a comment from Mr. Hanna describing several of the rooms as
being intended for use by children in kindergarten, Regent Baker pointed out that the
Regents' original approval of the Child Care Center did not include the idea of there
being a kindergarten. Regent Brown agreed, and following some discussion, there
being nobody present who was knowledgeable about the planned programmatic
aspects of the building, it was decided to table the matter until the July meeting.


-282 -



June Meeting, 1990


Maternal and Child Health Center
Regent Power noted that no decision had yet been reached about whether to
renovate or replace Women's Hospital within the Maternal and Child Health Center.
He asked that the Regents receive a report detailing all of the options related to this
project, so that a decision can be made in a timely fashion.
Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and HSE, Inc.
This is a proposal whereby HSE, Inc., a small business which has received SBIR
Phase I funding, desires to subcontract a portion of this grant to support a project at
the University, and also to purchase time to use the Solid State Electronics
Laboratory. The proposed subcontract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute, as the owners, officers, and employees of HSE are also employees of
the University of Michigan.
Regent Roach raised the question of the necessity of having this work
performed by a small business rather than within the University. There followed a
discussion about the nature of technology transfer and "spin-off' businesses that
produce commercial products, and the value of the SBIR as a mechanism for
accomplishing this, as opposed to having the University directly involved in product
development. In response to a request from Regent Baker, the President said the
Regents would have an opportunity to examine this question in the near future.
Regent Power then moved, seconded by Regent Roach, that the Regents
approve the proposed subcontract between the University and HSE, Inc. and the
participation of the University employees involved in the project. The motion was
approved unanimously. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the agreement will be HSE, Inc. and the Regents of the
University of Michigan. Dr. George I. Haddad will sign the contract
as president of HSE, Inc.
2. The proposed subcontract is a standard University research contract.
There are no restrictions on publication or openness of the research.
The University portion of the project involves preparation of suitable
high temperature superconductors by spray pyrolysis and laser
ablation in the Chemistry Department. The Solid State Lab will be
used for microelectronic processing. The current-voltage
characteristics of the Company's devices will be measured as a
function of temperature to establish the effect of film morphology.
The subcontract in the Chemistry Department for $16,300 will cover
50% of a graduate student's salary and related fringe benefits over a
six month period. Dr. Francis will supervise the student and act as
project director. Dr. Francis will be reimbursed for one half of one
summer month salaries plus related fringe benefits.
HSE, Inc. will purchase approximately 500 hours of time for use of
the Solid State Electronics Lab at the approved outside user rate for
this facility ($7,500). Drs. Haddad, McCleer, and Schewchun will be


-283 -



June Meeting, 1990


reimbursed through the company but not through the University for
time spent on the project.
3. The total grant to HSE, Inc. is $50,000. Approximately $16,550 of this
will be paid as salary to Drs. Haddad, McCleer, and Shewchun as
employees of the company. Haddad and McCleer are the sole owners
of HSE, Inc.
Lifetime Membership for Dr. Alfred L. Nuttall in Sigma Xi Scientific Research
Society
This item was withdrawn from the agenda.
Institutional Membership in the West African Research Association (WARA);
Membership in the University Cultural Association
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved memberships in the West African Research Association
(WARA) and in the University Cultural Association.
Membership for the Museum of Art in the American Arts Alliance
Regent Baker quoted the following sentence from the Regents Communication:
"Membership in the Alliance will allow the University of Michigan Museum of Art to
join with virtually every other museum and arts organization in the country in a united
and coherent effort to inform our nation's leaders of the importance of the arts in our
society." He noted that there is currently a very heated argument about art and
pornography and what it is and what it is not, and asked if this would in any way
become part of that argument, and whether the name of the University would become
associated with a stand one way or another in that argument.
Provost Vest said that he would contact William Hennessey, Director of the
Museum of Art, to determine the answer to Regent Baker's question. He noted that
there had been a major deterioration in national funding of the arts, and that he
understood that to be the basic objective of this membership.
Regent Baker asked to delay consideration of the matter until his question had
been answered. Regent Power stated that he would object to tabling the matter, and
moved its approval. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Baker asked that
the information he had requested be presented before the vote. Regent Power stated
that he was prepared to delay action on the item in accordance with the custom of the
board when a Regent requests additional information. He also expressed concern that
discussing public funding of the arts has a chilling effect, not only on how the money is
spent, but on procedural, timing, and administrative aspects of arts funding. He cited
delaying action on this request as an example of this chilling effect.
The President said that the item would be reconsidered the following month.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.


-284 -



June Meeting, 1990


Honorary Degrees
Regent Roach moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, several recommendations for candidates for honorary degrees. Regent
Baker was not present when the vote was taken.
Creation of the "Regents' Award for Distinguished Public Service"
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the creation of the "Regents' Award for Distinguished Public
Service", to be awarded to University faculty members as outlined in the Regents
Communication.
Death of Stephen Spurr
President Duderstadt announced the death on June 19, 1990 of Stephen Spurr,
former dean of the School of Natural Resources and of the Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, former president of the University of Texas at Austin, and recipient
in of an honorary degree from the University of Michigan in 1988.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month
of May, 1990 totalled $1,070.98. The next meeting will be held on July 19 and 20,
1990.
Ricard L. Kenne   Secr


-285 -


