
JULY MEETING, 1984
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 12, 1984
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, Vamer, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and
Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Cosovich, Acting Vice President Sussman
and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Vice President
Johnson was absent and Associate Vice President Easthope attend the meeting for him.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and announced that the
1984-85 budget which had been scheduled for discussion at this time would
be postponed until the afternoon session. In its place the new telecommunications system would be presented for discussion in order to bring the
Regents up-to-date on the process the University has followed in the development of the proposal and the evaluation procedures. A recommendation
will be placed before the Regents at a special meeting later in the month.
Telecommunications System
Vice President Brinkerhoff then indicated that Mr. Paul Brandon, of
Brandon Interscience, Inc., and Mr. Samuel Plice, the University's Director
of Telecommunications and Administrative Systems, would speak to the
process in which they were involved during the past few months and would
respond to questions.
Mr. Brandon showed slides which indicated the chronology of actions
which would lead to the final recommendation. The plan, consisting of
26,000 telephones, primarily addressed voice and data capabilities, but
could accommodate radio programming and video circuits as the need
arises.
In discussing the proposal process, Mr. Brandon stated that the preliminary information package had been issued to all vendors who had expressed
an interest in the project. They were invited to attend a meeting to discuss
the project. A second meeting was scheduled in order to respond to questions to make certain that both the vendors and the suppliers understood the
magnitude and nature of the project and the University's intent. This was
followed by the request for proposal and a conference at which the vendors
received more detailed data. Subsequently, every vendor was given the
opportunity to meet with the University team individually for further discussion and clarification.
The University team visited approximately ten vendors at their locations
in order to brief the officials of each company of the extent of the project,
and what the University hoped to achieve from the new system.
Following receipt of eight proposals, the University's telecommunications and purchasing groups initiated meetings with the vendors to obtain
more detailed information for evaluation purposes. From this information, a
preliminary proposal evaluation was undertaken to determine the vendors
1




2


JULY MEETING, 1984


who would provide the most opportunity for the University. Based upon
those evaluations, a group representing various interests of the University
and the Hospital visited the vendor sites and the manufacturing and research
locations. Customer sites were also visited to learn of their experiences with
installed equipment. Further meetings were held with those vendors who had
the most viable proposals to clarify the needs and concerns of the University.
At the present time there is interaction with the final three vendors who
have submitted the most appropriate and advantageous proposals to the
University. These discussions include the future capabilities of the equipment that would be installed that might enhance the communication system.
Mr. Brandon indicated that one of the criteria in the evaluation process
would be the overall cost of the system on a ten-year time frame which
would include operations, maintenance, functional risk as well as the original capital. Financially, it is expected that the University will achieve
essentially the same budget that was presented to the Regents earlier and
would have enhanced capabilities beyond those originally requested.
Final negotiations with the chosen vendors will continue through most of
July, culminating with a final recommendation to the Regents at a special
meeting on July 26, 1984.
In response to a question by Regent Power concerning the ten-year time
frame, Mr. Brandon said the pay-back period would be approximately six
years with another four years of reasonable service before the University
would have to anticipate replacement of the system.
Regent Baker asked several questions with respect to the total cost of the
ten-year period. Would the total system cost include staffing and maintenance over that period of time? What features of the system would be
included in the total cost?
Mr. Brandon indicated the cost analysis for the ten-year period is based
upon minimum service across the entire campus, and would include staffing
and maintenance. If certain users wish other features, these could be added
at a cost to the individual user or department. Advanced service capabilities
would be available to all users if and when needed.
President Shapiro commented that the system would provide the administrative capacity, if the administration chooses to use it, to make individuals
and/or groups of individuals directly responsible for its usage, thereby providing a form of budget control.
Upon Regent Power's request, Mr. Sam Plice explained the involvement
of the University faculty and staff in the planning. He said that a University
task force representing various areas of the University had been appointed in
January 1983. Memoranda, news letters and articles in the RECORD have
been written to inform all University faculty and staff of the new telecommunications system, what the University is attempting to accomplish, and to
be responsive to their questions and concerns during the process. Specific
voice, data, and video task forces were formed later in the process to
involve those people who were particularly responsible for those aspects of
the University communication environment. During the last few months, a
procurement team representing Flint, Dearborn, the Hospital, Purchasing
and Plant Departments, visited various installations to be sure that the




JULY MEETING, 1984


3


vendors would have the capability of establishing a system to satisfy all
areas of the University.
Mr. Plice indicated that there has been enthusiastic acceptance of the
system from various areas of the University. There has been close involvement with the College of Engineering in an attempt to combine the development of its computer aided network with the new telecommunications
system to make the best use of the University's resources. The Computing
Center has been involved in the process from the beginning and is looking
forward to using the plan to connect its particular communication network,
and, of course, there has been a great deal of interaction with the Hospital.
It is expected that there will be more interest in the future in the video
capability which is being used minimally at present by the College of
Engineering. There has been contact also with the School of Business
Administration and the Medical School to enhance their programs.
Regent Dunn asked who would have ownership of the lines when the
system is completed. Mr. Brandon responded that it has been intended from
the beginning that the University would own all equipment, lines, conduits
on campus as well as the coaxial cables that might run off campus.
Regent Baker was concerned about the 60 employees to be hired to
maintain the system. He indicated that this was a critical factor in the
computation of the ongoing cost of the operation.
Mr. Brandon said it would not be an increment of sixty people because
there were approximately 25 to 30 already on board. He agreed that it was
an important factor, but not the most important in the evaluation because of
the magnitude of the dollars. The area in which the revenue and benefits of
the system generate the most impact is in the monthly revenues the University is spending on equipment it currently has.
President Shapiro commented that personnel is an area in which the
administration also is concerned. The impact of the issue could easily be
underestimated; therefore, both the direct and indirect costs will be reviewed
carefully to make certain the University has the capacity to bring quality
people in this area to the University.
Regent Roach remarked that the proposal indicates that the University
will own and operate the telecommunications system. How much confidence
can the University have with respect to the long-term ten-year maintenance
cost? Can the University's telephone company operate as efficiently as, for
instance, Michigan Bell?
Mr. Brandon indicated that the University-owned system would be more
efficient and that can be corroborated by many other private systems of any
reasonable size that are in existence. Projections can be made of the costs
that would be associated with usage, equipment, maintenance and operations
from the historical data of the past ten years that have been separated into
general categories, such as, service versus monthly usage and monthly line
charges. Mr. Brandon said he certainly understood the concerns the Regents
have regarding long-term maintenance and operating costs, and he indicated
that this area would be detailed later on in July.
President Shapiro stated that the Regents and the administration must
have confidence in the concept of the system and understand it before
proceeding with final approval of the project.




4


JULY MEETING, 1984


Inasmuch as there were no further questions, it was suggested that the
meeting be recessed for five minutes.
President Shapiro then indicated that there were a series of very important issues developing with respect to various aspects of the Medical Center
and its operation, including both the Hospital and the Medical School,
which would be presented at this time.
Dr. George Zuidema, Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, noted that there
were two specific items, Wayne County General Hospital and its relationship to the Medical School and the Hospital, and the proposed affiliation
with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, that he wished to present to the
Board. Following these discussions, there would be further comments relating to other issues that face the Medical Center at this time. He then
introduced Dr. Peter Ward, Acting Dean of the Medical School to review
the issues.
Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Dr. Ward stated that, at the present time, there are approximately twelve
Hughes Medical Institutes throughout the United States, including those
located at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Johns Hopkins, Washington University, University of California at San Francisco, and Stanford, which are of
exceedingly high quality. Following a decision by the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute to establish one or two additional institutes, the Medical
School was approached about a year ago by officials of the institute. The
exploratory conversations led to three additional visits. The administration
of the Hughes Institute had decided to select one private university, one
private medical school, and one state related medical school for consideration. The final selection was between the Universities of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Washington and Michigan. One determining factor for selection was
evidence of state commitment to the university. The commitment by the
State of Michigan to commence construction of the replacement hospital was
of major importance in the decision to locate the institute in Ann Arbor. The
emphasis of the institute would be in the area of molecular genetics. The
Hughes Institute in conjunction with the University would start the recruitment process for the first three senior investigators who would be worldclass scientists and would begin to develop a large scientific program.
Dr. Ward remarked that the establishment of the Hughes Medical Institute at the University is an extremely prestigious accomplishment. It is
already beginning to have a positive impact on recruitment efforts at the
Medical School, and there is the long-term potential that the University can
become one of the largest, most eminent, and perhaps pre-eminent, centers
for molecular genetics in the world. There is also the possibility, and for the
Hughes Institute it would be the first time in its history, that the technology
derived from research could be applied directly to the clinical setting. Dr.
Ward said that, in his view, one of the most important aspects is that the
University of Michigan has been chosen to be the recipient of the institute
which indicates that the University's reputation is one of excellence. Dr.
Ward then reviewed some of the organizational details of the institute as
noted in the communication.
In response to a question from Regent Baker concerning an actual




JULY MEETING, 1984


5


commitment, Dean Ward said that there is a tentative understanding of the
concept, subject to approval by the Regents. He believes that the Hughes
Institute would proceed fairly rapidly with formal commitments once approval has been granted.
Regent Varner asked if the research at all of the institutes focused on
molecular genetics. Dean Ward indicated that there were three different
areas of focus: immunology, neurosciences, and molecular genetics. This
would be the first institute in which there would not only be a strong basic
science focus, but also an important clinical investigative focus.
Dr. Ward then addressed several factors, including the institute's strong
commitment to medical student education. The establishment of the institute
at the University of Michigan would make it one of the largest medical
institutes in the country. He also discussed the interaction between the
institute and several departments in the Medical School, and the question of
tenure for the senior investigators.
Regent Nederlander raised the question of the terms of the agreement
and the size and financing arrangements of the facility. It was explained that
there was a commitment by the Hughes people to fund the construction of
the facility and the staff for 40 years. There is a separate item in the
proposed agreement that provides for reimbursement for the University's
total cost of operation, including service, maintenance, and utilities. The
size of the facility is undetermined at the present time because there is some
thought on campus of the possibility of adding a few stories to the building
for use by the University, which, of course, is an internal discussion and
would be the financial reponsibility of the University.
President Shapiro indicated that the establishment of the Hughes Institute
at the University of Michigan is an extraordinary opportunity. The direct
investment is very substantial and the indirect dividends will be of great
benefit to the University. He said that he was very pleased and grateful for
the efforts of those in the Medical School who made it possible.
Regent Baker then moved to authorize the executive officers to proceed
with the completion of the affiliation agreement between The University of
Michigan and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Regent Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Baker commented that this was an extraordinary accomplishment
and offered his congratulations to those involved. He mentioned also the
autonomy of the University and hoped that the negotiators were sensitive to
this fact.
President Shapiro indicated the administration was concerned also with
that issue, and the people at the Hughes Institute were sensitive to it. The
autonomy issue had been discussed with Dr. Donald Frederickson, President
of the Howard Hughes Institute, Dr. Zuidema, and Dr. Ward. Dr. Frederickson
indicated that the Institute did not wish to establish a free-standing institution. They want their investigators to become involved to a certain degree in
teaching or service functions of some kind and they do not want their
research facility to be isolated from the University. There has been some
consideration to the possibility of having some of the floors in the new
facility contiguous to those University departments having research activities
that are closely allied with those of the Institute.




6


JULY MEETING, 1984


President Shapiro called for the vote and the motion was unanimously
adopted.
Wayne County General Hospital
Dr. Ward then informed the Regents on the latest developments with
respect to Wayne County General Hospital. He said that there were serious
concerns about the educational environment at Wayne, and a significant
number of faculty have left the facility. Following extensive discussions
with the executive officers and a detailed analysis, a contingency plan was
effected that would withdraw all third-year medical students from activities
at the facility by the end of July. If conditions do not stabilize and improve
by the end of September, all of the fourth-year students would leave, and by
the end of October all of the resident medical students would be out of the
facility. This plan has been announced at Wayne County General Hospital,
and it is now publicly known.
At the present time, Southwest Detroit Hospital has been involved in
negotiations with Wayne County General and will need to fill certain
contractual arrangements by next month in order to proceed further. There
have been discussions with the people at Southwest Detroit Hospital to let
them know what the University would require to remain at the facility or to
reverse the process of withdrawal.
Regent Baker indicated that the media had reported some resignations
among the staff at Wayne County General Hospital and movements away
from the Hospital by well-qualified physicians. He asked if this was correct
and if that affects the educational opportunities for medical students. Dean
Ward responded that a significant number of key individuals resigned their
positions and departed the institution, which had direct negative impacts on
Wayne County Hospital's ability to perform its teaching commitments to the
third-year medical students.
Regent Baker commented that, in his view, it is important for the people
of the state to understand the reasons for the removal of the medical students
from the facility. He said it was the mission of the University to provide the
best educational opportunities for its students, and that it has become evident
that present circumstances at Wayne County General Hospital make it
impossible to fulfill this obligation.
Dr. Ward indicated that the County Hospital has been an important
educational and resource facility for the Medical School, and the move was
recommended with great reluctance.
Regent Roach inquired about alternative training sites and the number of
students involved. Dr. Ward said that arrangements have been made to place
the medical students at University Hospital and at the Veterans Hospital. A
few clinical services, such as obstetrics and gynecology, will require off-site
locations because it will not be possible to place all students in those
services locally. The same is true for the fourth-year students, although that
will be less difficult because their clerkships are elective and there is more
flexibility at off-site locations. If the approximately 77 residents have to be
withdrawn from Wayne County General Hospital, the majority will be
returned to Ann Arbor, and the others to off-site hospital facilities. There are




JULY MEETING, 1984


7


about 35 third-year and 35 fourth-year medical students currently at Wayne
County General Hospital.
Regent Power commented that a significant portion of this meeting
would be focused on a number of concerns at the Medical Center. She noted
that the extraordinary opportunity to establish the Hughes Medical Institute
on this campus was an indication of the importance of insisting upon
excellence for this institution. Regent Power agreed with Regent Baker's
remarks with respect to clearly defining the priorities of the University.
President Shapiro stated that the priorities of the University are very
clear to the administration. The University has remained at Wayne County
General Hospital for many years because it has been a good facility for the
education of its medical students, and it was felt that the University had an
obligation to the community. Unless some major developments occur, the
University must reluctantly follow through with the plans to withdraw from
the facility.
Regent Baker remarked that he would like to continue Regents Power's
comment and affirm that the University has the reputation of excellence
because it adheres to its education, service and research tasks and does not
become involved in the politics of the moment. Dean Ward has raised a very
difficult question, but Regent Power is correct in stating that the purpose of
the University is to provide first-rate educational opportunities for Michigan's young people and that is where the University should concentrate.
Changing Health Care Environment (DRG System)
Dr. Zuidema indicated that the remaining portion of his discussion
would focus on the changing health care environment. For the past 30 years
or more health care has been built on cost reimbursement patterns and has
grown steadily. During the past few years the situation has been changing
quite rapidly. These changes deal primarily with maintaining a fiscally
sound medical center in order to continue to carry out residency, medical
student and research training.
Dr. Zuidema then presented slides and reviewed the current changes in
health care showing the shift from cost reimbursement to the Diagnostic
Related Groups (DRG) system; how the slackened growth in the population,
an aging population, changes in the economy, and the more costly capital
improvements have changed health care costs; the efforts undertaken for cost
containment in health care and the development of health maintenance and
preferred provider organizations; the multi-institutional systems where hospitals have joined together to share management services wherever possible
to lower their base costs; the increasing competition in the health care area
which will become more aggressive as the physician market continues to
grow; the diversification of interests by many hospitals in an effort to
guarantee some income from more than just the health care field, but in
some related way; and the growth in the for-profit hospital enterprise.
Dr. Zuidema then reviewed the history of the patient base and UM
Hospitals' competition in the state of Michigan. He indicated that a majority
of the hospitals in Michigan are developing ambulatory health clinics, home
health agencies, or entering into joint ventures with physician groups.
Hospital mergers and purchases, satelite clinics, and ambulatory surgi



8


JULY MEETING, 1984


centers are also entering health care and adding active competition to the
field. These outpatient settings eliminate hospital costs thereby reducing
costs to the insurance companies or the individual as the case may be.
The diagnostic related groups reimbursement procedures are forcing
hospitals to look at alternatives to the costly after care of patients. This has
led to the development of extended care facilities, high level nursing homes,
and to home care operations. There are now approximately 40 notices of
intent to file certificates of need for additional nursing home and skilled
nursing home facilities in the state. Most of these are for beds in Wayne and
Oakland Counties, but some include southeastern Michigan hospitals. Of all
of the general acute care hospitals in southeastern Michigan, a little less than
half are part of multi-institutional corporate systems. Several of the hospitals
in this area have reorganized to include some for-profit activities. Joint
venturing between hospitals and between hospitals and physicians is a
growing field.
Health Maintenance Organizations continue to increase their market
penetration, the Health Plan and Health Plan Network are moving into
Washtenaw County, and the Catherine McAuley Health Center physicians
have formed a physicians association. All of these competitive actions have
a direct impact on the University's prospects and on the manner in which
business is conducted at the Medical Center.
Dr. Zuidema referred to Regent Power's comments and stressed the
importance of approaching education, research and patient care equally. If it
should become necessary to change the way in which the Hospital carries on
its business activities in the patient care area, it would be to preserve its
integrity and ability to respond in terms of education and research.
Dr. Zuidema listed several initiatives which are currently under consideration as the Medical Center seeks to adapt to the changing health care scene:
(1) establishing the separate legal entity concept which would be a corporation operated by the clinical faculty of the Medical School and would
preserve the private practice of medicine in a teaching setting; (2) addressing
the matter of University Hospitals' governance by adding community members to the existing hospital executive board in order to balance community
and university representation in the hospital operations. This system would
maintain regental authority and responsibility, but would add another dimension to it; and (3) evaluating the health needs of the state of Michigan by
undertaking a marketing survey. This would determine the public's opinion
of University Hospital, the Medical School, the public's needs or expectations from the Medical School, and how patients and referring physicians
rate the Hospital. Marketing also depends on research and its quality. Being
in the forefront of research activities would enable the Medical Center to
deliver a much better product to the people of the state and would provide a
more effective teaching and research environment for students and faculty.
The Medical Center has been interested in viewing the options provided
by a preferred provider organization. Dr. Dalston and Dr. Ward have
created a task force which has commissioned a feasibility study to examine
this subject. Dr. Zuidema then spoke briefly on the operation of such a
system.
In conclusion, Dr. Zuidema mentioned some alternative revenue services




JULY MEETING, 1984


9


for the Medical Center. These included the possible development of off-site
medical clinics, marketable services which might be shared, such as purchasing and the information system which is being developed in the replacement hospital, developing a home care agency or an extended care facility
where patients can continue convalescence in less expensive beds than the
hospital setting, and developing facilities for less acute services, including
the expansion of ambulatory surgery.
Regent Baker commented that he did not wish his remarks to sound
negative, but he recognized that Dr. Zuidema was a new man at the
University and was the one who had to present this plan. He recognized also
the complexity of the issue and indicated the Board's cognizance of the
funding problems with respect to the operation of the hospital and the
outpatient clinic. He appreciated the initiative which was being taken by the
medical component of the University in an attempt to solve these problems.
He then reviewed a brief history of the involvement by the administration
and the Regents during the past several years, which required a tremendous
amount of time and effort, to remedy some of the major problems of the
Hospital in preparation for future commitments.
Regent Baker said he sensed that the thrust of the separate legal entity
concept was leading to the diminishment of regental authority and the
separation of the medical component from the University. He hoped that
was an incorrect reaction on his part. He indicated he understood the need
for local input and flexibility in undertaking the problems of financing the
cost of services, but he will not allow a separation to occur as long as he is a
member of the Board. Regent Baker said he did not believe that this was Dr.
Zuidema's intent, but he did want to publicly state his views.
Dr. Zuidema commented that it has been understood from the beginning
that the Hospital would remain a component of the University. The proposal
was the product of a study to find a system that would be responsive to the
changing health care scene, and, at the same time, be responsible to the
Board of Regents.
Regent Roach remarked that he understood Regent Baker's concerns.
There have been broad discussions on several occasions about the governance of the Hospital. Dr. Zuidema's comments and communications on the
subject certainly indicate that the Hospital has been undertaking a study to
determine the best method to both govern and manage the facility. The
Regents have been deeply involved in the construction of the replacement
project and other concerns in the area, but there is no regental involvement
in the typical agenda of the Board of Directors of the Hospital. Those items
are brought to the President, Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Kennedy and Frye
along with the Hospital and Medical School team. That might not be the
best mode of governance and certainly should be studied.
With respect to establishing a separate legal entity, Regent Roach indicated that before the Medical Center begins to go in that direction there must
be a better statement of its rationale. A separate legal entity would be a
much greater change than hospital governance. Regent Roach said that it
was not clear to him what the threat was that it would take this path to
resolve.
President Shapiro responded that the question needs to be addressed




10


JULY MEETING, 1984


because it is a critical issue. One of the problems is that the external
environment is changing very rapidly and the University must decide what,
if anything, ought to be done in order to most effectively pursue the mission
of the University. What is ultimately decided is an open question at the
present time and requires a great deal more discussion and understanding.
There is no doubt, however, that the University will be unable to continue in
the same mode in the future as in the past because of the major changes that
are occurring.
Regent Baker congratulated those who were involved in the effort, but
he disagreed with some of the basic thrusts.
President Shapiro stated that, although the schedule with respect to the
separate legal entity concept indicates that it would be organized by the
September meeting, it is apparent that further internal and regental discussion are required before proceeding.
Regent Roach noted the complexity of the issue and agreed that there
must be a great deal more information and discussion in order to determine
the wisdom of entering into a separate legal entity.
Motion to Close Meeting
Regent Roach then moved to meet in closed session at 1:00 p.m.
pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act for the purpose of
discussing a legal opinion which is exempt from disclosure under the
attorney/client exemption Section 13(1)(h) of the Freedom of Information
Act. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner and Waters
voting affirmatively.
The meeting was recessed until 1:00 p.m.
President Shapiro reconvened the meeting and indicated that the proposed user fee for the computer network in the School of Business Administration would be the next item on the agenda. He introduced Dean Gilbert
Whitaker of the School of Business Administration.
Computer User Fee, School of Business Administration
Dean Whitaker reviewed the proposal and indicated that it was quite
similar to that of the College of Engineering which had been approved by
the Regents last year. He commented that the School was attempting to
enhance its support of computer capabilities so that students would graduate
fully competitive as they begin to establish their careers. The School of
Business Administration has entered into a relationship with Burroughs
Corporation in which Burroughs will provide a great deal of equipment and
some support staff to develop a network in the school's new facilities. This
would enable students to have unlimited access to microcomputers, and
through those into the University network to use the University's main frame
computers as well. The proposed fee would provide additional support staff
and some of the operating costs and maintenance on the equipment.
Regent Nederlander asked why the fee would be billed as a separate item
and not included in tuition. Dean Whitaker responded that it would be listed
separately only for those students from another unit who register for courses
in the School of Business Administration.




JULY MEETING, 1984


11


Vice President Frye noted that the College of Engineering has a separate
user fee which had been approved last year. At this time, the principal
reason for segregating the fee was simply visibility and acceptability so the
students would understand what they were getting. If, however, a similar
program were to be initiated in the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts where there would be many more students involved, a determination
would be made as to whether there was any point in continuing to segregate
it as a special fee. Since it is an early step in the computerization of the
University, it seemed appropriate to consider the user fee separately even
though the impact would be the same as a further tuition increase.
Regent Power commented that the computer program at the Engineering
College uses the Apple Computer. She asked if there had been any competitive bidding before choosing computers from the Burroughs Corporation.
Dean Whitaker indicated that there would be approximately $6,000,000
worth of equipment, of which $5,000,000 is a gift from Burroughs. These
microcomputers are business oriented machines and have considerably more
capability than the IBM PC or the Macintosh for the types of business
applications that would be needed.
In response to questions, Dean Whitaker said the cost to a student would
be $400 for the four terms they would be in school. The cost for part-time
students would be about $25.00 per credit hour. There would be between
340 and 500 computers in all, and they would be placed in the student
laboratory, the new library, the group study rooms, and in faculty offices. In
addition, some of the microcomputers would be placed in the Village Plaza
facility where a large number of evening classes are held. The project is
largely a gift with some non-general funds supplying some of the maintenance and support. Burroughs will provide approximately seven people for
the start-up of the system. The School will begin immediately to hire and
train personnel to develop course material and software, and to be counselors for students and faculty. Burroughs Corporation will provide the personnel to train University personnel to maintain the machines, which will
eliminate the need for a maintenance contract.
Dean Whitaker remarked that this is a very important project and would
put the University of Michigan ahead of a large number of its competitive
schools in the national market place. Regent Roach indicated that he had
heard nothing but very good reactions from parents and students in the
Engineering College since their computer program was established. If students had to purchase their own computer, it would not only cost considerably more, but there also would be the risk of obsolescence, maintenance,
and repair. In his view, the program was a great bargain.
Regent Baker moved to approve a fee of $100.00 per term to support the
computer network in the School of Business Administration. Regent Brown
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Public Comments Session
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Joseph Vining, Professor of Law and John Hartman,
Associate Professor of Psychology, on the Kalmbach Management Center.




12


JULY MEETING, 1984


Department of Physical Education, Review of
President Shapiro announced that the meeting would continue with the
regular business items, and would commence with the review of the Department of Physical Education.
Vice President Frye commented that at the time of the review of the
School of Education, a concurrent review was conducted of the Department
of Physical Education. Subsequently, the review committee and the Budget
Priorities Committee recommended that this department be restructured,
disassociated from the School of Education, and a general fund budget
reduction be imposed.
Mary Ann Swain, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, who
was chair of the Budget Priorities Committee at that time and is currently
representing the Office of Academic Affairs in this matter, highlighted the
issues which were addressed in the planning process. The planning committee attempted to promote and sustain the excellence of the exercise science
program, to improve undergraduate instruction by investigating a recommendation to phase out leisure studies, and to explore whether the concentration of student athletes in the department could be changed by enrolling
them in undergraduate programs distributed across the University. The
review process included consultations with many people around the campus.
Professor Eddington, chairman of the department, and his staff were certainly involved in the process.
The recommendation provides for a separate division of physical education with departments in kinesiology, physical education, and sports management and communications. This will require sustaining approximately
the same resources to accomplish not only the program, but also to improve
the coordination of support services for students enrolled in these programs.
Professor Eddington stated that the faculty in physical education endorses the proposal. They feel that the recommendations made by the Office
of Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost are well thought out and
designed to meet the academic interests of the faculty and the academic
needs of the students. The study of physical activity and sport should be
considered an intrinsic obligation of a major research university. Physical
activity is also a major component of health promotion, disease prevention
and rehabilitation. There is also a provision in the recommendation for
academic study and professional preparation in kinesiology and in sports
management and communication.
The curricula for these two disciplines have been developed around basic
and applied research, and are characterized by being both interdisciplinary
and cross disciplinary. Professor Eddington concluded by saying that the
Department of Physical Education supports very strongly this proposal.
President Shapiro noted that the recommendation also requires modest
changes in the Regents' Bylaws to accommodate the formation of the
division and other appropriate changes. In order to allow the normal notice
time, it is hoped that the Regents will approve the changes in principle at
this time and then act formally in September. The President reiterated the
three aspects of the recommendation: the formation of a new division, the
refocus of the department, and the financing of the division.




JULY MEETING, 1984


13


Vice President Frye commented that financial arrangements for the
division had been given careful consideration. In order to achieve the
equivalent savings that had been recommended, a new form of funding had
to be developed in order to continue offering initial programs and to offer
new programs. Those funding sources will come from non-general funds,
primarily from intercollegiate athletics. Although the document in the agenda
is listed as an information item, the administration is asking for approval in
principle in order to proceed with the plan.
Regent Dunn moved approval of the plan to establish a separate division
of physical education, as recommended. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Following further discussion on the degree programs, the number of
credit hours, and the need for the program, the President called for the vote,
and the motion was adopted unanimously.
Operating Budget, 1984-85, Ann Arbor Campus
President Shapiro said he would like to consider next the Ann Arbor
budget proposals for the coming year. The budget discussion for Flint and
Dearborn would be held over until Friday as would any action on the Ann
Arbor budget.
Vice President Frye indicated that he would address the general context
of the budget which is a difficult one and would highlight a few points,
particularly with respect to the question of tuition.
The state has recommended an appropriation of $16,000,000 as opposed
to the University's request for approximately $40,000,000. Obviously, this
presents a substantial difference in what the administration felt would be
adequate to protect the quality of the institution, and a substantial problem in
determining the best way in which to provide that protection with the
resources available.
Vice President Frye briefly commented on the history of the shortfall in
funding of the University of Michigan. The state's share of the University's
general fund budget has declined from 73% to about 49% since 1960, and
tuition has risen from 27% to 43%. This constitutes a loss of approximately
$50 million per year in the operating budget. He emphasized some of the
serious financial long-range problems caused by this trend: (1) the magnitude of the loss of purchasing power, only part of which is made up by
tuition, (2) the internal shift in funding away from program activity because
of the ever increasing cost of utilities and staff benefits, (3) the duration of
the short fall which has been in effect over the last 12 to 15 years, and (4)
the options the University has had available that have gradually been identified and exhausted. Tuition has been raised at an enormous rate, budgets
have been reduced considerably, expenditures have been deferred to the
point that real savings no longer can be achieved, and a substantial breach
has been created in deficits, particularly in salaries, capital, and equipment.
On the academic side, Vice President Frye said it was more difficult to
be precise and quantitative about what was happening. However, he listed
five characteristics: (1) the reduction of the scope of the University, (2) the
growing disparity leading toward inequity in the funding of the various
programs, (3) the important academic impacts on the student body as a
result of the tuition increases, (4) the deteriorating support environment for




14


JULY MEETING, 1984


faculty and students in such areas as recruitment, libraries, laboratories, and
other physical resources which ultimately impacts upon academic programs,
and (5) the situation has created a concern about the vulnerability of the
University and about the confidence of the faculty and the administration in
the future of the institution. It is not a question of survival of the institution,
but whether it is possible to remain one of the finest institutions in the
world. Although very few faculty members have departed and the quality of
the student body has not deteriorated in any measurable way, the University's vulnerability can be underscored by looking at the comparative funding
and expenditures of this institution with those of its peer institutions.
Vice President Frye indicated that he could not draw quantitative comparisons in any specific way with the University's peer institutions because
of the differences in size, productivity and the inclusion of medical schools.
Nonetheless, these facts suggest that: there is a margin of cost associated
with excellence, it is evident that the University of Michigan is a bargain in
this group, and the University cannot continue to compete in maintaining the
environment of faculty and students, equipment and acquisitions, if there is
further decline in the support of that environment.
It is clear that the state of Michigan is not at this time paying fully for
what the University regards to be its share of the costs; therefore, there is
serious uncertainty with respect to the future of the institution. During the
last couple of years there appear to be some signs of a reversal in state
support which is encouraging, and, hopefully, will continue.
Vice President Frye then highlighted some of the features of the budget
proposal. The proposal recommends an increase in revenue of approximately
$27,200,000, of which the state component is $16,278,000. To partially
make up the difference between these figures, an increase of 7% in out-ofstate and graduate tuition and an indirect cost increase of 5% is being
recommended. The proposal also recommends a 0% increase for instate
tuition, an increase of 9.2% for business administration, 9% for dentistry,
9.4% for law, and 9.7% for medicine. The administration decided to
recommend a zero in-state tuition increase in order to cooperate with the
governor and the legislature, who have asked the institutions in Michigan to
consider this alternative. In showing that cooperation, the University hopes
to have a longer-term advantage of the financial base for the University of
Michigan in both the operating budget and capital outlay. This also will
create an advantage for the students and the University's ability to recruit
high quality students from the state. Expenditure increases have been budgeted at $28,600,000, which will leave a budget deficit of $1.4 million.
Vice President Frye indicated that this was an extraordinary step for the
University to take, and was an indication that the University does not have
the capacity to continue to absorb more shortfalls in revenue.
Vice President Frye referred then to the major expenditures of the
University. Salary improvement would account for $10.4 million in order to
prevent further erosion in the salary base and to make some provision for
special market adjustments in areas such as engineering, business, economics and related fields. He emphasized that the salary program is to be based
on merit and would not be distributed across-the-board. Staff benefits,
utilities, and energy reflect a growth of approximately 12%. An increment




JULY MEETING, 1984


15


of $1 million has been provided for equipment because the University's past
sources for funding equipment renewal have become non-existent. For the
first time, a special provision for computing is being formally budgeted. At
this point it is difficult to know what the ultimate rate of growth with respect
to the computing environment will be. Program growth and development
reflects commitments to certain schools that the University will continue to
fulfill.
Regent Baker indicated that he was not persuaded by Vice President
Frye's remarks. He was sympathetic to the spirit of cooperation with the
governor and legislature, but wondered if it would cause greater injury to the
University.
The University has aided the state in many areas during the last few
years, including industry oriented undertakings, various institutes and the
new hospital which will be a first-rate scientific structure and will bring
benefits beyond calculation to the state. The Howard Hughes Institute will
be established in Ann Arbor because of the University's reputation of
excellence and will bring not only financial advantages, but also scholarship, research and service opportunities to the institution.
The recommendation to freeze in-state tuition, in Regent Baker's view,
compromises the constitutional right of the University to raise its own funds
to the extent it can through tuition. The proposed recommendation gives
away that right and sets a precedent. During the last three budget years,
there have been executive orders imposed by the state which have reduced
the income of the University significantly. The income to the University
through the general fund has increased only $38 million over a six-year
period, and two-thirds of that was designated for utilities and staff benefits.
Each year the University has received on average less than the other
institutions. He said that he was not persuaded that tuition should not be
raised.
Regent Baker noted that he has been vehemently opposed to tuition
increases in the last few years, but he does not believe that the University
should be forced to forego its right to raise tuition for whatever reason. He
thought that it would be appropriate to add a 4% increase for in-state
students to the recommendation. He conceded that this might cause a
short-term strain, but he believed that the University was too important to
the state not to have it funded. The Board is being asked to jeopardize its
independence and its constitutionally given authority to raise money and the
only source by which the University has to do this is to raise tuition. Regent
Baker said that he felt the price was too high.
Regent Roach commented that the University would not be giving up
any constitutional authority. If there were enough votes, the Board can raise
tuition, but a very difficult judgment must be made. The University of
Michigan is the highest priced public educational institution in the country.
Indeed, the Board would much rather have tuition significantly less. At the
same time, the excellence of this University must be maintained and enhanced.
During the last five years, there was only one year in which the
University has been above the average of other institutions with respect to
the percentage of change in the appropriations. Over the last ten years the
University was last of 15 institutions in average increment. Compared to the




16


JULY MEETING, 1984


state-wide system of a negative 15% in purchasing power over the last 10
years, the University has a negative purchasing power of minus 23%.
Higher education in this state, and this University in particular, has been
severely underfunded by the state.
Regent Roach referred to the five-year plan that had been undertaken to
compensate for the lack of adequate support. He said the process has been
very painful for all units of the University. The Regents and the administration wish to keep the University of Michigan a world class institution, but
having to operate in a deficit situation makes it very difficult.
For the last two years, the University has been receiving the same
percentage of the appropriation as the other institutions in Michigan. Perhaps this is because of the new representation in the Senate from this
district, but for whatever reason, it is a complete reversal from the preceding
twenty years. It is difficult to determine whether this reversal will be of
short-term duration and whether to raise tuition despite the governor's
request.
Regent Roach commented that he has learned from speaking on various
occasions to many citizens throughout the state that they are very proud that
Michigan can house a world class university. He indicated, however, that he
did not feel that the people of this state realized how large a burden the
underfunding of the institution by the governor and the legislature has placed
on this institution. The talent, management skills, and hard work of the
administration over the last twenty years has made it possible to operate
without a deficit. There is little left at this point; therefore, the University
must get the message out to the people and their representatives that an
extremely valuable asset in the state is being placed in jeopardy.
If the University's action, besides being sensible, could help to get that
message out, Regent Roach indicated that he had enough confidence in the
citizens of Michigan that this situation would be remedied. It is a difficult
situation, but he did not feel that the University would be giving up
constitutional autonomy.
Since there was no further discussion, President Shapiro commented that
action on the budget would be delayed until the Friday session and the
meeting would be recessed.
Friday, July 13, 1984
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and
Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Cosovich, Acting Vice President Sussman
and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Vice President
Johnson was absent and Associate Vice President Easthope attend the meeting for him.
President Shapiro opened the meeting, and asked Vice President Frye to
begin the discussion by commenting upon the transition plan for the School
of Art.




JULY MEETING, 1984


17


School of Art, Transition Plan
Vice President Frye indicated that following the review of the School of
Art, a transition team was appointed within the school to develop plans for
the implementation of the recommendations made by the review committee.
He then introduced Acting Dean Wendell Heers and Associate Vice President Holbrook to present a progress report to the Regents. Vice President
Frye said the executive officers concur with the plan.
Associate Vice President Holbrook commented that the School of Art
was one of three units selected for major reviews at the beginning of the
five-year plan process. Professor Heers was Associate Dean and a member
of the transition team under Dean Bayliss at that time. The committee
devised a substantial revision of the structure of the curriculum, which
Acting Dean Heers would present at this time.
Acting Dean Heers noted that the report was made under the direction
and guidance of Dean Bayliss. He listed the following ten principal components to the transition plan: (1) reduction of full-time faculty to be supplanted
by additional graduate student teaching assistants, part-time faculty, and
visiting artists and lecturers, (2) sub-fields, concentrations, courses and
student options would be reduced, (3) by shifting resources from faculty
lines to GSTA's substantial support for the graduate program could be
generated, (4) the curriculum would undergo major revamping by changing
all two and four credit courses to three credits with significant revision in
course content to reflect the reduction in program options for students, the
schedule framework, and the increased use of GSTA's, (5) the basic studio
program would be restructured to shift from the present course load of four
per term for entering students to two, (6) intercollege relationships would be
developed, (7) introductory studio courses would be created to serve the
needs of non-art students, (8) discussions with LS&A would seek the
creation of a B.A. in Art degree program which should be available in a
university of Michigan's stature, (9) the Spring and Summer half terms
could be substantially expanded, and (10) typical faculty teaching load
would be set at four courses per year to promote higher quality creative
work and scholarly research. How effective these changes will be will most
likely be determined within five years.
Acting Dean Heers indicated that the review had had its positive effects
despite the uncomfortable situation for the school. It brought about a unity of
faculty that had not been experienced before and made them more aware of their
own potential and the important place the school has in the University community. He said that in his capacity as interim dean for this year the two goals
that concern him the most are to maintain the oneness of spirit and energy that
now exists between faculty, staff, and students and to put in place the mechanism
for the mandated changes in the most effective manner possible. The challenge has
been accepted in the right spirit by all, and they are optimistic about the future.
Vice President Frye thanked Dean Heers, Dean Bayliss and the faculty
for their efforts in the whole process and Regent Baker concurred.
School of Business Administration, Dormitory Construction
President Shapiro said that the dormitory construction issue for the
School of Business Administration would be the next item on the agenda.




18


JULY MEETING, 1984


Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the bids that were received for the
construction of the facility and indicated that the financing of the project
would be provided by the fund-raising efforts of the school.
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the award of contract to the low
bidder, Freeman-Darling, Inc., authorize increasing the total project budget
to as much as $6,103,900 subject to additional fund-raising and authorize
the securing of financing for up to twenty years which would be repaid from
pledge payments and housing revenues from the project. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Operating Budget, 1984-85, Ann Arbor Campus
The Regents then turned to the completion of the discussion on the
operating budget for Ann Arbor, and then proceeded to the Flint and
Dearborn operating budgets for 1984-85.
Vice President Frye said he had no additional comments, but wished to
say that the action requested included approval of the fee schedules.
Regent Baker commented that he wished to restate briefly the argument
he presented on Thursday and hoped that Regent Roach would be agreeable
to repeat his comments of the preceding day. He reiterated his strong
objections to the recommendation to keep instate tuition at the present level.
He said he has been just as critical of the administration for raising tuition as
he is for its action in this case. His objections were separate from the tuition
issue itself, but stemmed from the Regents' and the administration's obligations to the institution.
Regent Baker remarked that the Regents were being asked to approve a
deficit budget of $1.4 million, and it is his belief that the University is
obliged in a business sense and in an ethical sense not to operate on a deficit
basis. The University would be financing an obligation with University
funds which, constitutionally, the state is required to do. Over the last
six-year period the legislature has increased the income of the University
only $38 million and of that amount two-thirds was needed for utilities and
staff benefits. The recommendation by the legislature and the governor was
not anywhere near the level of support that the University needs to remain
the quality institution that the people of the state demands of it.
The University would be doing something which, to Regent Baker's
knowledge, has never been done before, and that is to acquiesce to the
power of the legislature and the governor's office. The University would be
giving away the only area over which it has control of its income. He felt
that it would be a major error, both strategically and historically, to give
over the powers of this University to someone else. He hoped there was a
solution to resolve the dilemma, and suggested that perhaps instate tuition
could be raised 2% or 3% while raising out-of-state tuition a little more. It
would solve the deficit problem because it would no longer exist, and the
University would have cooperated with the legislature and the governor.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the Ann Arbor operating budget for
1984-85 and the fee schedule, as recommended. Regent Power seconded the
motion.
Regent Roach said that he would not repeat his remarks which he made
on Thursday, but he would like to make some new points. The proposed




JULY MEETING, 1984


19


defict is real; it is not the same as the budgeted shortfall of a couple of years
ago that the University could make up during the year. The University does
have funds, such as the funds functioning as endowment, which the Regents
have the power to use to cover the deficit, although they would not like to
use up the endowment funds for this purpose. The University must develop
a plan to restore its resources to the level of support in order to continue to
be the world class institution it is. To regain the University's position of a
decade ago, it would require an additional $50 million of general fund
monies.
Regent Roach indicated that his perception at this point was that over the
last seven or eight years the faculty and staff have fallen significantly behind
the cost of living on the order of 17-1/2%. A recent article in the press noted
that essentially the faculty and staff have maintained parity with the cost of
living. In Regent Roach's view and from his recollection of the presentation
by the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty, this was not true.
Hopefully, this year the salary program will be at or slightly in excess of the
rate of inflation. The University cannot expect its faculty and staff to
continue over the long run to subsidize the operations of this University
from their own earnings.
Regent Power remarked that if the Board acts on the recommendation of
the executive officers, it would be, to a large degree, an act of faith with
respect to what the governor and the legislature have tried to do since taking
office to redress and address a ten to fifteen year continuous decline in the
funding of higher education and particularly to this research University.
There has been more discussion with respect to the budget and the budget
recommendation than at any time in all the years she has been on the Board.
Regent Power hoped the University would be sending a clear signal to
Lansing indicating the University's sensitivity to what the leadership in
Lansing has attempted to do. She commented that it was a very serious step
for the University to accept a budget that is out of balance, and she agreed
with Regent Roach that to truly redress the situation at this University would
take many millions of dollars.
In speaking of the eminence of the University, Regent Power mentioned
the establishment of the Howard Hughes Medical Institution on this campus
and the development of a school of mime at the University by Marcel
Marceau which, in her view, only a world class university could accomplish. She suggested that the University be more aggressive in communicating to the legislature, to the citizens of this state, and to other persons who
can affect the future of the University that this is a world-class university
that is known and respected throughout the world.
Regent Nederlander noted that no one likes to approve deficits, and it is
something the University has not done before. He felt that it was in the best
interest of the University to cooperate with the state in any way that it can.
This does not mean that the University would be giving up its autonomy to
raise tuition at any time, but, in the long run, would reap benefits to the
University.
Regent Baker agreed with Regents Power and Roach that the University
was underfunded, but disagreed with the comments pertaining to the generosity of the legislature and the governor. He cited statistics of the last




20


JULY MEETING, 1984


several years which he felt were not indicative of this generosity. Regent
Baker said that, in his view, the University was giving away two major
principles: the Board's right to freely raise tuition, and the right of the
University not to operate on a deficit basis. He then moved to amend the
motion by raising tuition by 2% for in-state students and 3/4% for out-ofstate students. The motion failed for lack of a second.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the original motion by
Regent Dunn and supported by Regent Power. The motion was adopted with
Regent Baker voting no.
In response to Regent Dunn's question, Vice President Brinkerhoff
indicated that the increase in staff benefits was merely the result of escalation in such areas as health insurance.
Operating Budget, 1984-85, Dearborn Campus
Chancellor Jenkins then commented on the proposed operating budget
for the Dearborn campus. He said UM-Dearborn was recommending an
incremental budget of $1,571,000 of which $1.2 million will come from an
increased appropriation and the rest from areas such as miscellaneous fees,
and tuition adjustment. They also were not recommending an increase in
tuition this year. The proposed recommendation would allow the students a
respite after four years of considerable tuition increases.
Although the state appropriation was less than that which was requested
and which was considered required, it will take care of the major problems
on the campus this year. The recommendation has a salary program of
$930,000 which includes the increased cost for fringe benefits and utilities.
The budget will be a move in the right direction, but will not be a point of
great satisfaction.
Regent Dunn asked about the Down River Consortium. Chancellor
Jenkins explained that it consisted of 32 communities in the down river area
which are working on such matters as small business development. The
Dearborn campus has been serving as consultant during the past year in the
areas of computerization of small business planning.
In response to a question by Regent Roach, Chancellor Jenkins responded that Dearborn was recommending a 8-1/2% merit salary program;
5-1/2% from the appropriation and a 3% increment through the reallocation
of funds over the last two years. Regent Roach noted that in peer group
comparison, UM-Dearborn is at the bottom of the nine Class II universities.
The faculty and staff at Dearborn have suffered more than the other two
campuses and he is gratified that some progress is being made.
Operating Budget, 1984-85, Flint Campus
Chancellor Jones indicated that the Flint budget was very straight forward. It reflects an incremental increase of 12.5% in terms of state appropriations. There will be an increase of approximately $300,000 from student
fees, assuming that the enrollment increase experienced in the past year
continues. There will be no tuition fee increase at the Flint campus and the
salary adjustment recommendation will be in the area of 5%.
With respect to the overall budget, Regent Baker stated that the discussions seem to indicate that by cooperating with the legislature and the




JULY MEETING, 1984


21


governor, the University expects some return. He asked the President to
state his views on the subject. Why should the University accept a deficit
budget and why should the University acquiesce to the legislature's directive
to keep tuition at the present level?
President Shapiro commented that he was in support and in agreement
with the issues expressed yesterday and this morning. In his view, the
current attitudes toward the funding of higher education in this state are
changing. He felt that there will be greater support for higher education not
only in the legislature and the governor's office, but throughout the state as
people become more aware of what this means for Michigan's future or for
the future of any region in the country. Dr. Shapiro indicated that he was not
thinking of quid pro quo for this action, but felt that the University could
effectively play a role in rebuilding support for higher education.
The President said he supported also the comments expressed regarding
the necessity of making very dramatic changes in the budget in order to
sustain quality unless there is substantial improvement in the level of support
for higher education in the state. If the governor and the legislature should
back away from their support for higher education and the quality and
distinction of the University's programs should be jeopardized, then certainly other kinds of options, including increasing tuition, must be considered. President Shapiro indicated that the University cannot support quality
on rhetoric alone; resources are needed to do that.
Regent Baker said the discussion had been worthwhile, and it clearly
indicates that if adequate support is not forthcoming, the University will be
seriously injured.
Enrollment, 1984-85
In response to a question from Regent Varner, Vice President Frye
commented that a decline in enrollment of about 300-400 students is predicted for the 1984-85 academic year, but it will not be known for certain
until several weeks into the fall semester. President Shapiro indicated that he
had reviewed the statistics regarding freshman enrollment for the Ann Arbor
campus for this coming fall and found them to be very impressive. The
average grade points, class ranks and SAT scores have increased quite
substantially in virtually all of the schools which is very encouraging. It is
expected also that minority freshman enrollments will be up significantly.
Summary of Revenue Budgets, 1984-85
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the summary of the revenue budgets for 1984-85. He especially noted that the document estimates revenues
for designated, auxiliary and expendable restricted funds which may be
changed in September following discussions with the units. The detailed
budgets will be presented to the Regents in September.
Regent Power moved to approve the summary revenue budgets for
1984-85. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted with
Regent Baker voting no.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of June 14 and 15, 1984 were approved.




22


JULY MEETING, 1984


II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his montly reports on investment
transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, hospital
replacement program, and non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources from April 1 through June 30, 1984.
Vice President Sussman filed his monthly report on grants and contracts
for research.
Ronald McDonald House
In connection with the plant extension report, Vice President Brinkerhoff
reviewed the site plan and the schematic and design drawings for the Ronald
McDonald House. He said that each House in the country is architecturally
designed individually, and that the firm of Johnson, Johnson & Roy has
reviewed the plans and concurred that the design was appropriate for the
site.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following sources.
They were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Ann Arbor University of Michigan Alumnae Club, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Alumnae Council Scholarships fund.....................................  4,500
Alumnae Council Scholarships for Henderson House fund...................  1,000
Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club, Ann Arbor; for the Ann Arbor University
of Michigan  Club  Scholarship  fund......................................  6,721
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the American Cancer
Society  funds........................................................  21,792
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York; for the American Diabetes
A ssociation  funds...................................................  6,385
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis Foundation funds.........  7,875
Mary Baloyan Trust; for the following funds:
Martin A. & Newart B. Baloyan Scholarship Fund in Literature, Science and the
A rts  fund...........................................................  30,000
Newart B. Baloyan Music Scholarship fund...............................  22,000
Brunswick Foundation, Inc., Skokie, Illinois; for the following funds:
Brunswick/Charles Alexander Scholarship fund............................ 10,000
Employee M atching  Gifts fund..........................................  6,580
Burlington Northern Foundation, Seattle, Washington; for Employee Matching
G ifts  fund...........................................................  10,800
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the
Leo  Burnett Scholars Award  funds......................................  26,313
Cadillac Gage Company, Division of Ex-Cell-O Corporation, Warren; for the
School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund............ 10,000
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York; for the:
School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund............ 20,000
Employee M atching  Gifts fund..........................................  200
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for the Children's Leukemia
Foundation  of M ichigan  funds..........................................  6,201
Council for Tobacco Research, New York, New York; for the Council for Tobacco
Research  funds.......................................................  17,500
Detroit Orthopaedic Clinic, Detroit; for the Handicapped Child Restraints fund.....  5,000
Diasonics, Inc., NMR Division, South San Francisco, CA; for the Radiology Research
Support  fund........................................................  250,000




JULY MEETING, 1984


23


Douglas & Lomason Company, Farmington Hills; for the School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund..................................  5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland; for the Dow Chemical Grant in
Chemical Engineering fund............................................  8,000
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland; for Employee Matching Gifts fund  23,245
Ex-Cell-O Corporation, Walled Lake, for the School of Business Administration
Campaign - Undesignated fund......................................... 10,000
Clinton B. Ford, Wilton, Connecticut; for the Campaign For Michigan - Pending
Designation  fund.....................................................  35,000
General Foods fund, Inc., White Plains, New York; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund............ 50,000
Employee  Matching  Gifts fund..........................................  1,624
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota; for the following funds:
Business School Associates Program  fund.................................  5,000
Chemical Engineering Special fund.....................................  4,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust; for the Charles H. Gershenson fund............... 50,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland; for the Gerstacker Teaching Fellowship in
Chemical Engineering  fund.............................................  15,000
Genevieve Gilmore Trust; for the School of Business Administration Campaign -
Undesignated  fund....................................................  25,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; for the Gastroenterology Educational Research  fund..................................................  10,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for the General Motors Graduate Fellowship  in  Business Administration  fund.....................................  10,000
William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York; for the Hearst Foundation - Positron Emission Tomography Research fund........................ 20,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit; for the Department of Surgery Immunobiology fund.. 25,000
Mildred Hires Estate; for the School of Education fund........................  5,079
Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Charitable Trust, Grand Rapids; for the School of
Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund....................  5,000
Minnie Kempf Hosack Estate; various common stocks; for the Ruben Kempf Economics  Professorship  fund.................................................  45,533
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown, NY; for the following funds:
Business Administration Computer Information Systems Faculty Special fund...  2,000
Business Administration Information Systems Fellowship fund................ 12,200
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, CA; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund............  5,000
President's  fund......................................................  10,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana; for the Joseph and
Louise  A. Jarabak  funds..............................................  9,913
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, NJ; for the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation  funds.....................................................  203,360
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund; for the Biological Station funds...................  8,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial  fund...........................................................  7,517
John Klanderman Trust; for the John Klanderman Scholarship fund............... 11,225
K mart Corporation, International Headquarters, Troy; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund............ 50,000
Employee M atching  Gifts fund..........................................  130
Sonia Ladoff Estate; for the Ladoff Medical Scholarship fund................... 95,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for the following funds:
Behavioral Pharmacology Research fund..................................  5,000
Gastroenterology Educational Research fund............................... 11,678
Employee  Matching  Gifts fund.........................................  350
Bertha J. Major Estate; for the Bertha J. Major fund.......................... 29,014
Marie Marcellus Estate; for the Mott/Women's/Holden Hospitals Special Projects
fund...............................................................  20,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
fund...............................................................  16,150




24                         JULY MEETING, 1984
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey; for the following funds:
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund............................... 10,000
Merck Company Foundation Building Fund in Pharmacy fund..................  10,000
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank fund...............  9,000
Otto Neil Miller, San Francisco, CA; for the Chemical Engineering Special fund...  5,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts fund. 15,010
Thomas S. Monaghan Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Ensemble Theatre
fund.............................................................  12,500
Isabel Hicks Nauman Estate; for the Charles Virgil Hicks Fund.................. 500,000
Nelson Research, Irvine, CA; for the Nelson Research funds...................  6,250
N L Industries Foundation, Inc., New York, NY; for the N L Industries Foundation
Scholarship  fund.....................................................  7,500
Ohio Medical Anesthetics, Madison, WI; for the Ohio Medical Anesthetics fund...  5,000
Katharine J. Osuna, Albuquerque, NM; for the following funds:
Alumnae Birthday Greetings fund.......................................  10
Law  School fund....................................................  10,000
Owens-Coming Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, OH; for the Owens-Coming Fiberglas
Corporation funds.................................................... 20,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland; for the Elsa U. Pardee Foundation funds..... 30,500
Pryor Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the School of Business Administration Undesignated  fund..........................................................  10,000
Henry King Ransom Estate; for the Henry King Ransom Professorship of Law fund:
various common stocks and cash gift.................................... 172,310
Reliance Electric Company Charitable, Scientific and Educational Trust Fund, Cleveland, Ohio; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund............ 16,666
Employee Matching Gifts funds.........................................  100
David Schwartz Foundation, Inc., New York, NY; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration fund..................................  2,000
Campaign for Michigan - Undesignated fund..............................  8,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit; for the following funds:
Skillman Children's Eye Clinic fund..................................... 200,000
Skillman Chair in Pediatric Ophthalmology fund........................... 500,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I.
Sledd Loan fund.....................................................  5,670
Goff Smith, Winnetka, Illinois; Upjohn Company, common stock; for the School
of Business Administration Campaign - Undesignated fund................... 13,838
Margaret and Herman Sokol, New York, NY; U.S. Industries, common stock; for
the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship fund..........................  7,088
Standard Oil Company (Ohio), Cleveland, OH; for the Geology-Mineralogy Capital
Campaign fund......................................................  10,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, MA; for the Scottish Rite Schizophrenia Foundation  fund.........................................................  6,215
George and Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso; for the Symes Scholarship in
Chemical and Electrical Engineering  fund.................................  41,369
Touche Ross & Company, Detroit; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration Accounting Faculty Special fund...........  7,000
Dearborn Campus - Business Administration Development fund...............  1,500
Hans W. Vahlteich, Fort Lee, NJ; Gulf Corporation, common stock, divided as follows:
College of Pharmacy fund.............................................  4,996
Hans W. Vahlteich  Research  fund.......................................  4,996
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor; for the School of Business Administration
Campaign - Undesignated fund......................................... 10,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in kind were received:
Ann Arbor Terminals, Inc., Ann Arbor. An Ann Arbor Terminals Ambassador
terminal; for the Transportation Research Institute
Mr. and Mrs. William T. Carter, Jr., Ann Arbor A Chinese T'Ang Dynasty sculpture;
for the Museum of Art




JULY MEETING, 1984                                  25
Exxon Production Research Company, Houston, Texas. An Hastalloy C, acidizing test
cell and 20 limestone cores; for the Department of Chemical Engineering
Jackson and Perkins, Medford, Oregon. Approximately 300 rosebushes; for the Henry
Ford Estate at Fairlane
Herbert and Susan Johe, Ann Arbor. A rare Vincenzo Maria Coronelli map (Venice,
1696); for the Hatcher Graduate Library
Eugene Jukkara, Ann Arbor. Two wheelchairs; for The University of Michigan
Hospitals
Marshall Provincial House, Marshall. One electric wheelchair; for The University of
Michigan Hospitals
Virginia Trowbridge Thomas, Denver, Colorado. A collection of 193 letters from
George Martin Trowbridge, M.D., to his wife and daughter (1863 - 1865); for the
Clements Library
The Regents received a report on development and University relations.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unlesss otherwise indicated
Steven L. Barriere, Pharm.D., Associate Professor of Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, with
tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Pharmacy in Internal Medicine, Medical
School, without tenure, August 1, 1984
Terry E. Brockett, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering,
without tenure
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, reappointed as Senior Research Scientist in the Museum of Anthropology, July 1, 1984
David Foster Hayes, Ph.D., Samuel Trask Dana Professor of Outdoor Recreation, School of
Natural Resources, without tenure
Douglas A. Hales, Professor Emeritus of Finance, appointed to teach Finance 611 for Fall term
John W. Henderson, M.D., Professor Emeritus of Ophthalmology, appointed to active status in
the Department of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1984
Ramiro J. Hernandez, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, July 1, 1984
Stephen J. Mathes, M.D., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also Head of the Section of Plastic
and Reconstructive Surgery, July 1, 1984
Semyon Meerkov, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
Henry Meyer, Professor Emeritus of Social Work, appointed to active status to teach a
Sophomore Honors Seminar
Charles E. Owen, Professor Emeritus of Music, appointed to active status in the School of
Music
George Piranian, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, appointed to active status to teach a
Freshman Seminar
Gustave A. Rosseels, Professor Emeritus of Music, appointed to active status in the School of
Music
Christian S. Stohler, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, April 1, 1984
Quentin F. Stout, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciene,
without tenure
Robert F. Todd, III, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, July
1, 1984
Fawwaz Ulaby, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated




26


JULY MEETING, 1984


Robert G. Behrens from Director of UM-Dearborn Financial Services to Interim Vice Chancellor and Director of Business and Finance, August 1, 1984
Donald R. Brown, Professor of Psychology, appointed Director of the Center for Research on
Learning and Teaching
Christopher R. Coddington, Assistant Professor in Theatre, appointed Chairperson of the
Theatre Department, UM-Flint
James I. Crump, Professor of Chinese, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Far
Eastern Languages and Literatures, January 1, 1985
Harry K. Edwards, Professor of Computer Science, reappointed Chairman of the Computer
Science Department
Gideon Frieder, Professor of Computer and Communication Science, appointed Chairman of
the Division of Computer Science and Engineering, Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
Allan F. Gibbard, Professor of Philosophy, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of
Philosophy, September 1, 1984
Virginia B. Gordan, Coordinator of Academic Programs for the Law School, appointed Assistant Dean of the Law School, September 1, 1984
George I. Haddad, Professor and Chairman, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, also appointed Chairman of the Division of Electrical Engineering, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Glenn F. Knoll, Professor of Nuclear Engineering reappointed Chairman of the Department of
Nuclear Engineering
Charles R. Krahmalkov, Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Languages and Literatures, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Near Eastern Studies, September 1, 1984
David C. Leach, Clinical Assistant Professor and Acting Director of the Office of Medical
Education at Henry Ford Hospital, appointed Assistant Dean of the Medical School
Roger C. Loeb, Associate Professor of Psychology, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 1984
William R. Marsh, Associate Professor of Physical Geography, reappointed Chairman of the
Resource and Community Science Department, UM-Flint
William J. Meyer, Associate Professor of Political Science, appointed Acting Director of
Graduate and Special Programs, UM-Flint
Michael G. Parsons, Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, reappointed
Chairman of the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Beverley J. Pooley, Director of the Law Library, appointed Associate Dean for the Law Library,
September 1, 1984
Ronald E. Silverman, Associate Professor of Psychology, appointed Chairman of the Department of Psychology, UM-Flint
Eugene H. Studier, Professor of Biology, reappointed Chairman of the Biology Department,
UM-Flint
Charles T. Weber, Associate Professor of Economics, appointed Chairman of the Department
of Economics, UM-Flint
Martin B. Zimmerman, Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, also appointed Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, September 1, 1984
The following committee appointments were approved.
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Professor Donald R. Brown, for a three-year term, beginning June 1, 1984
Professor Ralph M. Gibson, for a three-year term, beginning June 1, 1984
Professor Cheryl E. Easley, for a three-year term, beginning June 1, 1984
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, Alumni Members
Mr. Sam Weiss, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, beginning June 1, 1984
Mr. Richard Katcher, to succeed himself, for a three year term, beginning June 1, 1984
Martha Cook Building Board of Governors
Dr. Sharon Nash, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Mrs. Martha Cook Nash,
term expired




JULY MEETING, 1984


27


College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Professor James A. Chaffers, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Professor
Henry S. Kowaleski, term expired
Professor James C. Snyder, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Professor Gerald
E. Crane, term expired
University Hospitals Executive Board
Dr. Robert P. Kelch, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, beginning July 1, 1984
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Dr. James D. Shortt, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term beginning July 1, 1984
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Professor Nancy E. Reame, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Professor
Thelma J. Wells, term expired
Professor Lauren S. Aaronson, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Professor
Sue Fink, term expired
Advisory Committee on Recreation, Intramurals and Club Sports
Ms. Sara C. Heitshu, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Professor Seyhan Ege,
term expired
Professor Matthew J. Trippe, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1984, vice Professor Alfred
W. Storey, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Professor James W. Brown, for a three-year term, beginning September 1, 1983
Professor Elton Higgs, for a three-year term,beginning September 1, 1982
Associate Professor Richard Norman, for a three-year term, beginning September 1, 1984
Professor Richard Roehl, for a two-year term, beginning September 1, 1983
Associate Professor Rainer Sell, for a three-year term, beginning September 1, 1984
Leave of Absence
The Regents approved an extension of a leave of absence for David W.
Gidley, Assistant Professor of Physics.
Authorization to Approve Tenured Appointments during August
The Regents authorized the President and Vice President for Academic
Affairs and Provost to approve any regular tenured faculty appointments
during August that may become necessary to complete the staffing for the
opening of the fall term. Such appointments will be reported to the Regents
at the September meeting.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Mary Ellen A. Bozynski, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 15, 1984
Fred L. Bye, D.D.S., Dentistry
Francis S. Collins, M.D., Internal Medicine
Rebecca S. Eisenberg, J.D., Law
Susan A. Gelman, Ph.D., Psychology
H. Kaz Soong, M.D., Ophthalmology
Josef N. Kolling, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 1, 1984
David N. Shapiro, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Randall K. Ten Haken, Ph.D., Radiation Therapy
Adjunct Professor
Norman F. H. Ho, Ph.D., Pharmacy, June 1, 1984




28


JULY MEETING, 1984


Adjunct Lecturer
Winniefred Anthonio, M.A., Germanic Languages and Literature
Douglas A. Clarke, B.A., Management, UM-Dearborn
Terry L. Dunivin, M.S.W., Social Work, May 1, 1984
Margaret R. Edwards, M.S.N., Nursing, May 1, 1984
Alan H. Foster, M.B.A., Finance
Mark A. Vaitkus, Ph.D., Sociology
Instructor
Dorit D. Adler, M.D., Radiology
Daniel D. Alterman, M.D., Radiology
Fred M. Aueron, M.D., Internal Medicine, April 1, 1984
Richard F. Diaz, M.D., Radiation Therapy
Deborah S. Granke, M.D., Radiology
Thomas J. Griggs, M.D., Radiology
Laurence R. Heavey, M.D., Radiology
James J. Holloway, M.D., Internal Medicine
Joel D. Howell, M.D., Internal Medicine, June 15, 1984
Robert E. Schumacher, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Christopher W. Vanderzant, M.D., Neurology
John B. Whitaker, M.D., Radiology
Edward J. Woolsey, M.D., Radiology
Clinical Assistant Professor
Robert J. DeLap, Ph.D., Internal Medicine, March 1, 1984
Vanessa G. Schweitzer, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, May 1, 1984
Clinical Instructor
Jeffrey P. Berger, M.D., Internal Medicine
Sue E. Cichowski, D.D.S., Dentistry
Michael J. Gengle, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1984
Patricia Lamb, M.D., Surgery, June 1, 1984
Michael R. Reich, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 11, 1984
Keith S. Rottman, D.D.S., Dentistry
Errol I. Soskolne, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Visiting Professor
Michael R. Asimow, L.L.B., Law, July 5, 1984
Robert F. Drinan, S.J.D., Law, July 5, 1984
Rex L. Lowe, Ph.D., Biological Station
Elsa Reiner, Ph.D., Environmental and Industrial Health, June 6, 1984
Richard V. Wellman, J.D., Law, July 5, 1984
Visiting Associate Professor
Harvey D. Blankespoor, Ph.D., Biological Station
James B. Forger, M.Mus., Music
Visiting Assistant Professor
David P. Cowan, Ph.D., Biological Station
Francesca J. Cuthbert, Ph.D., Biological Station
Brian P. McLaughlin, Ph.D., Philosophy
Terry L. Sharik, Ph.D., Biological Station
Visiting Lecturer
Tamara B. George, M.S.N., Nursing, May 2, 1984
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Estelle R. Bank, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Leslie A. Shimp, from Assistant Professor of Pharmacy to Assistant Professor of Pharmacy and
Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Practice
Gilbert S. Small, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry,
May 1, 1984




JULY MEETING, 1984


29


TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective June 30, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Thomas L. Dent, Surgery, July 31, 1984
Radu Penciulescu, Theatre and Drama, May 31, 1984
Assistant Professor
Theodore G. Gabig, Internal Medicine
Joseph P. Gee, Pharmacy
Lucia K. Jim, Pharmacy
Jolita L. Kisielius, Marketing
Dennis R. Maceri, Otorhinolaryngology, June 28, 1984
Robert Mendelsohn, Natural Resources and Economics, May 31, 1984
Donald F. Parker, Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations
Peter A. Wilson, Hospital Administration, May 31, 1984
Instructor
Michael B. Rozboril, Internal Medicine
Michael P. Schweitzer, Anesthesiology
Harold N. Stinson, Anesthesiology, June 22, 1984
Ranjit Verma, Anesthesiology
Mary B. Watts, Internal Medicine, May 31, 1984
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of seven faculty members.
The following retirement memoirs were adopted:
AMELIO MILO D'ARCANGELO, Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1984, after twenty years of dedicated
service as a teacher and educator. He has been an internationally recognized authority on ship
structures and naval architecture and marine engineering education.
Professor D'Arcangelo received a Bachelor of Science Degree in Marine Engineering from
the Argentine Naval Academy in 1937. He earned a Master of Science Degree in Naval
Construction from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1941. While holding various
engineering positions in the Argentine Navy Bureau of Ships, Professor D'Arcangelo held the
appointment of Professor of Naval Architecture at the University of Buenos Aires from 1946
through 1951. In 1953, he came to the United States permanently and joined the faculty at
M.I.T. as an Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture. In 1958, Professor D'Arcangelo
accepted an appointment as Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute where he created a course sequence in naval architecture and marine engineering.
Professor D'Arcangelo joined The University of Michigan in January, 1964, as a Professor of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering. He served as associate chairman of his department
from 1975 through 1981. During his years at the University, he was well known for his
dedicated and effective teaching of ship design which was greatly enhanced by his extensive
professional experience.
Professor D'Arcangelo is noted for his book Guide to Sound Ship Structures, and the
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers' major work, Ship Design and Construction,
for which he served as Technical Editor of the 1969 edition. He is also recognized as an
authority on naval architecture and marine engineering education. He had a lead role for many
years in accreditation activities in the United States and served as a major consultant in the
creation of educational programs at the University of Vera Cruz and the University of New
Orleans. D'Arcangelo was one of the original founders of the Pan American Institute of Naval
Engineers (IPEN) and served both as the United States Representative Director and as the
overall Director. He is a Fellow of both the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers
and the Royal Institution of Naval Architects, London. In 1981, D'Arcangelo was elected a
member of the Mexican Academy of Engineering.




30


JULY MEETING, 1984


The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and educator by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering.
SAUL I. HARRISON, Professor of Psychiatry in the Department of Psychiatry, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1984, after a most productive career as clinician,
administrator, teacher and investigator.
A native of New York City, Dr. Harrison took undergraduate and medical studies at The
University of Michigan, where he received his M.D. degree in 1948. He then completed
residencies in Psychiatry and Child Psychiatry at Temple University School of Medicine and
Hospital and at St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, followed by the completion of psychoanalytic and child psychoanalytic training at the Philadelphia Psychoanalytic Institute in 1957.
Additional postgraduate education occurred at London's Hampstead Clinic with a Commonwealth Fund Fellowship.
During the years 1954 to 1956, Dr. Harrison held appointments as Instructor in Psychiatry
at the Temple University School of Medicine, Lecturer at the Philadelphia Psychoanalytic
Institute, and Assistant Visiting Neuropsychiatrist at St. Christopher's Hospital for Children. In
1956, Dr. Harrison was appointed Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at The University of
Michigan. In 1961, he was promoted to Associate Professor of Psychiatry and in 1966, to
Professor of Psychiatry.
During his 28 years at the University, Dr. Harrison served as Associate Director, Chief of
Child Outpatient Services and Training Director at Children's Psychiatric Hospital, as well as
Director of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Education.
Dr. Harrison is a nationally known educator and researcher who is the author of six books
and more than 80 articles and chapters in various professional journals and books. He has
served on the Editorial Boards of the Journal of the American Academy of Child Psychiatry, the
International Journal of Psychoanalysis and the Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders. Several contributed volumes which he edited have become widely influential in child
psychiatry. Particularly noteworthy was his editorship of Volume III on therapeutic interventions of Noshpitz's Basic Handbook of Child Psychiatry, which has become the basic textbook
of the field. Dr. Harrison was the first President of the Michigan Council of Child Psychiatry
and has served as President of the Michigan Psychoanalytic Society, Councillor of the American Academy of Child Psychiatry, and Director of the American Orthopsychiatric Association.
The Regents now salute Saul I. Harrison for his dedicated service to the University by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry.
GEORGE E. HAY, Professor of Mathematics, retired from active faculty status as of
June 30, 1984, after a productive career as a teacher, researcher and administrator.
A native of Canada, Professor Hay studied at the University of Toronto and received his
B.A. degree in 1935, M.A. degree in 1936, and Ph.D. degree in 1939. He served one year as
an instructor at the Armour Institute of Technology in Chicago, and came in 1940 to The
University of Michigan as an instructor. Professor Hay was promoted to assistant professor in
1942, to associate professor in 1947, and to professor in 1956.
Professor Hay's area of specialization was applied mathematics. He made consistent contributions to this field until 1957 when he was called to lead the Department of Mathematics
following the retirement of its longtime former chairman. He was named Acting Chairman in
1957, and Chairman for the period 1958-67. Professor Hay's quiet and capable leadership
helped guide the Department through a difficult ten years when financial pressures inside the
University, and a strong demand for highly trained mathematicians from without, seriously
threatened mathematics at The University of Michigan.
In 1967, Professor Hay was appointed Associate Dean of the Rackham Graduate School, a
post which he held until 1976 when he returned to full-time teaching in the Department until his
retirement.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated teaching and administrative service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
WILFRED M. KINCAID, Professor of Mathematics, retired from active faculty status
as of June 30, 1984, after a fruitful career as a teacher and researcher.
Professor Kincaid was born in Cornhill, Scotland, and studied in the United States,
receiving his A.B. degree from the University of California in 1940, and the Ph.D. degree from
Brown University in 1946. Professor Kincaid's training was in applied mathematics, and he




JULY MEETING, 1984


31


served as a physicist during the war years, 1944-46, at the National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautics at Langley Field.
Professor Kincaid came to the Department of Mathematics at The University of Michigan in
1946, where he served three years as an instructor before assuming a post as Research
Mathematician at the University's Engineering Research Institute. In 1957, he returned as
lecturer to the Department where he remained until retirement. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1960, to associate professor in 1963, and to professor in 1971.
Professor Kincaid had broad interests, ranging from psychology and economics to optics,
and made contributions to many branches of applied mathematics. He was a thorough and
conscientious teacher, and served the Department with great skill in many administrative tasks.
The Regents now salute this valued educator for his dedicated service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
GEORGE PIRANIAN, Professor of Mathematics, retired from active faculty status as of
June 30, 1984, after a distinguished career as a teacher and researcher.
He was born in Thalwil, Switzerland, and came to the United States to obtain his
undergraduate degree at Utah State Agricultural College in 1936. He studied for two years as a
Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University and subsequently at the Rice University in Houston where
he received the Ph.D. degree in 1943. He spent the remaining years of the war as a member of
the Applied Mathematics Groups at Columbia and Northwestern Universities and in 1945 came
to The University of Michigan as instructor, where he remained until retirement. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1947, to associate professor in 1953, and to professor in
1958.
Professor Piranian is an internationally known scientist who made many interesting and
substantial contributions to the field of complex function theory during the thirty-eight years he
was at The University of Michigan. His research was highly esteemed by colleagues throughout
the world, and he was always a popular lecturer at conferences because of the content of his
talks and the inimitable style in which they were presented.
Professor Piranian was a model teacher, and he directed the Department's Honors Program
for sixteen years. He also served as Managing Editor of the Michigan Mathematical Journal
from the time it was founded, in 1953, until 1975. The Journal thrived under his meticulous
direction and uncompromising standards and it has become a major international mathematical
publication.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher and teacher for his dedicated service
by naming him Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
RICHARD J. ROSS, Associate Professor of English, retired from active faculty status
as of May 31, 1984, after a career in the College of Engineering.
Professor Ross joined the Department of English in the College of Engineering first as a
teaching fellow in English after his wartime service in the European Theatre of action (1942-45)
in 1946. He continued in this role through the first years of his graduate study in English
Language and Literature at The University of Michigan. In 1952, he became an instructor and,
upon receipt of his Ph.D. degree in English in 1958, an assistant professor. In 1965, he was
promoted to the rank of associate professor and continued to teach until his retirement in 1983.
Thus, Professor Ross has served The University of Michigan for thirty-seven years.
Other assignments included brief periods as a personnel assistant for the Kaiser-Frazer
Corporation and as a newspaper reporter. However, Professor Ross' first love was teaching
literature to undergraduate students. A specialist in the poetry of Robert Herrick, he particularly
enjoyed teaching poetry classes for Engineering students, and frequently served as a mentor and
critic for students who were interested in the writing of poetry. He also served the University
through a number of appointments to various committees.
In all of his professional roles, Professor Ross was regarded by his students and colleagues
as someone who took the time to listen carefully and to deal with people and problems in a
warm, concerned way. His students will no doubt remember him as someone who really cared
about them as individuals.
The Regents now salute this dedicated faculty member of The University of Michigan by
naming him Associate Professor Emeritus of English.
G. BRYMER WILLIAMS, Professor of Chemical Engineering, and Metallurgical Engineering, retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1984, after a most productive career
as a teacher, researcher, and administrator.




32


JULY MEETING, 1984


Professor Williams received his B.S. degree in 1936 and his Ph.D. degree in 1949, both
from The University of Michigan. Professor Williams' 46 years of teaching was preceded by
employment as a chemical engineer at the M.W. Kellogg Company (1941-47). He has been a
consultant for nearly thirty years with Phillips Petroleum, with Applied Automation, Inc., and
with other companies and governmental agencies.
Before joining The University of Michigan Chemical Engineering faculty, Professor Williams taught as an adjunct professor at New York University. He was appointed as an instructor
here in 1947, promoted to assistant professor in 1948, to associate professor in 1950, and to
professor in 1956.
As undergraduate program advisor for the Department, Professor Williams was instrumental
in making the curriculum one of the most outstanding in the country. He served as the principal
counselor to undergraduate students and guided them to successful completion of their academic
studies. His devoted and conscientious approach to his work with students is remembered by
alumni, and they are proud to regard him as their friend.
Professor Williams has played a major role in the University community. A few of the
boards and committees on which he has served are Hospitals' Public Advisory Committee,
University Development Council, SACUA, Senate Assembly (member and chairman), Shapiro
Inaugural Committee, College Honors Committee, Centennial in Engineering Education, and
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics.
He was one of the pioneers in developing the concept of unit operations in chemical
engineering, which has influenced the teaching approach in this field for decades. His research
activities have centered around petroleum engineering, and have included the design of processes and systems, plant tests and optimization studies, regional natural resource development
studies, and development of energy conservation programs.
He is a registered Professional Engineer and a fellow in the American Institute of Chemical
Engineers. Professor Williams is also member of the American Chemical Society, the American
Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Engineering Education, the Canadian Society of Chemical Engineers, the Colorado Mining Association, Sigma
Xi, Tau Beta Pi, Phi Lambda Upsilon, and Phi Kappa Phi.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Chemical and'Metallurgical Engineering.
VII. MEMORIALS
Secretary Kennedy reported the death of two faculty members. The
following memorial statements were adopted:
DONALD B. SANDS, Professor of English Language and Literature, died on July 1,
1984, at the age of 63. Professor Sands was well-known as a lexicographer and editor specializing in medieval English language and literature, the history of the Germanic languages, and
American place names. In April 1984, he was awarded a Rackham Grant for the preparation of
a book on the history of American English.
Born August 12, 1920, in Waterbury, Connecticut, Professor Sands was graduated from
Lehigh University in 1942. From 1942 to 1945, he served in the U. S. Army Signal Corps, and
after the war he taught at the Universities of Arkansas and Maine before entering Harvard for
his M.A. (1947) and Ph.D. (1953) degrees. He taught for two years at Bowdoin College before
joining the G. & C. Merriam Company in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he worked as a
definer and etymologist in the preparation of Webster's Third New International Dictionary.
From that position, he moved to Boston College where he held the rank of associate professor
from 1957 to 1963.
Following two summer appointments (in 1962 and 1963), Professor Sands was appointed
Associate Professor of English Language and Literature in 1964, and in 1967 was appointed to
professor. In addition to his teaching in the department, he also worked as an editor for the
Middle English Dictionary.
Professor Sands was a devoted and meticulous scholar. His Concise Bibliography for
Students of English was a standard work for a generation of graduate students, and his edition
of William Caxton's History of Reynard the Fox remains the definitive text of this literary work
of 1481. He was a member of the Modem Language Association, the American Name Society,
the American Dialect Society, and the Dictionary Society of North America. In recent years, he




JULY MEETING, 1984


33


published articles and reviews on Chaucer, on place names in Maine and New Brunswick, and
on dictionaries of German and of English. In the early 1970's, he founded and did the basic
work for a study of the place names of the lower peninsula of Michigan, a project that failed to
attract sufficient external funding to be brought to completion but one that continued to occupy
his interests and his leisure time.
As a teacher, Professor Sands was at home in courses in medieval literature, the history of
the English language, American literature, and composition. He also advised undergraduates as
a counselor in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts Counseling Office. His service of
twenty-one years to The University of Michigan was unfailingly devoted, and he will be greatly
missed by his students and colleagues.
The University of Michigan notes with regret the passing on June 24, 1984 of DR. JOHN
MARTIN WELLER, Professor of Internal Medicine, who had a long and distinguished career
at this institution.
Dr. Weller received his undergraduate degree from The University of Michigan in 1940
with distinction. Following receipt of the M.D. degree from Harvard Medical School in 1943,
post graduate training in medicine at both Harvard and Vanderbilt Universities, and membership on the faculty at Harvard Medical School, he returned to The University of Michigan in
1953 as Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine. This initiated a long and productive faculty
career at this institution, where he served as the first director of the Nephrology Division at The
University of Michigan and rose to the academic rank of Professor of Internal Medicine. Most
recently, in addition to his appointment as Professor of Internal Medicine, Dr. Weller served as
Medical Director of the Michigan Kidney Registry. Dr. Weller held membership in numerous
professional societies, played a key leadership role in the activities of the National Kidney
Foundation of Michigan, and was the author of numerous scientific publications as well as
several books concerned with diseases of the kidney. He leaves behind the legacy of the
development of the discipline of nephrology at The University of Michigan and of the many
physicians he trained, who practice this subspecialty throughout this state and the nation.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1984
delete: Linda Lee Allen
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science, Aerospace Engineering, April 27, 1984
delete: Robert Maurice McGee
add:    Glen Charles Herman, summa cum laude
Bachelor of Science, Civil Engineering, April 27, 1984
delete: Robert Glen Herman
Bachelor of Science, Industrial and Operations Engineering, April 27, 1984
add:   Robin Danielle Bachman, cum laude
Bachelor of Science, Mechanical Engineering, April 27, 1984
delete: Steven Jerald Bachman
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, April, 1984, American Culture
add: Julie Ann Hall, B.A. University of Colorado, Boulder
Master of Science, April, 1984, Bioengineering
add: Christopher Minardi, B.S., Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Master of Science, April, 1984, Mathematics
add: Zhi-Bin Gu, B.S. equivalent, Nanjing University, China
College of Engineering, Master of Science in Engineering, April, 1984, Chemical Engineering
add: Bruce William Pynnonen, B.S., (Chem.)
School of Public Health, Master of Science, April, 1984, Epidemiologic Sciences
add: Norma Irene Iglesias, B.A., Kalamazoo College




34


JULY MEETING, 1984


Master of Science in Engineering, April, 1984, Industrial & Systems Engineering
add: Feyrouz Hani Farah, B.S.E., (Indus.& Oper. E.)
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Master of Arts, April, 1984, Mathematics
delete: Alan Robert Carroll, B.A., Carlton College
School of Dentistry, Master of Science, April, 1984, Restorative Dentistry
delete: Richard Bengt Price, D.D.S., The Royal College of Surgeons of England
College of Engineering, Master of Science, April, 1984, Computer Information & Control
Engineering
delete:  Rong Chuan Xie, B.S. equivalent
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Master of Science, December, 1983, Geology
add: Alan Robert Carroll, B.A., Carlton College
Master of Science, February, 1962, Physics
add: David Miller Raybin, B.S., Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
University of Michigan - Dearborn
Master of Science in Engineering, April, 1984, Industrial and Systems Engineering
add: Morteza Anvari-Hamadani, B.S.E., M.S.E.
Law School
Master of Laws, LL.M., May 13, 1983
correct to show: Doron Boaz Levinson
Master of Laws, LL.M., December 21, 1983
delete: Alberto Javier Salas-Harms
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Art, December 20, 1983
add: Kimberly Lynn Bell
Brenda Kay Jurgenson
Melinda Marie Schultheis
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Adair L. St. Amour
Deborah Lee Balk
Debbie Lynn Bergman
Lindsay Bray
Joseph Henry Coyne
Angela Liat Deaver
Louis John Fintor
Lauren Anne Freeman
Anne Lucia Gallopoulos with High Distinction; Honors in English
Marlo Gibson
Dina Elizabeth Hirsch with High Distinction
Scott Gary Kashkin
Amy Kriser with High Distinction
Noah James Liberman with Distinction
Betty Mindy Levine with Distinction
Peter Joseph Mercurio
Alan E. Malayang
Alexander Elliott Miller
Neil Stuart Myres
Jane Hildy Pollner with High Distinction
Gregory David Salah
Laurie Susan Schnee
Jeannemarie Katherine Sierant
Greta Lynn Silver
James Anthony Smith
William Anthony Smith
Margaret Shawn Snell
Rayl Leigh Stepter with Distinction
Kathryn Lee Sutton with Highest Distinction; Honors in Linguistics
Elizabeth Patricia Sweeney with Honors in English
Noreen Trunsky
James David Villa with Honors in History




JULY MEETING, 1984


35


Peter Maclaughlan Bruce Wragg with Honors in English
Pamela Marie Wyess
Linda Jean Young
delete: Walter Lonworth Krell
Mark Richard Sendo
correct to show: Mitchell Peyser with Distinction; Highest Honors in Communication
add: Steven Douglas Biller with High Honors in Physics
Ronald Scott Lederman with Distinction
Christine Louise Webb
delete: Brant Michael Weinstein
correct to show: Jack Scott Folbe
Bailey Lock Lee with Highest Distinction; High Honors in Cellular and
Molecular Biology
David Lai Lee with Distinction; Honors in Cellular and Molecular Biology
Euisung Christine Lee with Distinction; Honors in Cellular and Molecular Biology
Bachelor in General Studies, December 20, 1983
add: John Michael Spicko
Earle Edward Weiss
Bachelor of Arts, August 19, 1983
add: Kathleen Ann Yale
Bachelor of Arts, April 29, 1983
correct to show: Marc Steven Mayerson with Highest Distinction; High Honors in Judaic
Studies
Bachelor of Science, April 29, 1983
correct to show: Larry Jay Rosenbery with Honors in Computer and Communication
Science
Bachelor of Arts, August 19, 1983
add: Melissa Sue Hill
School of Music
Master of Music, April 27, 1984
correct to show: Lynn Marie Peithman, B.M., Chamber Music (Cello)
School of Natural Resources
Bachelor of Science, April 28, 1984
delete: Gretchen Elizabeth Broman
Elizabeth Gibans
University of Michigan - Dearborn
School of Engineering, Bachelor of Science, April 28, 1984, Electrical Engineering
correct to show: Robert Loren Holzhauer, with Distinction
Paul Keith Hopkins, with Distinction
College of Arts, Science and Letters, Bachelor of Science, August 28, 1974
add: Pamela Leah Atkinson
Degrees Confirmed
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the May 1984 Commencement exercises for the Medical School.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1983, Replacement Resolution
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the following replacement resolution for the lost University of Michigan, Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series
1983, Coupon #1 from bonds #10346/47 and #14813/20. The motion was
seconded by Regent Dunn and adopted.




36


JULY MEETING, 1984


REPLACEMENT RESOLUTION
Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Regents of The University of Michigan held
at the Administration Building, Ann Arbor, Michigan on the 13th day of July 1984, at 9
o'clock A.M., local prevailing time.
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan have been duly authorized by Act
354, Public Acts of Michigan, 1972, as amended, to replace or authorize payment without
presentment of lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken bonds and other evidences of indebtedness
issued by the Board of Regents and any coupon representing interest thereon; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan have duly authorized and issued
certain bonds entitled University of Michigan, Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1983; and
WHEREAS, certain coupons of said bonds have been reported as lost, specifically being
coupon #1 of bonds numbered 10346/47 and 14813/20; (collectively hereinafter referred to as
the "coupons");
WHEREAS, William G. Allen claims to be the lawful owner of all rights, title and interest
in said coupons described in the preceding paragraph and has requested their replacement and
has offered to give the Regents of The University of Michigan adequate security against loss
arising out of said replacement and has agreed to pay all costs incurred in said replacement; and
WHEREAS, Comerica Bank-Detroit has been supplied with satisfactory proof of ownership
of the coupons and the circumstances surrounding their loss and has received an indemnification
bond in satisfactory form, indemnifying the Regents of The University of Michigan, and
Comerica Bank-Detroit.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Comerica Bank-Detroit is authorized to
replace the coupon for William G. Allen.
Housing Program Loans, Prepayment of
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the following resolution requesting the opportunity to prepay Housing Program Loans at a discount. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WHEREAS, the Board of Regents (the "Board") of the University of Michigan (the
"University") has issued the following issues of bonds (the "Bonds"):
$1,850,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Northwood Apartment Group III Revenue Bonds of 1957, Series B
$3,500,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Dormitory Revenue Bonds of 1957,
Series B (Markley Hall)
$1,250,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Dormitory and Apartment Revenue
Bonds - Oxford Housing 1962
$8,000,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Dormitory and Dining Hall Bonds,
Series 1965 (Vera Baits I and Bursley Hall)
$2,500,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Dormitory Bonds of 1966 (Vera Baits II)
$4,980,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Housing Energy Conservation Loan,
June 30, 1980
WHEREAS, portions or all of the Bonds were purchased and are currently held by the
United States Government; and
WHEREAS, the United States Department of Education (the "USDOE") has announced a
limited program authorizing colleges and universities to prepay such bonds at a discounted rate;
and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the University to take advantage of such program if
the program constitutes a savings to the University.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Investment Officer are hereby
authorized to negotiate and execute an agreement with the USDOE to take advantage of the
loan discount program either by prepaying and retiring the bonds or by purchasing the Bonds at
the discounted rate; provided, however, that they shall not enter into the program unless it
constitutes a savings to the University or is otherwise in the best interest of the University.




JULY MEETING, 1984


37


2. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Investment Officer are authorized, if required, to covenant that the housing projects will continue to be used for the
University's educational purposes.
3. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Investment Officer are authorized
to use such funds as are necessary to prepay or purchase the bonds at a discount; provided,
however, that any payment of cash therefor shall be made in anticipation of the issuance, if
permitted by law or regulation, of bonds or deficit financing.
4. All resolutions and parts of resolutions which conflict with the terms hereof are, to the
extend of such conflict, hereby repealed.
TEXTSET, Inc., Contract with
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to do business with
TEXTSET, INC., which is owned by part-time University employees. He
indicated that the firm has been working with the College of Engineering in
the development of its text setting capacity within the Apollo programs. At
the June meeting the Board approved a special consulting contract for the
College of Engineering involving David L. Rogers who is the head of
TEXTSET, INC., but neglected to add the other two principals. In accordance with the Conflict of Interest Act and to remedy a technical violation of
that Act, the Board is being asked at this time to approve the University's
contracting with TEXTSET, INC. which requires a two-thirds vote. Vice
President Brinkerhoff added that there was no direct competition with Ann
Arbor typesetters.
Regent Baker then moved to approve TEXTSET, INC. as a qualified
vendor to do business with the University under regular University Purchasing Department procedures. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was
adopted with Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander, Power, Roach,
Varner and Waters voting affirmatively.
Real Property
Regent Baker moved to accept Proposal 4 submitted by the First Martin
Corporation for the purchase of the Benz Building, 120-130 S. First Street,
Ann Arbor, Michigan from the University. Regent Dunn seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Dunn moved authorization to purchase real property at 1133 E.
Ann Street, Ann Arbor, for $135,000. Regent Power seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Kalmbach Management Center
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation to sell the
Kalmbach Management Center at 1735 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann Arbor. At
the request of the Board, language has been added to the deed which would
restrain the purchaser, his heirs, assign successors and interest, etc. from
using the property for any purposes and uses other than that provided by the
current zoning (R2B), and provides the University with the right of first
refusal to reacquire the property in the event the purchaser decided to change
the usage of the facility.
There was further discussion which included the maintenance of the
property during the summer, the tax advantages for private ownership, and
the deed restrictions.




38


JULY MEETING, 1984


Regent Baker then moved to accept Proposal 3 which was submitted by
Gary R. Crawford of Dearborn, Michigan, subject to Mr. Crawfords'
obtaining the necessary financing and City of Ann Arbor approvals. Regent
Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Brown commented that the sales agreement should not have a
restrictive covenant in the deed limiting the use of the property forever. He
said it was a zoning question and it should be left to the City of Ann Arbor
under their zoning ordinance. He then moved to amend the motion by
removing the restriction on occupancy from the sales agreement. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion, the amendment failed with Regents Baker,
Dunn, Nederlander, Power and Waters voting no.
President Shapiro called for the vote on the original motion by Regent
Baker. The motion was adopted with Regent Power voting no.
Dow Building-North Campus Instruction Center
Regent Roach moved to approve the revised budget and authorize the
award of contract to the low bidder, Fairview Construction Company of
Auburn Hills, Michigan, for Herbert H. Dow Building North Campus
Instruction Center. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations-Medical Science Buildings I and II
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Baker and adopted,
the Regents authorized the award of contract to Dale Krull Construction of
Ann Arbor, and approved the revised budget for the renovation of the
Medical Science I Building.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve proceeding with the project, as
described, to renovate the Medical Science II Morgue. The motion was
seconded by Regent Baker and adopted.
Central Energy Plant-UM-Flint
Regent Roach moved approval of the revised budget of $740,000 and
that the firm of Davanay Plumbing and Heating, Inc. be awarded the general
contract for the UM-Flint Central Energy Plant boiler installation and automation project. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Bylaw Revision: Section 11.17
The recommendation to repeal Regents' Bylaw Section 11.17, the School
of Natural Resources-Executive Committee, and the following proposed
new Section 11.17 be approved was moved by Regent Baker, seconded by
Regent Power, and adopted.
Sec. 11.17. The School of Natural Resources-Executive Committee. The Executive
Committee shall consist of the Dean and four members of the tenured professorial faculty to be
appointed by the Board of Regents on recommendation by the President. The appointed
members shall hold office for two years, and the terms shall be adjusted so that two will expire
each year. The appointed members shall be eligible for reappointment for one additional term
but shall not thereafter be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of two years. The
governing faculty is authorized to arrange for students, not more than two in number, selected
in accordance with procedures and for terms approved by the governing faculty, to participate
in meetings of the Executive Committee in an advisory capacity.




JULY MEETING, 1984


39


Medical Staff Membership Appointments
The Regents approved the recommendation for appointments to medical
staff membership.
Additions to Master List of Common Stock
Regent Baker moved to approve the addition of Ball Corporation, Nucor
Corporation and Wyman-Grodon Company common stock to the University's Master List of common stock. Regent Power seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
RHP, Adult General Hospital, Contracts Awarded
On a motion by Regent Nederlander, seconded by Regent Waters, and
adopted, the Regents approved the award of a construction contract for the
RHP, Adult General Hospital Project, Bid Package #11G-Air Systems
Balance to Barmatic Inspecting Company, Inc., Lincoln Park, Michigan.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the award of a construction contract for
the RHP, Adult General Hospital Project, Bid Package #l1K-Carpeting, to
the low bidder, United Carpet Installation, Inc., Troy, Michigan. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RHP, Ambulatory Care Facility, Contract Awarded
Regent Nederlander moved to approve a construction contract for the
RHP, Ambulatory Care Facility Project, Bid Package #4-Carpeting, to the
low bidder, United Carpet Installation, Inc., Troy, Michigan. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Communications System, AGH and ACF
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, and adopted,
the Regents authorized the appointment of Ellerbe Associates, Inc., Bloomington, Minnesota, as the architect/engineers for design, specification,
procurement support, and installation support of Owner furnished communications systems in the Adult General Hospital and the Ambulatory Care
Facility. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Radiology Information System, UM Hospitals
Regent Brown moved to approve the expenditure of up to $570,000 for
the procurement of a Radiology Information System for the University of
Michigan Hospitals. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Plant Services Building, UM-Dearborn
Regent Baker moved to approve the schematic design for the UMDearborn Plant Services Building, contingent upon similar approval of the
Joint Capital Outlay Subcommittee of the legislature and completion of
working drawings, a project budget. The final design will be brought to the
Regents for approval. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
S. Rinella, Leaving UM-Dearborn
Regent Baker commented on Vice Chancellor Sal Rinella's departure




40


JULY MEETING, 1984


from the UM-Dearborn. He offered the Board's congratulations on his new
efforts in California.
Deep Observation and Scientific Exploration of the Continental Crust,
Inc., Membership
Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology Membership
Regent Power moved to authorize membership in the Deep Observation
and Scientific Exploration of the Continental Crust, Inc. and the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology. Regent Nederlander seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
specified.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of June
totaled $1,782.43.
The next meeting of the Regents will be on September 20 and 21, 1984.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 20, 1984
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Power,
Roach, and Varner. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and Vice Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President Sussman, and
Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Nederlander
and Waters were absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order. He announced that the
order of business would be altered to allow Dr. George Zuidema, Vice
Provost for Medical Affairs, and Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Executive Director of
University of Michigan Hospitals, who were in attendance, to respond to
possible questions concerning the Medical Science Research Building II and
the University of Michigan Cardiovascular Fitness and Sports Medicine
Program.
Medical Science Research Building II
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the proposal for the facility to
house the Howard Hughes Medical Institute on the Medical Campus. The
recommendation suggests a facility of approximately the same proportions
as the Medical Science Research Building I, which is currently under
construction. This would meet the requirements not only for the programs
planned for the Hughes Institute, but also would provide the additional space
needed, that could not be accommodated in the Medical Science Research
Building I. He indicated that some of the floors in the two facilities would
be connected horizontally in order to achieve maximum involvement between the Medical School and the Hughes Medical Institute. The recommendation includes appointing the firm of Jickling Lyman and Powell Associates,
who successfully designed the facility currently under construction, as the
architect for the project.
Regent Power remarked that in her experience on the Board, this is
perhaps one of the most exciting gifts that the University has received
because of its enormous implications for the biological and health sciences.
She indicated that she was surprised that there was so little publicity about
the Institute and wondered what plans were underway to communicate to the
public the magnitude of this project.
Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that the contractual relationship
had been held up pending approval by the Board on this particular component of the project; therefore, the University is not the recipient of any grant
funds at this point in time. As soon as that occurs, public relations activities
will commence. He then reviewed the cost of the facility and the source of
the funding.
Regent Power moved to approve the project, as described, and the
41




42


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


appointment of Jickling, Lyman and Powell Associates, Inc. of Birmingham, Michigan as the architect. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Cardiovascular Fitness Program and Sports Medicine Program
Vice President Brinkerhoff then addressed the proposed establishment of
a University of Michigan Cardiovascular Fitness and Sports Medicine Program at Domino's Farms. He said that it was a unique opportunity to
increase the University's scope of programs in orthopedic surgery and
cardiovascular medicine which are currently in place within the hospital on a
smaller scale. The University has been involved in the details of some of the
issues that have been raised relating to the recommendation in order to move
the project through the Certificate of Need system. The University also
would be involved in the development of a lease with the Domino's people
to ensure an appropriate design for the facility contingent upon the Certificate of Need. The facility would have a substantial amount of space for
physical fitness, such as tracks and basketball courts, that would not be
included in the lease agreement, but would be availiable to the University at
no additional cost.
Dr. Zuidema indicated that this would be a joint project to be developed
between the department of surgery, including orthopedic surgery, and the
department of medicine, particularly cardiovascular medicine. Components
of the program would consist of sports injury prevention and rehabilitation
from injury, chronic disease and aging, and cardiovascular problems and
rehabilitation. It would serve as an important resource for athletic and fitness
programs throughout the state.
Regent Baker commented that all of those programs are available on
campus. What is the advantage of moving them away from the campus?
Dr. Zuidema remarked that the space on campus was inadequate to
accommodate a program of this scope. There are a number of facilities on
campus, however, that would be shared, for example, the cardiovascular
imaging facilities in radiology and nuclear medicine. Dr. Zuidema said that
there has been a great deal of interest in this kind of program and there has
been considerable demand for it.
Dr. Dalston responded to questions concerning the cost of the program and
the expectations for patient visits. The program will be under the direction
of the University and will be closely interrelated with Domino activities.
Regent Dunn moved approval to submit a Certificate of Need Proposal
to the State of Michigan for the development of a University of Michigan
Cardiovascular Fitness and Sports Medicine Program to be located in the
new Domino's Farms World Headquarters, and authority to sign a five-year
lease. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Financial Report, 1983-84
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the year end financial information
for 1983-84 and the report was received.
The University of Michigan financial statements for the years ending
June 1984 and 1983 which were reported by Price Waterhouse were reviewed by Vice President Brinkerhoff and adopted by the Regents.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


43


There followed a brief recess.
Budgets, 1984-85, All Three Campuses
Upon reconvening, Vice President Brinkerhoff referred to the operating
budgets for 1984-85. He indicated that the budget data that had been
provided in July had not included the interest incomes for the Hospitals. The
adjustment has been made under the auxiliary activity line and footnoted in
the action item presented at this time.
Vice President Brinkerhoff then reviewed the revenues and expenditures
by campus, and stated that they were all in accordance with the recommendations by Vice President Frye that had been approved by the Regents
during June and July. The key issue at this time with respect to the Ann
Arbor general fund budget is the fact that from an operational standpoint the
University anticipates greater expenditures than revenues by approximately
$1,400,000.
When asked why the University would adopt a budget which was not in
balance, Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that the decision to freeze the
tuition level for instate undergraduate students and the inability to accommodate to that through reductions of expenditures in this fiscal year caused the
imbalance. If the University is unable to make up some of the deficit this
year, the equity carried forward would be decreased.
Regent Roach indicated that in prior years the University had been able
to correct an imbalance by enforced savings or by some other alternative.
Unless there is a significant increase in revenues through enrollments,
interest, indirect cost, or expenditure savings, there would be no way to
avoid the deficit this year. The Regents were made aware of this when they
approved the budget in July, and he hoped that the University would operate
in this manner just this one time.
There was further discussion with respect to certain items in the budget.
Then Regent Roach inquired about the timing of the shift of the Department
of Humanities in Engineering to the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts.
Vice President Frye commented that the transition has taken place as far
as the closing of the department is concerned. The curriculum committee in
Engineering is in the process of revising the requirements for the humanities
program which must be consistent with the offerings in LS&A. The budgetary transfers that might result will be a phased process because the transitions of faculty are based upon the ability of the literary college to receive
individual members in appropriate departments.
Chancellor Jenkins and Chancellor Jones reviewed the 1984-85 budget
for the Dearborn and Flint campuses respectively and responded to questions.
Since there were no further questions, President Shapiro asked the
Regents to adopt the financial statements and to approve the revenue and
expenditure budgets.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the budgets for 1984-85 and Regent
Power seconded the motion. Regent Baker said that he was supportive of the
budget, but would vote against it because he was opposed to the principle of
a deficit budget.
There followed a brief recess.




44


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Robert Casad, student, on his residency status; Pat Beaubien,
student, Harry Walters, student, and Neil Wolf, Ann Arbor resident, on the
proposed student code; and John Belisle, Michigan resident, on his illegal
ban from the UM-Dearbom campus.
The meeting was recessed.
Friday, September 21, 1984
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, Vamer and Waters. Chancellor Jenkins, Chancellor Jones,
and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice
President Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were
present. Regent Brown was absent.
President Shapiro indicated that the meeting would commence with the
investment report.
Investment Report
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the investment report in some detail
and it was received by the Regents.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the July 12 and 13, 1984 meeting were incomplete.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his monthly reports on investment
transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations and the
replacement hospital program executive report.
Interim Vice President Sussman filed two monthly reports on grants and
contracts for research.
With respect to the investment report, Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that there were a large number of mortgages issued, but they were well
under the maximum number in terms of the mortgage program. The mortgage loans that were listed for large dollar amounts were the result of a
previous discussion between the Board and the executive committee of the
School of Business Administration which indicated that perhaps the ceiling
for these loans was not adequate to attract people to Ann Arbor.
Regent Baker said that the understood the need for providing mortgages
to these people, but he was apprehensive about the amount of a few of the
loans. He viewed the program more as one to assist with smaller mortgage
loans.
Regent Varner wondered why the University did not purchase more
bonds at this time, since the yield to maturity was substantially greater than
for stocks. It was explained that guidelines are set each February indicating




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


45


the desired balance between stocks and bonds. During the past year the
University has been buying bonds more heavily.
There were further questions with respect to the 30 year mortgage
policy. Would a shorter term policy be more appropriate? It was explained
that, in part, this was driven by some of the competitive forces in the market
place. However, experience indicates that the mortgages held by the University are paid off in an average of ten years. The mortgages are not assumable, but the owner can sell under terms of a land contract. About 8% of the
total portfolio is currently invested in mortgage loans, and at today's rates of
15% they make an attractive alternative for a ten-year investment.
President Shapiro indicated that the bulk of the University's mortgages
are very modest in size, but the administration will reassess the terms and
policies to determine whether it would be advisable to change the program
or to retain the current program.
Regent Roach commented that the program is not only an accommodation, particularly to those the University is attempting to attract, but it is also
a good portfolio investment. As long as it is safe, the University should not
try to narrow the program at this point.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Ann   Arbor   Area  Foundation,  Ann   Arbor;  for  support  of  the
Community Dentistry Program in the School of Dentistry fund............  5,000
Allied Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey; support for the School of Business
Administration Campaign, College of Engineering scholarships, the Macromolecular Research Center, and Employee Matching Gifts fund...........  81,445
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Assoclation, Chicago, Illinois; for
research  in  the  School of Nursing  fund...............................  6,000
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois; support for education and research in the Medical School fund......  25,114
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Dental
Research Institute and in the Medical School fund.......................  132,766
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.; for research in the Departments
of Chemical Engineering and Chemistry and in the Institute of Science and
Technology  fund..................................................  60,000
American Diabetes Association, Southfield; for research in the Medical School
fund............................................................   22,500
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the Medical
School  fund.....................................................  5,947
American Heart Association, Dallas, TX; for research in the Medical School
fund...........................................................    114,244
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing; for research in the Medical
School  fund....................................................  16,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, IL; for faculty grants in the Department of
Chemical Engineering  fund.........................................  20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, GA; for research in the Medical School fund.....  81,500
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for research in the Medical
School  fund......................................................  29,167
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids; for fellowships in the Department of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...................  10,000
Margaret M. Boutell, South Pasadena, Florida; for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical
Research  fund....................................................  10,000
Albert Bradley Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund................................. 5,000
Bundy Foundation, Detroit; for the Biological Station Lecture Hall and for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign fund...  6,250




46


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, NC; for research in the
Medical School fund..............................................   12,500
Bush Foundation, St. Paul, MN; research support of the Center for Research on
Learning and Teaching, and the College of Literature, Science and the Arts
fund............................................................  415,691
Mildred Butler, Sherwood, Oregon Litton Industries Inc., common stock; for the
President's fund...................................................  10,000
Carlson Foundation, Detroit; support for Swedish Language Studies in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..............................  5,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, IL; for research in the Medical School fund  12,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the
Medical School fund...............................................  66,201
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, New York, NY; support for research projects
in the Institute for Social Research and in the School of Public Health fund.  136,530
Clark Equipment Company, Buchanan; for the School of Business Administration
Associates  Program   fund............................................  5,000
Committee on Problems of Drug Dependence, Inc., Boston, MA; for research in
the Medical School fund...........................................  9,250
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Cooch, Ann Arbor; unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration  Campaign fund..............................  6,620
Cooper Industries Foundation, Houston, Texas; unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign fund............................  5,000
Coulter Electronics, Inc., Hialeah, FL; for research in the Medical School fund.  6,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.; for research in the School of
Library  Science  fund..............................................  72,884
Council for Tobacco Research-USA, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the
M edical  School fund...............................................  35,000
Adele C. Dendel Estate; for The University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute
fund............................................................   30,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland; for research in the Department of
Chemistry, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...............  31,000
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland; for the School of Business
Administration  Associates Program  fund..............................  5,000
Easter Seals Research Foundation, National Easter Seal Society, Chicago, IL; for
research  in  the Medical School fund..................................  22,313
Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Ernst & Whinney Professorship in the School of Business Administration fund...................  17,123
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, NY; for program support and fellowships in the School of Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts
fund............................................................   14,275
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor; support for the Library and the
Computer Center in the School of Business Administration Campaign, and for
the  C. S. M ott Hospital fund.......................................  5,030
Clinton B. Ford, Wilton, CT; support for the Department of Astronomy, College
of Literature, Science  and  the Arts fund..............................  10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, NY; research support for projects in the Center for
the Continuing Education of Women; the Institute for Social Research; the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts; and the Medical School fund....  653,067
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for construction in the College of Engineering, and Employee Matching Gifts fund............................  289,189
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the Automotive Transportation Center fund.  10,000
Foundation For Child Development, New York, NY; for research in the Center for
Human Growth and Development fund................................  28,952
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, CT; Employee Matching Gifts fund.....  10,011
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; support for the Department of Materials and
M etallurgical Engineering  fund......................................  5,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, NY; for research in the Department of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.............  9,000
GTE Service Corporation, Stamford, CN; Employee Matching Gifts fund......  5,590




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


47


Gulf Oil Foundation of Delaware, Pittsburgh, PA; for research and other support
in the Departments of Geological Sciences, and Industrial and Operations
Engineering  fund.................................................  21,812
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Beverly Hills, CA; for research in the Medical
School fund......................................................  16,162
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, CA; for research in the
School of Natural Resources, and in the Population Studies Center fund....  340,000
George Henry Hobart, Jr. Estate; for the Gifts Pending Designation Fund, and for
unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund..................  10,000
Hoover-NSK Bearing Company, Ann Arbor; for the Robotics Industrial AffiliatesProgram in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
fund...........................................................     20,000
Minnie Kempf Hosack Estate; for the Reuben Kempf Economics Professorship,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........................  25,000
Janssen Pharmaceutica, Piscataway, NJ; for research in the Medical School fund  8,400
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, NJ; for support of the Program in
Hospital Administration, School of Public Health fund...................  10,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, IL; for research in the School of Natural Resources
fund...........................................................     33,154
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, International, New York, NY; for research in the
Medical School fund...............................................  40,000
John Harvey Kellogg, M.D. Estate; endowed support of the School of Dentistry
fund............................................................   16,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for research in the Institute of Gerontology and in the School of Public Health fund...........................  369,753
Kenney-Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield; support for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation fund.....................  10,487
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; support for patient care activities of
The University of Michigan Hospitals fund.............................  15,034
Sonia Ladoff Estate; for scholarships in the Medical School fund.............  8,533
Y. K. Lee, Ann Arbor; for the School of Social Work fund.................  5,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the Medical
School  fund......................................................  54,000
Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Sunnyvale, CA; for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer  Science  fund.................................................  15,000
Lupus Society of the Arthritis Foundation, Toledo, OH; for research in the
M edical  School fund..............................................  5,000
Marathon Oil Company, Littleton, CO; for the Industrial Affiliates Program in
Chemical Engineering  fund.........................................  13,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, NY; for research projects
in the Center for Human Growth and Development, the Medical School and
the  School of Public  Health  fund.....................................  141,475
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Ann Arbor; for research in the Medical
School  fund......................................................  35,731
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, MO; for research and other support in
the  College  of Engineering  fund......................................  24,000
McGraw Foundation, Wheeling, IL; for the School of Business Administration
Associates  Program   fund...........................................  7,500
McGregor Fund, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund......................................  75,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for research support of the Medical School fund......  24,399
McKnight Foundation, Minneapolis, MN; for research in the Medical School
fund............................................................   33,334
Medtronic Energy Technology Division of Medtronic, Inc., Brooklyn Center, MN;
for research in the Department of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science
and  the  A rts  fund..................................................  10,000
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for research in the Medical School, and support
of the Eye-Bank Program in The University of Michigan Hospitals fund.....  30,492




48


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Milheim Foundation for Cancer Research, Denver, CO; for research in the Medical School fund...................................................  5,808
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, MN; for scholarships in the School of Business Administration, support for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and some Employee Matching
Gifts fund........................................................  10,355
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, NY; Employee Matching Gifts fund......  10,150
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint; research support for the Center for
Afro-American and African Studies and The University of Michigan-Flint,
Department of Education fund......................................  79,075
Ruth Mott Fund, Flint; for research in the Institute for Social Research fund....  20,334
Muscular Dystrophy Association, South Central Michigan Chapter, Lansing; for
research in the Medical School fund..................................  49,534
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, NY; for research
in The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural Sciences
fund...........................................................     14,362
National Foundation for Ileitis and Colitis, New York, NY; for research in the
Medical School fund..............................................   18,974
Harry M. Nelson Trust; for The University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute
fund............................................................    5,995
Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the Center
for Population Planning, School of Public Health fund...................  80,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Chicago, IL; for research in the
M edical  School  fund...............................................  5,663
Pew Memorial Trust, Philadelphia, PA; for research in the Department of Medical
Care Organization, School of Public Health fund........................  278,314
Philips International, BV, Eindhoven, Netherlands; for research in the School of
Business  Administration  fund.......................................  30,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, OH; support for programs in the School of
Business Administration; the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science
and the Arts; and the President's Office funds..........................  55,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust, Niles; for scholarships in the College of
Literature, Science  and  the Arts fund.................................  6,431
Research Corporation, New York, NY; research support for The University of
Michigan- Dearborn, College of Arts, Sciences and Letters fund..........  12,000
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the School of
Natural Resources  fund............................................  175,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, NY; research support for the Population
Studies Center, and the Institute for Social Research fund................  74,512
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, PA; unrestricted support for
the School of Business Administration Campaign, and some Employee Matching
G ifts  fund.......................................................  20,775
Rockwell International, Dallas, TX; for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science fund.........................  10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, NY; for research in the Population Studies
Center, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.................  41,500
Moses and Sophia Sigal Memorial Foundation, Grand Rapids; for the Studies in
R eligion  fund.....................................................  5,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, NY; for research in Biological Sciences,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........................  12,500
Margaret Earhart Smith Estate; for endowed support of the Center for the Continuing  Education  of W omen  fund.......................................  148,484
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the
M edical School fund...............................................  43,282
Helen Marcia Snyder Estate; Real property known as lot 26 of the Krapf Addition
to the City of Ann Arbor; support for the School of Music fund...........  64,400
Margaret and Herman Sokol, New York, NY; Milton Bradley Company, common
stock; for graduate fellowships in Chemistry fund.......................  13,036
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, IL; research support for the Institute for Social
Research  fund....................................................  116,250




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


49


Sperry Corporation Foundation, New York, NY; unrestricted support for the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund......................  8,300
Helmut F. Stem, Ann Arbor; for acquisitions in the Museum of Art fund......  8,800
System Development Foundation, Palo Alto, CA; for research in the Department
of Psychology, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........  98,750
Birge Swift Thompson Trust, New Haven, CT; for endowed scholarships in the
Medical School fund..............................................  5,308
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah; for research in the Department of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health fund...........................  14,439
Trans-Industries, Inc., Waterford; support for the Computer Center, School of
Business Administration Campaign fund..............................  5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; Employee Matching Gifts fund...........  5,532
Union Carbide Corporation, Birmingham; for the Automotive Transportation Center  fund.........................................................  5,000
Union Pacific Foundation, New York, NY; unrestricted support of the Geological
Sciences Campaign fund............................................  50,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation Inc., New York, NY;
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development, and the Medical
School fund......................................................  69,011
United Cerebral Palsy Association of Flint, Inc., Flint; for research in the Medical
School fund......................................................    5,500
United States Steel Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, PA; for research in the School of
N ursing   fund.....................................................  6,500
United States-Japan Foundation, New York, NY; research support for the Institute
of Labor and Industrial Relations, and the Japanese Studies Center fund....  48,776
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; support for the Medical School, the College of
Pharmacy, and Employee Matching Gifts fund.........................  17,474
Hubert W. VanDengen Estate; endowed student aid for the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, and the Department of Athletics fund...............  6,550
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northbrook, IL; for endowed discretionary support of
the  College  of Pharmacy  fund.......................................  474,375
Warfield Corporation, Southfield; for program support in the College of Architecture  and  Urban  Planning  fund........................................  10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor; fellowships for the College of Pharmacy fund............................  9,800
Weight Watchers Foundation, Manhasset, New York; for research in the Center
for Human Growth and Development fund.............................   6,525
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New
York; for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...  6,500
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill, PA; for research in the Medical School fund..  39,190
Herbert C. Wiley Estate; for the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project fund.....  7,011
World Health Organization, Zurich, Switzerland; for research in the College of
Pharmacy and in the School of Public Health fund......................  211,358
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, CN; support for the Library in the School of
Business Administration Campaign fund..............................  5,000
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey; for the Shady Trails Speech and Hearing
Camp, School of Education  fund....................................  22,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Augat, Inc., Mansfield, Massachusetts, Electronic circuitry components; for the
Dearborn Campus School of Engineering
General Motors Research Laboratories, Warren, An Electrovair experimental motor; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
James H. Graves, Grosse Pointe, A Brunswick, slate pool table and accompanying
equipment; for the Dearborn Campus Recreation and Organization Center
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado, An upgrade of an Hewlett
Packard 64000 System; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science




50


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


International Business Machines Corporation, Kingston, New York, Electronic
components; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Invocare Corporation, Ann Arbor, A Rolls IV, adult wheelchair; for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Maxine W. Kunstadter Estate, 19 items from the Kunstadter Collection; for the
Museum of Art
Raymond Corporation, Greene, New York, A tilting platform table system; for the
Transportation Research Institute
Ronald Teigen Estate, Approximately 91 books and journals; for the Sharfman
Economics Library
A. Paul and Ellen G. Victor, Rye, New York, Stephen Edlich's "Hommage a
Miro"; for the Museum of Art
WWJ, Southfield, 20,000 to 30,000 items from the Station's Broadcast Music
Library (1920's to 1950's); for the University of Michigan Library
An additional 23 gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value, were received
from the following 22 donors:
George E. and Anne R. Amendt, Ann Arbor
Donald W. Angell, Ann Arbor
Harold E. Arnett, Ann Arbor
Anthony Bates, Linden
Lars Bjorn, Ann Arbor
J. Robert Cairns, Dearborn Heights
William V. Caldwell, Flint
Campbells Paint and Wallpaper, Dearborn
Randolph Cooper, Ann Arbor
Dr. and Mrs. Virgil Cope, Flint
Delf Dodge, Warren
Dorothy Fairhead, Dearborn
Mr. and Mrs. Marvin L. Finegold, Farmington Hills
E. J. McClendon, Plymouth
Evelyn Mirock, Plymouth
Paul Purcell, Saginaw
Alice Schlimmer, Ann Arbor
Jean Paul Slusser Estate
Robert J. Starring, Ann Arbor
Various Donors
Gregory L. Waters, Flint
Steve Webb, Ann Arbor
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the Medical
School fund.....................................................       15,130
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the
Institute of Gerontology fund........................................  19,000
American Heart Association, Dallas, TX; for research in the Medical School and
the Clinical Research Center of The University of Michigan Hospitals fund..  57,282
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield; for research and research
fellowships in  the Medical School fund................................  24,334
American Lung Association, New York, NY; for research in the Medical School
fund............................................................      15,000
American Natural Resources Company, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund......................  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund.  9,875
Bechtel Foundation, San Francisco, CA; for discretionary support of the College
of Engineering  fund................................................   16,200
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, PA; for the Law School fund.............  5,000
CACHE Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah; for the Computer Aids for Chemical
Engineering Education fund........................................    5,000




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


51


Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation, Grand Rapids; for neurological research in the
Medical School fund...............................................  10,000
Chevron Oil Field Research Company, La Habra, CA; for the Industrial Affiliates
Program in the Department of Chemical Engineering fund................  13,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the
Medical School fund...............................................  15,260
Council for Chemical Research, Inc., Allentown, PA; for research in the Departments of Chemical Engineering and Chemistry fund.....................  7,038
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, NY; for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute fund.........................................  5,000
William H. Donner Foundation, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the Institute
of Public Policy  Studies fund........................................  21,225
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland; for East Asian Studies in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........................  15,000
Edgewood Tool and Manufacturing Company, Taylor; for the President's fund..  6,000
Evening News Association, Detroit; for the Journalists in Residence Program of
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.....................  5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, NY; for faculty assistance and fellowships in the College of Engineering; fellowships in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts; and the Employee Matching Gifts fund..............  101,950
Flint Area Health Foundation, Flint; for support of The University of MichiganFlint Physical Therapy  Program   fund..................................  15,000
Martin R. Goldman, Bloomfield Hills; for Athletic Scholarships fund..........  15,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, NY; for research in the Medical
School  fund......................................................  18,900
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; Employee
M atching  Gifts  fund...............................................  33,751
IC Industries, Inc., Chicago, IL; for unrestricted support of the Business Administration  Cam paign  fund.............................................  8,775
Instruments S. A., Inc., Metuchen, NJ; for support of the Solid State Electronics
Laboratory in the College of Engineering fund..........................  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Kidston, Hinsdale, IL; IBM Corporation common stock;
for the Geological Sciences Campaign, College of Literature, Science and the
A rts  fund........................................................  10,487
Gerald Knight, Ann Arbor; for scholarships in history, in the College of Literature, Science  and  the  Arts  fund......................................  15,000
Kroc Foundation, Santa Barbara, CA; for research in the Medical School fund..  21,933
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, IN; for fellowships in the College of Pharm acy   fund.......................................................  65,000
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Burbank, CA; for fellowships and other support in the
College  of Engineering  fund.........................................  15,000
Agnes C. McCay Estate; for research support of the Medical School fund......  7,764
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, NY; for research in the Center for
Russian and East European Studies, College of Literature, Science and the Arts
fund............................................................  200,000
Methodist Children's Home Society, Detroit; for the School of Social Work fund  35,000
Michigan Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, Inc., Kalamazoo; for fellowships in the Medical School fund......................  35,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
research and other support of the Transportation Research Institute fund.....  196,750
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New York, NY; for
student aid in the College of Engineering  fund..........................  12,782
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor; for research in the
Medical School and the College of Pharmacy funds......................  19,561
Nelson Research, Irvine, California; for research in the College of Pharmacy
fund............................................................    6,250
Mr. and Mrs. Thorn Pendleton, Warren, OH; Cowles Broadcasting, Inc., common
stock; for endowed student aid in history, in the College of Literature, Science
and  the  A rts  fund..................................................  12,506




52


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Preservation Council, Santa Barbara, CA; for the Studies in Religion fund, College of Literature, Science and the Arts...............................  24,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio; for fellowships in the College of
Engineering  fund..................................................  11,300
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Springfield, MA; for scholarships
in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine, and the College of Pharmacy
fund s............................................................  13,34 5
Mr. and Mrs. Francis E. Ross, Grand Cayman Island, British West Indies; for the
Paton Accounting Scholarships in the School of Business Administration
fund............................................................      5,020
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, NY; for research in the Population Studies
Center, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.................  5,180
Audra C. Smith, Lorain, OH; for the President's fund......................  10,000
Spina Bifida Association of America, Chicago, IL; for research in the Medical
School fund...................................................    5,000
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas; for the Industrial Affiliates Program in the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science fund..........  10,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., New York,
NY; for research in the Medical School fund...........................  19,659
USV Pharmaceutical Corporation, Revlon Health Care Group, Tuckahoe, NY; for
research in the Medical School fund..................................  5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for fellowships in the College of Engineering,
research in the College of Pharmacy and Employee Matching Gifts funds....  13,975
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill, PA; for research in the Medical School fund..  44,185
Zenith Radio Corporation, Melrose Park, IL; for research support of the Center for
Ergonomics, College of Engineering fund..............................  15,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Mr. and Mrs. W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor Six Nineteenth century Albumen print
photographs; for the Museum of Art
Intel Corporation, Southfield Workstation upgrades, software and other system
support; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Mrs. Angel Reyes, Ann Arbor Approximately 450 Items from the personal music
library of Professor Angel Reyes; for the School of Music
Stadium Boot Shop, Ann Arbor 210 pairs of children's orthopedic shoes; for The
University of Michigan Hospitals
An additional 15 gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value, were received from
the following 15 donors:
Action Products, Inc:, Hagerstown, Maryland
Archer, Kenney and Wilson, Dearborn
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
J. Robert Cairns, Dearborn Heights
WIlliam L. Cash, Jr., Ann Arbor
Elizabeth Crowell, Dearborn
John Darin, Allen Park
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
Ruth Hurkett, Warren
Walter S. Jones, Annapolis, Maryland
Janis Lamey, Onsted
Archie K. Lytel, IV, Redford
Dr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Schnitzer, Ann Arbor
Enrico Vespa, Dearborn
Seth M. Wigderson, Highland Park
Vice President Cosovich filed his monthly report on the Office of
Development and University Relations.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


53


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Harry B. Benford, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Engineering
Olin L. Browder, Jr., Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Law School
Richard B. Couch, Professor Emeritus, appointed to conduct research in the College of
Engineering, July 1, 1984
Cameron B. Countrey, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Mathematics Department,
UM-Flint, Fall term, 1984
Jerry M. Crumley, M.S., Chairman, Navy Officer Education Program, for a three-year term,
July 19, 1984
Reed O. Dingman, Professor Emeritus, reappointed to active status in the Department of
Surgery, July 1, 1984
Stephen R. Gerlach, M.A., Chairman, Army Officer Education Program, for a three-year term,
August 6, 1984
David J. Groisser, Ph.D., appointed the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of
Mathematics
Joseph E. Hawkins, Jr., Professor Emeritus, reappointed to active status in the Department of
Otorhinolaryngology, October 1, 1984 to December 31, 1984 and June 1, 1985 to August
31, 1985
Samuel P. Hicks, Professor Emeritus, reappointed to active status in the Department of
Pathology, July 1, 1984
M. Kent Jennings, Ph.D., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, also appointed Research
Scientist in the Institute for Social Research, July 1, 1984
David E. Kieras, Ph.D., Associate Professor, with tenure, Department of Humanities in the
College of Engineering
James W. Knight, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, without
tenure
Ken'ichi Kuga, Ph.D., the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics
John E. Mantei, M.S., M.A., Chairman, Air Force Officer Education Program, for a three-year
term, August 10, 1984
Fred Morady, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, July 1, 1984
William B. Palmer, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a faculty counselor in the Department of
Economics
Marion Perlmutter, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Research
Scientist in the Institute of Gerontology, January 1, 1985
Dennis Rigan, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the School of Education, Fall term,
1984
James H. Robertson, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the Residential
College, Fall term, 1984
Flumo Y. Stevens, Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure,
UM-Flint
Sharon E. Sutton, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Architecture
John Malcolm Swales, B. Sc., Acting Director of the English Language Institute, September 1,
1984; also appointed Visiting Professor of Linguistics, January 1, 1985
D. Emerick Szilagyi, Clinical Professor Emeritus, reappointed to active status in the Department of Surgery at Henry Ford Hospital, July 1, 1984
Kenneth E. Vance, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the School of Library Science
Arne van der Gen, Ph.D., appointed the Visiting Netherlands Professor of Chemistry
Frederick H. Wagman, Professor Emeritus, reappointed to teach in the School of Library
Science, Fall term, 1984
Maxine Weinstein, Ph.D., appointed the Mellon Assistant Professor of Sociology




54


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Daniel E. Atkins, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, reappointed as Associate
Dean, College of Engineering, July 1, 1984
Marvin B. Becker, Professor of History, appointed to the Richard Hudson Research Professorship in History, Academic year, 1984-85
Gunnar Birkerts, Professor of Architecture, appointed the Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-InResidence Professor, College of Architecture and Urban Planning
James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, appointed Professor of
Business Administration, without tenure
John C. Catford, Professor of Linguistics, appointed Chairman of the Department of Linguistics
Bruce Chin, Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, appointed Assistant
Dean for Student Affairs, School of Public Health
Richard M. Dougherty, Professor of Library Science, reappointed Director of the University
Library, July 1, 1984
John W. Eadie, Professor of History, appointed Interim Associate Dean of the Graduate School
Peter R. Gluck, Professor of Political Science, reappointed as the Acting Provost and Vice
Chancellor for Academic Affairs, UM-Flint, July 1, 1984
Yeheskel Hasenfeld, Professor of Sccial Work and Professor of Sociology, also appointed
Associate Dean in the School of Social Work
Morton S. Hilbert, Professor of Environmental Health and Director, Institute of Environmental
and Industrial Health, reappointed Chairman of the Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health, July 1, 1985
Swatantra K. Kachhal, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, reappointed
Acting Chairman of Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Yale Kamisar, reappointed Henry King Ransom Professor of Law
James A. McNamara, Jr., Professor of Anatomy and Research Scientist in the Center for
Human Growth and Development, also appointed Professor in the School of Dentistry, with
tenure, July 1, 1984
Helen Joan Morley, Associate Professor of Linguistics, appointed Acting Director of the
English Language Institute
Tsung Y. Na, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, appointed the William E. Stirton Professor
in Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Ralph P. Nichols, Assistant to the Vice President for Academic Affairs, appointed Assistant
Vice President for Academic Affairs
Alan R. Price, Assistant Vice President for Research and Associate Professor of Biological
Chemistry, appointed Interim Associate Vice President for Research
John W. Reed, Professor of Law, appointed Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law
Sally Ann Sample, Associate Director of Nursing, University Hospital, and Lecturer of
Nursing, School of Nursing, reappointed as Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs of the
School of Nursing
Michael A. Savageau, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, appointed Acting Chairman
of Microbiology and Immunology, August 1, 1984
Tessie M. Sharp, Assistant Professor of Social Work, Assistant to the Chancellor and Affirmative Action Coordinator, appointed Acting Dean for Student Services, UM-Flint
Scott K. Simonds, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, appointed Assistant
Dean for Curriculum, School of Public Health
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, appointed Interim Department Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearbom
James R. Taylor, appointment as Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of Marketing, extended to
June 30, 1985
Hal R. Varian, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Finance, without tenure,
appointed as the Reuben Kempf Professor of Economics, October 1, 1984
Lawrence W. Waggoner, Professor of Law, appointed the James V. Campbell Professor of Law
Martin King Whyte, Professor of Sociology, appointed Director for the Center for Research on
Social Organizations, July 1, 1984




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


55


Committee Appointments
The following committee appointments were approved:
Medical School Executive Committee
Dr. Harold A. Oberman for a three-year term, effective September 1, 1984 vice Dr. Raymond
Ruddon, term expired
Dr. Robert P. Kelch, for a three-year term, effective September 1, 1984 vice Dr. Charles J.
Krause, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Professor William G. Moller, Jr., to complete term, through June 30, 1986, vice Professor
Donald Parker, resigned from the University
Professor Leland J. Quackenbush, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, effective July 1,
1984
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Professor Kenneth J. Polakowski, for a one-year term, effective July 1, 1984
Professor William B. Stapp, for a one-year term, effective July 1, 1984
Professor Jonathan W. Bulkley, for a two-year term, effective July 1, 1984
Associate Professor James S. Diana, for a two-year term, effective July 1, 1984
Institute of Gerontology Executive Committee
Dr. June E. Osborn, to complete term, through December 31, 1985, vice Dr. John P. Kirscht,
Acting Dean
Alumni Association Budget and Finance Committee
Vice President James F. Brinkerhoff, to succeed himself, for a one-year term, effective
September 1, 1984
Professor Cedric V. Fricke, to succeed himself, for a one-year term, effective September 1,
1984
Professor C. James Pilcher, to succeed himself, for a one-year term, effective September 1,
1984
Computing Center Executive Committee
Professor John A. Jacquez, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor Brice
Carnahan, term expired
Professor L. Ridgway Scott, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor A.
Rees Midgely, term expired
Museum of Art Executive Committee
Professor Raymomd Grew, to succeed himself, for a one-year term, effective July 1, 1984
Professor J. Graham Smith, for a two-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor
Christine V. Bornstein, term expired
Professor Vincent Castagacci, for a two-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor
Mignonette Cheng, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences and Letters Executive Committee
Associate Professor Richard O. Straub, for a three-year term, effective September 1, 1984
UM-Division of Education Executive Committee
Professor Jane A. Romatowski, for a three-year term, effective September 1, 1984, vice
Associate Professor Mary Trepanier, term expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Mr. Herbert Boldt, appointed for a four-year term
Dr. Raffic A. Mackie, appointed for a four-year term
Mr. Claude W. Mickle, appointed for a four-year term
Mr. Harry E. Lester, appointed for a four-year term
Leaves of Absence
The Regents approved a research leave of absence for Edith Claire Morrison, Assistant
Professor and Associate Research Scientist in the Dental School; extensions of leaves for F.
Thomas Farrell, Professor of Mathematics, Dale H. Peterson, Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Norman Starr, Professor of Statistics; and extensions of personal leaves for David G.
Dickinson, M.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, and John W. Keyes,
Jr., M.D. Professor of Radiology.




56


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Named Professorships Established
The Regents approved the establishment of two named professorships: The Thomas S.
Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Professorship and the Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Professorship in Architecture.
Collegiate Professorships Established
The Regents also approved the establishment of three collegiate professorships: the Reuben
Kempf Professorship of Economics and the James B. and Grace J. Nelson Visiting Professorships of Philosophy.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Terry A. Allen, Ph.D., History of Art
Andrew A. Anderson, D. Phil., Spanish
Kathryn M. Anderson-Levitt, Ph.D., Anthropology, UM-Dearborn
Adolph J. Ayala, Ed.D., Bilingual Education, UM-Flint
Avraham Balaban, Ph.D., Near Eastern Studies
Eshel Ben Jacob, Ph.D., Physics
Paul A. Boghossian, M.A., Philosophy
Richard J. Brazee, M. Econ., Natural Resources
Mary K. Burke, M.F.A., Theatre and Drama
Juan R. Cole, Ph.D., History
Robert Cole, A.A. Diploma, Architecture and Urban Planning
Kevin J. Compton, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Glenn W. DeYoung, Jr., M.F.A., Dance
Lorenzo A. DiCarlo, Jr., M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Ricardo E. Duque, M.D., Pathology, July 1, 1984
James H. Ellis, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1984
William L. Eschenbecher, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Jessica K. Fogel, M.A., Dance
Norman L. Foster, M.D., Neurology, July 1, 1984
James S. Freudenberg, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
William H. Frey, Ph.D., Sociology
Svend O. Freytag, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry, July 1, 1984
William G. Gardiner, Ph.D., Marketing and Management, UM-Flint
Michael Gordon, Ph.D., Computers and Information Systems
Kathryn Gravdal, Ph.D., French
Gary A. Hawes, Ph.D., Political Science
Alfred 0. Hero, III, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Catalina Herrerias, M.S.W., Social Work
Gretchen M. Hill, Ph.D., Nutrition
Carol A. Jones, Ph.D., Natural Resources and Economics
Margaret F. Kahn, Political Science, UM-Flint
Jennifer A. Kitchell, Ph.D., Geological Sciences, also holds title Assistant Curator, Museum of
Paleontology, August 1, 1984
Paul Kuang-Hsien Lin, Ph. D., Mathematics, UM-Dearbor
Jessica D. Litman, J.D., Law
Carol Loveland-Cherry, Ph.D., Nursing
Scott E. Masten, Ph.D., Business Economics
Jeffrey A. Miron, Ph.D., Economics
Leslie P. Moch, History, UM-Flint
Melvin L. Morganroth, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Linda E. Neagley, Ph.D., History of Art, August 1, 1984




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


57


Bernard O. Palsson, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
William H. Pearson, Ph.D., Chemistry, August 1, 1984
Vincent L. Pecoraro, Ph.D., Chemistry
Marc Peters-Golden, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Jeffrey J. Prentis, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Ravi Rao, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Bruce A. Richardson, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Flint
Daniel Richter, Jr., Ph.D., Natural Resources, August 1, 1984
Marc C. Riske, M.F.A., Theatre and Drama
Lois M. Rosen, Ph.D., English, UM-Flint
Lisa Sattenspiel, Ph.D., Anthropology
Melita C. Schaum, Ph.D., Rhetoric and English Composition, UM-Dearborn
Hans M. Schneeberger, Ph.D., Policy and Control
Aileen B. Sedman, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1984
Faye L. Silverstein, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1984
Peter D. Sparling, B.F.A., Dance
B. Grant Stitt, Ph.D., Sociology and Anthropology, UM-Flint
Valerie Y. Suslow, Ph.D., Business Economics
James D. Taylor, J.D., Management, UM-Dearborn
Demosthenis Teneketzis, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
David H. Tillev, M.P.H., Mental Health Administration, Psychiatry
Kathryn W. Tosney, Ph.D., Bioiogical Sciences
John L. Volakis, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Kay. H. Vydareny, M.D., Radiology
R. Brent Wagner, M.S., Music
Doreen A. Weinberger, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Jane A. Weintraub, D.D.S., M.P.H., Community Health Programs, August 13, 1984
Mark J. Young, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Instructor
Nancy P. Allen, Ph.D., Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Donald E. Barker, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Ross S. Benger, M.B.B.S., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1984
Denise Charron-Prochownik, M.S.N., Nursing
Robert L. Cohen, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Mark A. Dalpra, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1984
Dale K. Dedrick, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Mary K. East, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Michael G. Gabel, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1984
Fred M. Hankin, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Angelena M. Ho, M.B.B.S., Radiology, July 1, 1984
Ken K. Ito, M.A., Japanese Language and Literature
Kevin B. Kerber, M. D., Psychiatry, August 1, 1984
Ian M. Lande, M.D., Radiology, July 16, 1984
Judith K. Mickelson, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Gordon M. Nakano, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Richard P. O'Connor, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Michael H. Otto, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Peter P. Passamani, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1984
William A. Phillips, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Murray Rebner, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1984
Gail Ann Rickert, M.A., Greek and Latin
Shawn D. Ripley, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 17, 1984
Leslie L. Rocher, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
David A. Rosen, M.D., Anesthesiology, August 1, 1984
Kathleen R. Rosen, Anesthesiology, August 1, 1984
Mark P. Rudow, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 9, 1984
Kim L. Scheppele, M.A., Political Science
Mark J. Skalski, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Marilyn Solsky, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984




58


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Vikki A. Stefans, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 15, 1984
Marc J. Tuchman, M.D., Anestheslology, July 1, 1984
Joyce Ann Wahr, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1984
Thomas W. Wakefield, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Lawrence Walny, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1984
Daniel G. Walsh, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Gail M. White, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1984
Alan B. Williams, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Lecturer
Thomas A. Bloom, M.A., Theatre, UM-Flint
Cheryl A. Breitenbach, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 7, 1984
Thomas A. D'Aunno, B.A., Hospital Administration
Cecilia E. Dawkins, Ph.D., Nursing
Barbara A. Dicks, M.P.H., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
Lee D. Gorsky, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry
David C. Gorsulowsky, M.D., Dermatology, July 9, 1984
Richard T. Helleloid, M.B.A., Accounting
Marlys G. Lipe, M.B.A., Accounting, July 1, 1984
Robert C. Lipe, M.B.A., Accounting
Elizabeth A. Malirowski, M.S., Biology, UM-Flint
Poppy L. McLeod, M.A., Organization Behavior and Industrial Relations
Harry A. Newman, M. S., Accounting
Christopher P. Puto, M.B.A., Marketing
Thomas G. Robins, M.D., M.P.H., Occupational Medicine
Antonio J. Rodriguez, M.A., Finance, UM-Flint
John D. Severin, M.D., Family Practice, July 1, 1984
Aysenur Unal, M.Sc., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Janet K. VanValkenburg, Ph.D., Residential College
Visiting Professor
Jean Marie Aran, Ph.D., Otorhinolaryngology, July 16, 1984
Vasant P. Bhapkar, Ph. D., Biostatistics
Roger C. Cramton, J.D., Law
Linda Dykstra, Ph.D., Pharmacology
Walter J. Gensler, Ph.D., Chemistry
Daniel J. Gifford, J.S.D., Law
Reuven Kami, D.Sc., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Ellen J. Laing, Ph.D., History of Art
Roger C. Park, J.D., Law
Jerome H. Rose, M. S., Music
Steven H. Shiffrin, J.D., Law
Kaichi Shimura, Ph.D., International Business, July 1, 1984
Aaron D. Twerski, J.D., Law
Piotr P. Wolanski, M.E., Aerospace Engineering, May 16, 1984
Visiting Associate Professor
Winthrop L. Adams, Ph.D., History
N. Soren M. Blomquist, Ph.D., Economics, July 1, 1984
F. Neeley Bruce, D.M.A., Music
Gunter Dehe, Dr.Rer. Nat., Chemistry, July 1, 1984
Andreas Fischer, Ph.D., English Language and Literature, August 1, 1984
Wendy J. Gordon, J.D., Law
William G. Graziano, Ph.D., Psychology
Keith A. Houghton, M.Sc., Accounting
Sandra Kungle, D.M.A., Music
Dan L. LeMahieu, Ph.D., History
William 1. Miller, J.D., Law
Ruth S. Scodel, Ph.D., Greek and Latin
James C. Turner, Ph.D., History
Patricia D. White, J.D., Law
Yoshiaki Yamada, D.D.S., Ph.D., Dentistry, June 4, 1984




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


59


Visiting Assistant Professor
Peter Chalos, Ph.D., Accounting
William J. Floyd, Ph.D., Mathematics, June 1, 1984
Betsy Foxman, Ph.D., Epidemiology
Adela J. Gondek, Ph.D., Political Science
Gene K. Mapes, Ph.D., Biological Sciences, August 1, 1984
Robert E. McCoy, D.M. A., Music
Antonio Z. Sanvicente, Ph.D., Finance, August 1, 1984
Kenneth T. Trotman, Ph.D., Accounting
Visiting Instructor
Onelio Geath, M.D., Internal Medicine, May 2, 1984
Visiting Lecturer
Shimin Li, Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Adjunct Professor
Bernard L. Griswold, Ph.D., Natural Resources, August 1, 1984
Adjunct Associate Professor
Judith L. Elkin, Ph.D., History
Susan S. Lipschutz, Ph.D., Philosophy
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Beverly C. Ashton, Ph.D., Division of Education, UM-Dearborn, July 3, 1984
Thomas J. Mangner, Ph.D., Medicinal Chemistry, July 1, 1984
Lister M. Matheson, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Joseph P. Pickett, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Guity M. Rabbani, D.M.D., D.D.S., Dentistry, June 11, 1984
Richard D. Snyder, J.D., Accounting
Carol D. Spengler, Ph.D., Nursing
Bennie M. Stovall, Ph.D., Social Work
Donn P. Werling, Ph.D., Divison of Education, UM-Dearborn
Adjunct Instructor
Margaret M. Jacobs, M.S.N., Nursing
Adjunct Lecturer
Cynthia E. Breisch, B.A., Interdisciplinary Studies, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1984
Mantin J. Burke, M.A., History
Geoffrey C. Howes, A.M., Residential College
Brenda P. Imber, M.A.E.D., English Language Institute, July 1, 1984
Dorothy P. Jenkins, M.S.N., Nursing
Julie F. Moss, M.S.W., Women's Studies Program
Delores M. Moyer, M.S.W., Nursing
Margaret V. Nielsen, M.S., Education, UM-Flint, July 1, 1984
Carol A. Polanski, B.A., Interdisciplinary studies, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1984
Emet D. Schneiderman, M.A., Dentistry, June 1, 1984
Eva Stahlheber, M.A., English Language and Literature
Jonathan Tyman, M.A., Film and Video Studies
Kathryn Vangen, M.A., Program in American Culture
Kathleen A. Zoppi, M.P.H., Communication
Clinical Associate Professor
Katherine W. Dryland-Vig, D'Orth., Dentistry, May 1, 1984
Chang Yooh Lee, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1984
Edward B. Lewin, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1984
Richard L. Prager, M.D., Surgery, May 1, 1984
Clinical Assistant Professor
David F. Boden, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984
Robert H. Burke, D.D.S., M.D., Dentistry, May 1, 1984
Ramon Del Busto, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Laurie R. Fleisher, D.M.D., Dentistry, August 27, 1984
Nicholas J. Gersch, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984




60


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Thomas M. McLean, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984
Sylvia Ross, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984
Eugene J. Tilchen, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Clinical Instructor
Ross W. Anderson, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984
William B. Anderson, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1984
Scott G. Bassett, J.D., Law, August 20, 1984
Fredric L. Bonine, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984
Barbara S. Caruthers, M.D., Family Practice, July 1, 1984
Robert G. Deeter, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Adejoke A. Fatunde, M. S., Dentistry, June 1, 1984
Donald M. Foxworthy, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Richard J. Gardner, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1984
Janis J. Hayward, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1984
William C. Keimig, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Stephen M. Kovarik, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1984
Candace A. Lawrenz, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Christopher J. Maksym, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Andrea F. Mames, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Norman P. Markowitz, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1984
Emory S. Moore, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Bryant W. Pierce, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Sally L. Rajchel, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1984
Carl M. Reinke, Pharm. D., Pharmacy
Robert J. Schott, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1984
Naimah Weinberg, M.D., Psychiatry, August 13, 1984
Mary Jane Young, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 1, 1984
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Siraj N. Alseri, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology
Oscar A. Barbarin, III, Assistant Professor of Pyschology, also appointed Assistant Professor
of Social Work
Marjorie C. Becker, Assistant Dean for Allied Health Programs and Assistant Professor of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, and Assistant Personnel Director/
Personnel Administration, also appointed Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing
Allan G. Clague, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Electroencephalography
C. William Colburn, Associate Professor of Communication, with tenure, also appointed
Adjunct Associate Professor of Law, History and Communications, School of Business
Administration and Assistant Director of the Alumni Association
Sandra S. Cole, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Adjunct Associate Professor of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation
Francis S. Collins, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, also appointed Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, July 1, 1984
Robert B. DiGiovanni, from Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Technical Communication, July 11 1984
Ananias C. Diokno, from Professor, with tenure, to Clinical Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1984
Paul A. Green, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, also
appointed Adjunct Assistant Professor of Art
Kristina D. Hansen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, UM-Flint
Michael L. Hantzmark, from Lecturer in Business Economics and Instructor in Economics to
Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Assistant Professor of Economics
Lawrence P. Hurst, from Associate Dean and Professor, with tenure, to Professor of Music,
with tenure
Jenny R. James, from Instructor and Clinical Director of Nursing to Adjunct Instructor of
Nursing and Clinical Director of Nursing
Barbera R. Jones-Yoder, from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


61


Herbert L. Malinoff, from Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July
1, 1984
Harold Y. McCulloch, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin to Adjunct Assistant
Professor of Greek and Latin, also appointed Associate Director of the Honors Program
Andrew W. Mead, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Music
Gordon P. Moore, from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Biological
Sciences
Virginia S. Nelson, Instructor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, and from Lecturer to
Adjunct Lecturer in the Community Health Programs, July 1, 1984
Robert A. Norum, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine
Edward L. Parmentier, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Music
Timothy N. Pickens, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, July
1, 1984
John Popovich, Jr., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Marvin J. Roberson, from Vice-Chancellor and Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint, to
Executive Assistant to the Vice President for Development and University Relations and
Director of Corporate Relations
Hasan N. Seyhun, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance
Edward A. Snyder, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Economics
Frederic J. Svoboda, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of English, UM-Flint
Priscilla Z. Tauss, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
John M. McCray, Dean for Student Affairs, UM-Flint, June 28, 1984
Salvatore D. Rinella, Vice Chancellor and Director of Business Affairs and Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn, August 3, 1984
Lee Sechrest, Director, Center for Research in Utilization of Scientific Knowledge, Professor,
with tenure, Medical Care Organization and Institute for Social Research, and Professor
of Psychology, without tenure, July 31, 1984
Charles H. Tilly, Director, Theodore M. Newcomb Professor of Social Science, with tenure,
and Professor, without tenure, Center for Research on Social Organization, Sociology
and History, August 31, 1984
Professor
William D. Coats, Education, August 31, 1984
William R. Folk, Biological Chemistry, July 31, 1984
Daniel L. Rubinfeld, Economics and Law, May 31, 1984
Associate Professor
Alan M. Baum, Mathematics, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1984
Madison J. Foster, II, Social Work, May 31, 1984
Lily C. Huang, Nursing, May 31, 1984
John E. Potts, Physics, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1984
Jeffrey A. Schultz, Finance and Quantitative Methods, UM-Flint, June 30, 1984
Gregory L. Waters, English, UM-Flint, June 30, 1984
Assistant Professor
A. Ariav Albala, Psychiatry, July 31, 1984
Barnaby B. Barratt, Psychology, September 30, 1984
Charles Beauchamp, Internal Medicine, December 31, 1983
Douglas N. Brown, Physics, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1984
Linda R. Dafoe, Nursing, UM-Flint, May 31, 1984
Edward J. Delp, III, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, August 31, 1984
Yahya Fathi, Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, June 20, 1984
James Felicetta, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1984
Bruce C. Greyson, Psychiatry, July 20, 1984
Fady Hajal, Psychiatry, August 31, 1984
Gregory L. Hansell, Electrical and Computer Engineering, June 30, 1984




62


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Raymond. S. Kandt, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Neurology, August 31, 1984
Donald A. Kroll, Anesthesiology and Pharmacology, August 15, 1984
Sue Ellyn Sauder, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
Zane Udris, Classical Studies, May 31, 1984
Carl E. Wieman, Physics, August 31, 1984
Mohamed Y. Zarrugh, Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, August 7, 1984
Instructor
Fred M. Aueron, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1984
Jonathan G. Henry, Family Practice, June 30, 1984
Irene S. Kazmers, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1984
Nathan Laufer, Internal Medicine, August 17, 1984
Monir W. Phillips, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1984
Kishor D. Popat, Internal Medicine, August 31, 1984
Lecturer
Sonia D. Harlan, Slavic Languages and Literatures, May 31, 1984
Duncan J. Kretovich, Finance and Accounting, UM-Flint, August 31, 1984
Mary G. LaRoche, Rhetoric and Composition, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1984
Ho-Fo Wu, Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 1984
Clinical Professor
Gordon M. Folger, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
Clinical Associate Professor
Alejandro Morales, Dermatology, March 22, 1984
Clinical Assistant Professor
John H. Hageman, Surgery, August 31, 1984
Marek A. Stawiski, Dermatology and Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
July 31, 1984
Rajasekharan P. Warrier, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
Clinical Instructor
John R. Dayton, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
James A. Gonzales, Pharmacy, July 12, 1984
Canol Ann Lefebyre, Dentistry, July 31, 1984
John R. Love, Dermatology, June 30, 1984
Albent J. Pomeranz, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
Israel L. Praiss, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
Mridula Reveri, Pediatrics and Ccmmunicable Diseases, June 30, 1984
Adjunct Lecturer
Monica E. Coffey, Policy Control, April 30, 1984
Leaves of Absence
Sixty-one sabbatical leaves, eight off-campus assignments, ten scholarly
activity leaves, four extended sick leaves, twenty-five retirement furloughs,
thirty-two leaves of absence without salary, and one disability leave of
absence were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of ten faculty members. The
following retirement memoirs were adopted:
WILLIAM L. CASH, JR., Professor of Education, has retired from active faculty status
as of August 31, 1984. He has had an active teaching career as a professor in guidance and
counseling, and as an administrator in the Office of the President.
Professor Cash received his A.B. degree from Fisk University in 1937; B.D. and S.T.M.
degrees from the Oberlin Graduate School of Theology in 1940 and 1950, respectively; and M.
A. and Ph.D. degrees from The University of Michigan in 1952 and 1954, respectively.
Professor Cash was a minister of St. Paul Congregational Church in New Iberia, Louisiana,




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


63


from 1940 to 1942, and served as a chaplain in the U. S. Army from 1942 to 1946. From 1946
to 1949, he was the Traveling Secretary, College Division, International Committee of the
National Young Men's Christian Association. Concurrent with this position, he began his
academic career by teaching part-time at Shaw University, North Carolina College, and
Livingston College, all in North Carolina. He was named Professor of Psychology and
Director, Counseling Center, at Prairie View A & M College, Prairie View, Texas, in 1953,
and continued in that position until 1960 when he joined the Psychology Department at the
University of North Dakota where he also served as the Director of the Institute on Human
Relations. He remained at the University of North Dakota, holding various positions (including
Chairman of the Counseling and Guidance Department) until 1965 when he became an
Education Research and Program Specialist with the Counseling and Guidance Institutes, U.S.
Office of Education, Washington, D.C. While with the U.S.O.E., he also held the positions of
Education Officer, Chief, Counseling and Guidance Institutes, and Assistant Director, Planning
and Evaluation, Bureau of the Handicapped. In 1968, Professor Cash came to The University of
Michigan as Assistant to the President, Professor of Education, and Lecturer in Psychology.
As Professor of Education, he has taught graduate level courses in guidance and counseling,
advised graduate students, and supervised doctoral dissertations. His contributions to the
University as a whole, as Assistant to the President, are extensive.
In recognition of the above achievements and contributions, the Regents now grant William
L. Cash, Jr., the title of Professor Emeritus of Education.
HAROLD WRIGHT CRUSE, Professor of History and of Afroamerican and African
Studies, has retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1984, after a most productive
career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Petersburg, Virginia, Professor Cruse lived and was educated in the public
schools of Petersburg and New York City. His formal postsecondary education was confined to
the Armed Forces Institute where he studied journalism in 1941-42. His World War II military
service in the Army Quartermaster Corps took him to Northern Ireland, Scotland, England,
North Africa, and Italy.
Shortly after completing his military service, Professor Cruse undertook a series of positions
in public service, journalism, and community affairs that has given a special and unique
character to his critical essays and historical scholarship. Working as a freelance journalist,
specializing in the social and labor history of Afro-Americans, and film and theater criticism,
he has contributed to a variety of American and European publications, including New Leader,
Negro Digest, Presence Africaine, Le Temps Moderne, and The New York Review of Books.
Professor Cruse came to The University of Michigan in 1968-69 as a visiting professor, an
appointment he held continuously until 1977 when he was promoted to Professor of History and
of Afroamerican and African Studies. He assisted in organizing the Center for Afroamerican
and African Studies in 1968-69, served as its first director in 1969-70, and again in 1972-73.
He has been a visiting professor at numerous universities in America and Europe.
Professor Cruse's major contributions to scholarship are The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual,
and Rebellion or Revolution?. Crisis is undoubtedly among the most widely read, hotly
debated, and influential works of history and social criticism published in the 1960's. It has
been compared with such other monumental works by Black scholar-activists as W.E.B.
DuBois's Souls of Black Folk and Carter G. Woodson's Miseducation of the Negro. Cruse's
description of the historical conflict between integrationist and nationalist tendencies among the
Black intelligentsia is genuinely original; his provocative analyses of contemporary Black
politics and social life enlivened by his own participation-observation continue to challenge
scholars and laypersons alike. His recent invitation to join the European Academy of Arts,
Sciences and Humanities is further testimony to the influence of his work.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, historian and social critic for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of History and of Afroamerican and
African Studies.
ROBERT C. HENDRIX, M.D., Professor of Pathology, has retired from the Department
of Pathology, in the Medical School, effective June 30, 1984, after a most productive and
rewarding career.
Dr. Hendrix attended the University of Texas from 1936-41. He received his A.B. degree
with honors (in zoology) in 1940, and his Master's degree in 1941. From there, Dr. Hendrix
entered The University of Michigan as a doctoral candidate in 1941. After a year he left the




64


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


University and enlisted in the Navy for a two year period. In 1944, Dr. Hendrix returned to The
University of Michigan as a medical student, and received his M.D. degree in 1948.
Dr. Hendrix spent one year on a rotating internship at The University of Michigan Hospital
and entered the Pathology Residency Training Program in 1949. At the completion of his
residency training, Dr. Hendrix was appointed as an instructor in the Department of Pathology
in 1951; promoted to assistant professor in 1953; associate professor in 1958; and professor in
1965.
Dr. Hendrix has been Director of the Autopsy Service in the Department of Pathology for
many years and was certified in forensic pathology by The American Board of Pathology in
1960. He has worked closely with both state and city officials in establishing the current
Medical Examiners System in the State of Michigan. Besides his many service and administrative activities, Dr. Hendrix has developed a close liaison with law enforcement agencies
throughout Michigan. In March, 1970, former Governor Wiliiam Milliken set up the Special
Forensic Sciences Resources Committee, and Dr. Hendrix was appointed as a charter member.
This committee established the basic guidelines for the development of Michigan's forensic
science service delivery system and the basis for the Office of Criminal Justice Program's
planning and funding in the forensics area for the state. He served as acting medical examiner
for Washtenaw County until a permanent director of the County Health Department was
appointed.
Dr. Hendrix has also been active in pathology teaching programs. He was designated the
departmental representative on the Dental Basic Science Curriculum Committee in 1974.
Between teaching and service activities, Dr. Hendrix has also managed to serve as a lecturer in
forensic medicine throughout Michigan and the United States.
During his years of service to the University, the Hospital and the Medical School, Dr.
Hendrix has served on a number of committees. He was authorized to head the Cancer Tumor
Registry in 1974, assisting in the Registry's growth and development over the years until his
phased retirement in 1983. Dr. Hendrix has also served on the Medical School Executive
Committee, and the Library Committee to name only a few.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Pathology.
DORIN L. HINERMAN, M.D., Professor of Pathology, has retired from the Department
of Pathology, in the Medical School, as of June 30, 1984, after a most productive career.
Dr. Hinerman attended Marshall College from 1933-37, where he received his A.B. degree
in 1937. He then came to The University of Michigan and received his M.D. degree in 1942.
After a year-long internship at Milwaukee Hospital, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Dr. Hinerman
returned to The University of Michigan for his training in pathology. THineyT, as he is
known, began his residency in 1943 and has been a member of the department since that time.
He was appointed to the faculty as instructor in 1945; promoted to assistant professor in 1948;
associate professor in 1953; and professor in 1958.
Dr. Hinerman has been active on many Medical School, Hospital, and University Committees. He was elected to The University of Michigan Senate Assembly from 1968-73 and was
re-elected in 1978; he was vice-chairman of the Assembly in 1971, and became chairman in
1972. In addition to his numerous service activities during his years here at the University, Dr.
Hinerman has avidly supported the Athletic Department. He was the "unofficial" team doctor
for the football, basketball and hockey teams for over seventeen years, on a volunteer basis. Dr.
Hinerman was instrumental in developing an athletic medicine program at the University as
well as the state level.
In 1954, Dr. Hinerman was appointed as a member of the Tumor Consultant Board of the
Michigan Tumor Registry by the Detroit Institute of Cancer Research, which later became the
Michigan Cancer Foundation. He has been an active member of this foundation, and, in fact, is
now Chairman of the Board. In addition, former Governor William G. Milliken appointed him
to the Task Force on Michigan Cancer Data in 1978. This task force was given two charges: the
first was a discussion of the cancer problem in Michigan; and the second presented specific
recommendations to address the needs of the State related to the development of a data system.
During his years of service to the Department of Pathology, Dr. Hinerman has been known
as one of the excellent teachers in the Medical School, and for his commitment to students. His
advice was sought as a counselor by many students. When The University of Michigan Medical
School established a new program of student counseling in 1960, Dr. Hinerman was named as
one of the three faculty members to serve in the capacity of counselor. He was responsible for




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


65


the sophomore pathology course taught in the late 1950's and early 1960's, and has been a
popular teacher to students throughout the years. The students affectionately nicknamed him the
"red macrophage".
The Regents now salute Dr. Hinerman's faithful and conscientious service to the Department of Pathology, the University Hospitals, and The University of Michigan by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Pathology.
SAMUEL P. HICKS, M.D., Professor of Pathology and Director of Neuropathology
Service, has retired from the Department of Pathology in the Medical School as of June 30,
1984.
Dr. Hicks attended the University of Pennsylvania from 1931-36; he received his A.B.
degree in 1936 and his M.D. degree in 1940. Upon completion of his medical school education,
Dr. Hicks began a pathology internship at Cornell University (1940-41), and then spent a year
at the Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, New York, for an internship in medicine. In
1942, Dr. Hicks enlisted in the U.S. Navy Medical Corps. From 1942-43 he was a trainee in
Navy Pathology at the Lahev Clinic, New England Deaconess Hospital. He was the Pathologist
of the Navy Base Hospital in Hollandia, New Guinea, from 1944-45. Dr. Hicks served as Head
of the Department of Pathology at the National Navy Medical Center and Naval Medical School
in Bethesda, Maryland, from 1946-47. He was certified by the American Board of Pathology in
Anatomic Pathology in 1946, and in Neuropathology in 1960.
Upon completion of his training and service duties, Dr. Hicks accepted the position of
Associate Professor of Pathology at the Georgetown University Medical School in Washington,
D.C. He was also a consultant in neuropathology at the National Naval Medical Center. In
1948 Dr. Hicks accepted an appointment at the New England Deaconess Hospital and Harvard
Medical School in Boston, moving from an associate to associate professor. He was appointed
Pathologist-in-Chief of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston for one year. The Department of Pathology at The University of Michigan recruited Dr. Hicks in 1962 as Professor of
Pathology.
Dr. Hicks is the Department of Pathology's specialist in the field of neuropathology. He has
served on the neural and behavioral sciences course committee of the Medical School. Dr.
Hicks has shared teaching responsibilities for the Neuropathology 858 course, as well as the
pathology brain cutting conferences. He has served as an advisor for the Departments of
Radiology and Neurology. Dr. Hicks has been actively involved in the teaching of clinical
medicine to medical students.
In addition to his administrative duties as Director of Neuropathology Service, Dr. Hicks
has been an active researcher. He has consistently obtained NIH grants, and has tentative
approval for a grant for the year 1984-85. Dr. Hicks plans to continue with his research
activities after retirement.
The Regents now salute Dr. Hicks' dedication to the Department of Pathology, the
University Hospitals, and The University of Michigan by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Pathology.
HERBERT W. JOHE, Assistant Dean and Professor of Architecture, retired from active
status effective June 30, 1984.
Following service in the U.S. Navy during World War II, Professor Johe joined the faculty
at The University of Michigan in 1947. He taught architectural design and graphic communication until 1959, when he was appointed Assistant Dean of the College of Architecture and
Design, a position he held until his retirement. During his long service as an administrator, he
continued to teach part-time. His last year was the high point of his teaching career when he
attracted large numbers of students to his watercolor classes. A rendering technique long
abandoned by architects, watercolor is enjoying a revival among students.
As an architect, Professor Johe designed more than twenty houses in Ann Arbor. In
affiliation with R. Noehren, noted organ builder, he designed seven organ cases. An accomplished watercolorist, his work has been included in several public exhibitions.
Professor Johe was an efficient and durable administrator, in charge of most matters relating
to architecture students, from admission to graduation. Throughout his tenure as assistant dean,
he served as Secretary to the College of Architecture Executive Committee. A willing and able
committee worker, he was assigned to many university and college committees. His versatility
and broad knowledge of the University was a great asset to the college.
The Regents now salute this respected administrator and teacher for his many contributions




66


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


to the life of the University by naming him Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Architecture.
JOSEPH T. A. LEE, Professor of Architecture, retired from active status effective May
31, 1984.
Educated originally in civil and electrical engineering, Professor Lee found employment in
architectural firms, then completed his formal education in architecture. In 1952, he joined the
faculty at The University of Michigan. Since then, he has taught at all levels of design in the
undergraduate and graduate programs, maintaining through the years a remarkable rapport with
students. Foreign students, in particular, have found him to be a wise and understanding
counselor and friend, interested in both the personal and professional development of each
student.
Professor Lee has been an outstanding servant of the Ann Arbor community in matters
pertaining to education and the quality of the environment. He chaired the Ann Arbor Area
Goals Conference in 1965, served a term on the Ann Arbor Board of Education and chaired
many city or township environmental committees. Few individuals have given so much of their
time and energy in matters of public concern.
As an architect, Professor Lee graced the Ann Arbor area with a number of fine residences
and commercial buildings. His reputation among the Chinese-American community of the
Midwest led to his selection as one of a private group of scientists and educators to be among
the first to visit mainland China in 1972. His vivid photographic record and description of the
"New China" society and its architecture were widely publicized.
For his many contributions to the University and the Ann Arbor community, the Regents
salute this devoted teacher by naming him Professor Emeritus of Architecture.
NEWTON C. LOKEN, Professor of Physical Education, retired from active status as of
May 31, 1984 after a most productive career spanning 37 years at The University of Michigan.
Professor Loken completed his undergraduate work at the University of Minnesota in 1942,
completed his masters degree in 1946 and his doctoral degree in 1955 at The University of
Michigan. He began his teaching career in the Department of Physical Education in 1946, and
two years later began coaching the varsity gymnastics team. He attained the position of
professor and taught courses in administration, recreation and dancing.
Professor Loken is recognized as a leader in movement sciences, especially in the area of
gymnastics. He has written extensively, authoring several books on trampolining, tumbling,
cheerleading, and gymnastics. His book, The Complete Book of Gymnastics, has been widely
used throughout the nation and the world.
Newt Loken is known for the energy he freely gave to the gymnastics team. During the 36
years he coached the Michigan teams, he developed 71 Big Ten individual champions, 21
NCAA champions, 12 Big Ten team titles, and two NCAA team titles plus two NCAA
trampoline team titles. His dual meet record was 250-72-1.
Professor Loken received many honors throughout his coaching career, including induction
into the Michigan and Michigan Amateur Sports Halls of Fame. He served as a chairperson of
the National Association of College Gymnastics Coach Award and chairperson of the United
States Trampoline Association Hall of Fame. The Newt Loken Scholarship Award was established in 1981.
The Regents now salute this dedicated educator and coach by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Physical Education.
ROBERT B. LYTLE, JR., Professor of Architecture, retired from active status effective
May 31, 1984.
After several years as a designer in prestigious firms, Professor Lytle joined the faculty at
The University of Michigan in 1956. Over the years he taught graphics, visual fundamentals
and design at all levels of the undergraduate and graduate programs, establishing a reputation as
a demanding instructor who could guide students to a high level of achievement. His problems
were always current and intriguing, developed from materials he gathered in world-wide travel.
A creative and imaginative person, Professor Lytle was a designer of wide range; from
letterheads to certificates, books, street and highway graphics, exhibitions, and buildings. With
others, he participated in making several films on perception and the use of visual elements to
control circulation of people in the environment and to contribute to highway safety.
An activist in community issues, especially as these relate to the visual quality of the




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


67


environment, Professor Lytle has served on many local and state committees. He served one
term as president of the Ann Arbor Art Association. He was a member of the steering
committee for the Ann Arbor Goals Conference and the Ann Arbor Mayor's Committee on
Natural Beauty in the Environment. He participated in the organization and publication of many
conferences on housing, transportation, historic preservation, and design.
The Regents salute this versatile designer and teacher for his many contributions to the
University and the Ann Arbor community by naming him Professor Emeritus of Architecture.
MARY M. SCHRODER, Associate Professor of Nursing, has retired from active faculty
status as of May 31, 1984, after a long career as a nurse educator.
Professor Schroder completed her basic nursing preparation in 1952 at the Methodist
Hospital School of Nursing in Indianapolis, Indiana. She received her baccalaureate in nursing
from Indiana University, Bloomington, in 1955 and her master's degree in 1958 from the
University of Chicago.
From 1952 to 1955, Professor Schroder was an instructor at the Methodist Hospital School of
Nursing, following which she spent one year as a staff nurse at Liverpool Royal Infirmary, Liverpool, England. After one year as an instructor at the Miami Valley Hospital School of Nursing in
Dayton, Ohio, she was appointed Coordinator and Chairman, General Nursing at Presbyterian St.
Luke's Hospital, School of Nursing, Chicago, Illinois. During her tenure there, from 1958 to
1964, Professor Schroder was involved in the merger of nursing education and nursing service.
Professor Schroder joined the faculty at The University of Michigan in 1964 as instructor of
Nursing. She was promoted to assistant professor in 1966 and to associate professor in 1969.
She taught in both the medical/surgical nursing area and the nursing fundamentals area, the
latter of which she chaired from 1972 to 1975.
Professor Schroder has been active in professional organizations and in volunteer community and church-related activities.
The Regents recognize this distinguished nurse educator for her dedicated service by naming
her Associate Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported the death of two faculty members. The
following memorial statements were adopted unanimously.
It is with deep sadness that the Regents of The University of Michigan acknowledge the loss
of WILLIAM WARNER BROCKMAN, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, who died on August 6, 1984, at the age of 42.
Professor Brockman received his B.S. degree with distinction from Cornell University,
Ithaca, N.Y. in 1964, and his M.D. degree from Cornell University Medical College, New
York, in 1968.
In 1970, following an internship and residency at the Baltimore City Hospital and the Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Professor Brockman began his postdoctoral research
training on RNA tumor viruses in the laboratory of Dr. William A. Carter at the Johns Hopkins
University. In 1972, he broadened the scope of his training to include the-DNA viruses by
joining the laboratory of Dr. Daniel Nathans at the same institution. This training was followed
by two additional years of research in the laboratory of Dr. Robert Martin at the National
Institutes of Health.
Professor Brockman joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as Assistant Professor
of Microbiology and Immunology in 1976, and was promoted to associate professor in 1980.
Professor Brockman's research interests centered upon the viral genes that are required for
malignant transformation of mammalian cells. Professor Brockman's work appeared in the
major virology journals. He was the author of several influential review articles, and was a
regular contributor to international workshops and symposia on the molecular biology of animal
viruses. His leadership role in this important area of contemporary biomedical research led to
his service as a site visitor for the Special Program Advisory Committee of the National Cancer
Institute, and as a member of the Experimental Virology Study Section for the National Cancer
Institute. Professor Brockman's work had been supported continuously for the past eight years
by the National Cancer Institute, and he had just received funding for another three years at the
time of his death.
Professor Brockman's course on the "Molecular Biology of Animal Viruses" was a major




68


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


strength in the curriculum of the microbiology and immunology program. He also played a key
role in the training of graduate students for the interdepartmental program in cellular and
molecular biology. His deep commitment to his science and his students was an inspiration to
faculty and students alike.
Professor Brockman began spending his summers on farms in 1954 and throughout his years
at Michigan farmed his land near Dexter. He also was a certified soil scientist and an active
participant in community affairs.
Faculty, students and friends will long remember Professor Brockman for his dedication to
science, teaching, agriculture, and community. The Regents join them in mourning the loss of
this talented member of the The University of Michigan Faculty.
It is with sadness that the Regents of The University of Michigan acknowledge the passing
of MERWIN H. WATERMAN, Professor Emeritus of Finance in the School of Business
Administration. Professor Waterman passed away June 10, 1984 in Laguna Hills, California.
Jim Waterman was awarded his M.B.A. degree in 1926 and his Ph.D. degree in 1932 from The
University of Michigan School of Business Administration. After graduation he stayed on at
Michigan as a member of the Business School's faculty. He remained on the faculty until his
retirement in 1972.
Professor Waterman was greatly admired by his colleagues and his business contacts for the
diversity of his skills and the breadth of his interests. He served the Graduate School of
Business Administration, the University as a whole, the business community, the city of Ann
Arbor, and became widely known throughout Western Europe and the Far East through
teaching and research activities. In addition, he was a good administrator. He managed the
Bureau of Business Research for a few years. He was also Secretary of the Business School
from 1937 to 1946. He served on many study groups and committees, often as chairman. He
was counselor of doctoral candidates, and for the latter half of 1960 served as Acting Dean.
Within the University he was a member and Secretary of the Senate Advisory Committee and a
member of many administrative sub-groups. He was a member of The University of Michigan
Development Council for a three-year term. He also found time to serve in the Kiwanis Club
and to be an active member of the Ann Arbor School Board for nine years.
On the national front, Professor Waterman was a consultant to several corporations and to
government agencies, among them the U. S. Treasury Department. On leave from the University in 1958-59, he served as a consultant to the Organization for European Economic
Cooperation and the European Productivity Agency.
One particular domestic problem in which Professor Waterman and other members of the
Business School faculty served as consultants was war contract negotiations. They participated
with armed services personnel in educational programs for the settlement of war contracts, and
in the renegotiation proceedings before price adjustment boards.
In the 1960's, Professor Waterman spent considerable time in the Far East. In 1970 he was
in Indonesia for consultation with the Indonesian Bank in Djakarta; in 1970-73 he was in the
Phillippines as a representative of the International Executive service corps to teach for the
Asian Institute of Management. He also spent some time in Taiwan as a consultant to develop
an educational program for executive development activities.
As might be expected, his research activities have generated publications, usually as
monographs and articles, in scholarly journals. They deal mostly with financing in the public
utility field, investment banking functions and promotions, and financial management in
general. His acumen in financial matters has been recognized not only in the United States but
also in other countries. He held various offices in the Financial Analysts Society of Detroit,
including the presidency, and was on the Board of Directors of the National Analysts Federation.
Jim Waterman will be remembered with gratitude and affection by his former colleagues
and students, all of whom share the joy of the memory of a man who shared his warmth and
affection with those around him.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case the Regents
approved the following the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, April 27, 1984 (Computer Engineering)




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


69


add: Carolyn Susan Pollard
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, April 27, 1984 (Aerospace Engineering)
correct to show: Robert Maurice McGee
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Richard Curtis Bair
Herbert Michael Buhler
Shari Barbara Lebowitz
Tracey Knight Roberts
Michael Harold Schatz
Arthur James Simonetti
correct to show: Marian Miller Kremer with Distinction: Highest Honors in Communication
Daniel Mark Newman with Distinction: High Honors in Political Science
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1984
add: Anthony Ralph Petriella
Brant Michael Weinstein
Bachelor of Arts, December 20, 1983
delete: James Philip Leege
Bachelor of Science, December 20, 1983
add: James Philip Leege
Bachelor of Science, April 29, 1983
add: Reed Alan Shick
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Lisa Dionne Calhoun
Walter Patrick Jones
Alisa Lori Krinsky
Kelly McDonald
John William Merline with Distinction
Robert Michael Prentis
Mark Richard Sendo
Michael Steven Traylor
correct to show: James Loweli Komie with High Distinction: High Honors in English
Kathryn Lee Sutton with Highest Distinction: High Honors in Linguistics
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1984
add: Jeffrey Steven Oleinick
Daniel C. Seats
Jeffrey. B. Wallace
correct to show: Richard Scott Isaacs with Distinction
Bachelor in General Studies, April 27, 1984
add: Mark David Manders
correct to show: Rolf Paul Pielemeier
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, December 20, 1984
correct to show: Margarita Orticochea
Bachelor of Science, April 29, 1983
add: Deborah Lynn Braun
School of Public Health
Master of Public Health, April, 1984
add: Allan Bert Wah Kwai Chun, B.A., University of Hawaii at Monoa
Residential College
Bachelor of Arts, April, 1984
add: Brian Allen
Final Degree List, Law      School, confirmed
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the May Commencement for the Law School.




70


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Telecommunications System
Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that action was requested at this time
with respect to the financing for the new telephone system, and he reviewed
the recommendation.
Regent Roach moved authorization to proceed with the financing of the
telephone system and adoption of the following resolution. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RESOLVED, that the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized and directed
to proceed with a program for financing the acquisition of a telecommunications system, and in
particular, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, that the Vice President and Chief
Financial officer be authorized and directed as follows:
1) together with John Nuveen & Co., Inc. to develop the terms for the bonds, and to
prepare and circulate a preliminary official statement describing the student fee bond
issue and the University and its affairs; and
2) to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard and Poor's
Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3) to obtain from John Nuveen & Co., Inc. a final proposal for the telecommunication
system bonds, including price and interest rates, which final proposal would be submitted to the Board of Regents for its approval and acceptance.
College Housing Program
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented that the Regents had approved a
request in July to allow the University to prepay certain bonds issued under
the College Housing Program at a discounted rate. The final rules for the
discount of the loans had not been published at that time. Since then, the
regulations were produced and they were determined to be unsatisfactory as
far as the University was concerned. Therefore, until the regulations are
changed, the University will not participate.
Lorch Hall Renovations
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation for the renovations of Lorch Hall.
Regent Vamer noted that there were no bidders listed under the hard tile
component. Didn't the University receive any bids for that job? Vice
President Brinkerhoff said that there were no bids received. The work would
have to be performed internally or the University could continue to look for
an appropriate subcontractor.
Regent Roach asked if the lack of bids was an indication that the market
in the Ann Arbor area was saturated. Vice President Brinkerhoff responded
affirmatively, and indicated that it reflects also the fact that a number of
contractors who had been in business during the last twenty years were no
longer in the construction business as a result of the recession that was
particularly hard on the construction industry.
Regent Roach remarked that the RHP was most likely employing a good
number of interior finish tradesmen and depleting the market. Since the
replacement hospital work would continue for the next several months, he
felt that the University should be careful in recommending new projects for




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


71


this period. He asked if Freeman-Darling, Inc. would assume responsibility
for coordinating the project.
Vice President Brinkerhoff said that the University would function in the
coordinating role. The University is not unfamiliar with this role, and the
internal skills and the computer programs for the Critical Path Method
analysis would be available to the staff. Freeman-Darling will be assuming
some of responsibilities under the general conditions, but not the coordination.
Regent Roach asked if the University's internal people had the capacity
to perform this function. He did not question their ability. He felt that there
was a high measure of risk involved, and that owners could not afford to
take those risks unless they have the talent and construction administration
staff to do so. Regent Roach said that the University ought to watch the
marked conditions and its own capacity question very closely for a period of
time.
Regent Power moved to approve the revised budget and authorize the
award of contracts to the low bidders for the Lorch Hall renovations, as
recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations
Regent Baker moved to approve proceeding with the projects, as outlined for the Ruthven Museum renovations, Chemistry Building renovations,
and the School of Art renovations. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Chemical Sciences Facility
Following the review of the recommendation to appoint an architect for
the biology and chemistry library in connection with the Chemical Sciences
Facility, Regent Baker asked if there had been any changes in the overall
scheme of that facility since it had been presented to the Regents.
Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that basically it is the same as
originally presented. The questions that were raised by the Board relative to
the original layout or design are still to be addressed by the architect once
the schematics are undertaken. The project is due to be presented to the Joint
Capital Outlay Committee sometime this fall for planning funds. The next
step will be the presentation of the schematics to the Board prior to the
design development drawings so that there will be an additional opportunity
for review of the physical characteristic of the building.
Regent Power moved to approve the appointment of Sims-Vamer &
Associates, Inc. of Detroit as the architect for the Biology and Chemistry
Library which is part of the overall Chemical Sciences facility. Regent
Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
UM Hospitals Computers
The Regents received an item for information indicating the completion
of the upgrading of the computers for the University of Michigan Hospitals.




72


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


X. OTHER
W. W. Crook, Restoration of M.S. Degree
Regent Roach moved to confirm the restoration of the Master of Science
degree to Wilson W. Crook III pending final decision on appeal of the
pending lawsuit between Mr. Crook and the University. Regent Nederlander
seconded the action and it was adopted.
Physical Education, Division of
Vice President Frye commented that information concerning the formation of the Division of Physical Education was presented to the Regents in
July, but the necessary bylaw changes were deferred in order to have public
comment before action is taken. The changes for bylaw Sections 11.22,
6.02, 6.05, and 11.051 have gone through the recommended procedures.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the revisions to the Regents' Bylaws.
Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted. The bylaws, as
revised, follow:
Sec. 11.22. Division of Physical Education
The Division of Physical Education shall be maintained for the purpose of conducting
research and offering curricula in kinesiology and sports management and communications. It
shall be in the charge of a Director appointed by the Board on recommendation by the President
and responsible to the Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost.
The Executive Committee will consist of the Director and four members of the governing
faculty to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the President. The appointed
faculty members shall hold office for two years, and the terms shall be so adjusted that two will
expire each year. Members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of two
years. The Director shall chair the committee.
Sec. 6.02. Degree Program Definitions
Undergraduate Degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art
School of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
School of Education
College of Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music
School of Natural Resources
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Division of Physical Education
Remainder of this Section is unchanged.
Sec. 6.05. Divisions of the University
A Division of the University may be established by the President and the Board on request
from faculty members interested in a common substantive field which cuts across administrative
lines, for the purpose of coordinating allied interests and activities. In the exercise of its
functions, a Division shall concern itself with the inter-relations of programs of instruction, the
encouragement of individual research, the promotion of cooperative investigations, and the
performance of extramural services. The functioning agency of a Division shall be a general
committee representative of the constituent departments and constituted in such a manner as




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


73


may be deemed appropriate in each division. The individuals constituting the general committee
shall be nominated by appropriate agencies of the schools, colleges, and departments.
A Division is not an administrative unit. It shall cease to exist when the constituent
members do not request appointment of members and officers for the ensuing year. It may be
reactivated by a request to the President from former constituent members.
The chairman of each Division shall be appointed by the President on recommendation of
the Division members.
Divisions may be established in Social Sciences, Extramural Services, Fine Arts, Biological
Sciences, Health Sciences, and other areas as need indicates.
This Section shall not apply to the Division of Physical Education, the Divisions at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn, or the Divisions at the School of Education, which are
operative administrative and academic units.
Sec. 11.051. The School of Education-Courses for the Training of Teachers of Physical
Education.
In cooperation with the Division of Physical Education, the School of Education shall
provide a curriculum for the training of physical education teachers.
Regent Roach then moved that the existing Section 11.03 of the Regents' Bylaws for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn be revoked, that the proposed Sections 11.031-11.034 be
approved, that the proposed Bylaws for the Division of Education be approved, and that Section
11.031, University of Michigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee, be renumbered 11.03.
Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted. The revisions and proposed sections
follow:
Sec. 11.031. The University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Science, and Letters,
Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee shall consist of the Dean and six faculty members of Senate rank
to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the Chancellor and the President. The
appointed members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The
terms shall be for three years and shall be so adjusted that two vacancies shall occur each year.
The Dean shall chair the Committee.
Sec. 11.032. The University of Michigan-Dearborn-Division of Education Executive
Committee.
The Executive Committee shall consist of the Dean and three faculty members of Senate
rank to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the Chancellor and the President.
The appointed members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year.
The terms shall be for three years and shall be so adjusted that one vacancy shall occur each
year. The Dean shall chair the Committee.
Sec. 11.033. The University of Michigan-Dearborn-School of Engineering Executive
Committee.
The Executive Committee shall consist of the Dean and four faculty members of Senate
rank to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the Chancellor and the President.
The appointed members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year.
The terms shall be for two years and shall be so adjusted that two vacancies shall occur each
year. The Dean shall chair the Committee.
Sec. 11.034. The University of Michigan-Dearborn-Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee shall consist of the Director of the Division of Interdisciplinary
Studies and five faculty members of Senate rank to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the Chancellor and the President. The appointed members shall not be eligible for
reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The terms shall be for three years and shall be
so adjusted that one or two vacancies shall occur each year. The Director of the Division of
Interdisciplinary Studies shall chair the Committee.




74


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


Regents' Meetings Schedule for 1985
The Regents unanimously approved the following schedule for the 1985
Regents' meetings:
January 17, 18                   July 18, 19
February 14, 15                  August-no meeting
March 14, 15                     September 19, 20
April 18, 19                     October 17, 18
May 16, 17                       November 14, 15
June 20, 21                      December 19, 20
Commencement Exercises in 1985 will be on Saturday, May 4, and
Sunday, December 15.
Association of American Publishers Membership
Regent Nederlander moved approval of renewal of membership in the
Professional and Scholarly Publishing Division of the Association of American Publishers. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The request for approval of, a membership in Engineering College/
Engineering Research Council, UM-Dearbom was deferred for further
information.
W. L. Cash, Resolution
The Regents unanimously adopted the following resolution:
The Regents of The University of Michigan extend to Dr. William L. Cash, Jr. their best
wishes and warm appreciation on the occasion of his retirement.
The Regents have often acknowledged the University's good fortune in having the right
people in the right place at the right time. Such an axiom most surely characterizes Dr. Cash's
service as Assistant to the President. While his contributions as a faculty member are recounted
elsewhere in the traditional retirement memoir, the Regents believe his special role as Assistant
to the President deserves additional recognition.
Recruited to the University by President Robben Fleming, Dr. Cash has worked tirelessly to
give meaning and substance to the University's commitment to provide educational and
employment opportunities to minorities everywhere. In his subsequent service to three University presidents, he gave special meaning to the office of "Assistant to the President". For he
served not only as "assistant" but as "counselor," "advisor," "negotiator," "respresentor"
in an almost endless variety of tasks usually amid the most sensitive of circumstances. His
loyalty to the institution never wavered but neither did his dedication to make this university
attentive to its responsibilities to all individuals regardless of their race, creed or sex.
The Regents thus commend this gentle, forthright man for his efforts to help this university
serve all people with equal dedication. They extend their warm wishes for a rewarding and
happy retirement.
Ballot Proposal 6'C"
Regent Dunn moved the following resolution on Proposal C, and Regent
Power seconded the motion:
WHEREAS, the citizens of Michigan have created campuses of the University of Michigan
at Ann Arbor, Flint and Dearborn; and
WHEREAS, the people of Michigan have charged their elected representatives in Lansing
as well as the University's Board of Regents with the responsibility for supporting and
maintaining this distinguished three campus University; and
WHEREAS, the voters in Michigan will be confronted with Ballot Proposal "C" which
would seriously undermine the ability of elected state officials to discharge this responsibility;
and
WHEREAS, Proposal "C" if adopted would dramatically impede the capacity of the State




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


75


of Michigan as well as every community in the state to counteract the effects of one of the
worst economic recessions in the state's history; and
WHEREAS the adoption of Proposal "C" would result in a tragic reversal in the state's
efforts to restore an adequate level of funding for public higher education institutions thereby
forcing increased tuition levels that are already the highest in the nation; and
WHEREAS, the higher education funding reductions resulting from Proposal "C" would
effectively eliminate the ability of the University to continue its efforts to bolster and diversify
the industrial and economic base of the state;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
The Regents of The University of Michigan urge the voters of the State of Michigan to
reject Proposal "C"; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT:
The Regents direct the Officers of the University to undertake such communication with the
people of the state as may be appropriate to insure that they are aware of the debilitating impact
on the University that adopting of said proposal would have.
Regent Baker said that he had read the resolution on Thursday and had
mixed feelings about it. He indicated that he rarely had difficulty deciding
whether he would vote for or against a proposal as he has had with this
particular one. He said that he understood the implications the proposal
would have for the University. He felt that it was an emotional overstatement of the issue that does not speak to whether or not the University would
be injured, though in all probability the University would be injured. He was
troubled, however, that the proposal is a call for the University to undertake
lobbying against it. The proposal represents the sentiments of the people of
this state that they have had enough taxation, and the University would be
using the money provided by the citizens of Michigan through taxes to lobby
against those same citizens. Regent Baker commented that he has been
associated with the university system in Michigan for many years on the
policy making level and it is a strong system. To be sure, it is one that has
sustained injury in the recent recession, but the people have the right to say
how much they are going to be taxed. There are those who have strong
feelings on this issue and he did not wish to argue its merits or demerits. He
just wished to make these remarks to explain why he intended to abstain
from the vote.
Regent Roach wondered if either Vice President Kennedy or Regent
Dunn would be willing to describe the impact of Proposal C on state
revenues. He said he felt very strongly in support of the resolution, and he
believed that it would be an economic disaster for this state, the University,
municipalities, and all the local school boards.
In response, Regent Dunn said that it has been estimated that there
would be approximately $300 million to $500 million less in the first year
for the local boards of education throughout the state if this proposal should
pass. For the state of Michigan in 1985, there would be approximately $700
million less, and in 1986, approximately $900 million less in state revenues.
The impact would be so severe that it would virtually cripple the whole
educational system.
The proposal would also drastically change the representative form of
government under which the state operates because 80% of a legislative
body would be needed to approve any kind of a license or fee increase.
Regent Dunn indicated that, in his view, it would allow a minority to block
a decision of the majority of the elected officials. The proposal has been




76


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984


likened to the one that recently passed in California. The difference, however, is that California had a substantial surplus of funds, and fees were not
covered by the proposition.
Regent Dunn commented that he felt very strongly about the issue and,
as elected officials, the Board has a responsibility to explain the proposal to
the voters of the state of Michigan.
Regent Power remarked that Regent Dunn spoke very clearly to the
substance of the proposal, and indicated that the Regents do not take action
lightly on this kind of a resolution. She wished to note, however, the work
that the current governor has done to try to reverse the downward trend in
the support of education. With respect to the last paragraph of the resolution, Regent Power said that she would like to know how the administration
planned to communicate with the people of the state in order to inform them
of the severe impact of this proposal.
President Shapiro indicated that the University has developed a plan and
would inform the Regents directly.
Regent Roach commented that placing the figures quoted by Regent
Dunn in context, the general purpose budget of the state would be cut by
20%.
President Shapiro indicated that the impact on higher education and K-12
budgets would likely be much greater than 20%. He said that he did not
believe that the University of Michigan would cease to exist if the proposal
passed, but it would be transformed in very major ways. In his judgment, it
is a very serious matter.
Regent Roach reviewed the figures which indicated the erosion of state
support for higher education. He said that a generation ago, the state support
of the University's general fund was 73%, ten years ago it was 63% of the
general fund, and it declined to 48% two years ago. At the present time it is
only up to 50%. There have been very substantial cutbacks in state support
of this institution. To now say that there will be a rollback and allow a
minority of 20% plus one vote to set policy in this state in fiscal matters, is
close to tyranny.
President Shapiro then called for the vote. The motion was adopted with
Regent Baker abstaining.
Nuclear Free Zone Act
Regent Roach commented that he had read about the proposed Ann
Arbor charter amendment called the Nuclear Free Zone Act. He said that
there appear to be some misperceptions as to what the act would do,
therefore, he would like to have some knowledgeable people from the
university community speak to the Board on two aspects of the amendment
at the meeting in October: 1) What, if any, is the direct impact of this
proposed Ann Arbor charter amendment on the University, and 2) what is its
impact on the community, and indirectly, on the University.
Regent Baker indicated his support of the suggestion. He said that he
was concerned about the impact the act would have on the ability of the
University to freely investigate without limit every academic discipline. It
seemed to him that there were severe limitations on academic freedom in the
proposal.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1984                     77
President Shapiro indicated that would be arranged for the next meeting.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of July
totaled $764.58 and for the month of August totaled $755.32.
The Regents adjourned to meet on October 18 and 19, 1984.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 20, 1984
The Regents met at 12:15 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Dunn and Varner and Interim Vice
President Sussman were absent. Associate Vice President Price attended the
meeting for Vice President Sussman.
The meeting was convened by President Shapiro.
Nuclear Free Zone Proposal
The first order of business was an informational discussion on the
Nuclear Free Zone proposal. Daniel Axelrod, Associate Professor of Physics, and David Bassett, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
spoke in support of the proposal, while James Neel, M.D., Lee R. Dice
Distinguished University Professor of Human Genetics, and Carl Cohen,
Professor of Philosophy, spoke against the proposal.
During the ensuing discussion, the following observations were made by
the Regents:
Regent Roach did not believe it was the proper role of city or county
government to impose restrictions on the research and teaching of the
University. Regent Baker asked whether fear of the weapon and fear of its
use should be allowed to destroy political and academic freedom. What is
the juxtaposition of freedom, nuclear weapons and nuclear power.
Regent Brown said that the University of Michigan is a public institution; therefore, it is owned by the people of Michigan. What right do the
citizens of Ann Arbor have to tell the citizens of the state of Michigan what
University research is appropriate and what is not?
Regent Power commented that once one begins to restrict research in the
broad range of areas proposed by this initiative, what is to prevent future
actions by a small local group to block research in other politically sensitive
areas, such as animal rights, genetic engineering, capital punishment, or
control over a person's body. In her judgment, research cannot simplistically
be divided into good and bad, or into military and non-military related.
The breadth of this proposal would effectively ban research on a wide
range of technologies from computer science and communications systems
to electronics and nuclear science. The proposal would also prohibit research
in many areas of critical importance to arms control including technology
designed to reduce the chance of nuclear war. Regent Power mentioned a
recent article written by President Shapiro which stated that American
colleges and universities have only recently been transformed from quiet
centers of traditional moral, political, and social values into educational and
research centers at which inquiry is more important than dogma.
79




80


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


In summary, Regent Power indicated she believed that prior restraints on
the subject matter of research, intellectual freedom and freedom of speech
are and should be abhorrent in an enlightened society.
Regent Roach remarked that as a lawyer, he would urge everyone to
read the fine print in the proposal. The ordinance is much broader than one
thinks. The definitions of "delivery system," "major purpose," and "primary purpose" restrict research on any air or sea craft a major purpose of
which is the delivery of such weapons. Would that restrict the University's
aeronautical group from working on military aircraft, or the University's
naval architecture and marine engineering department from working on
military vessels or submarines? "Component" includes any material a major
function of which is to contribute to the operation, guidance or delivery of a
nuclear weapon. Does that include work on steel, light metals, or the entire
spectrum of physical sciences? Command control of communications includes remote sensing, electronic communication, data process hardware
and software, and procedures the primary purpose of which is prosecuting
nuclear war.
Regent Roach said that the ordinance does not exclude basic research nor
is it restricted to classified research. Basic research is excluded only when
its primary purpose is not the development and use of weapons. In today's
environment, how does one draw a clear line? Regent Roach was also
concerned about the indirect effect the ordinance would have on the development of the high technology industry base in Ann Arbor and the surrounding area. The University has made great efforts over the last several years to
diversify the economy to help the state financially, so that, in turn, the state
can provide the University with adequate support. In his view, this antiresearch action would have a definite chilling effect on those efforts and
greatly impact upon private enterprise in the region.
The Regents then thanked the panel for attending the meeting and
expressing their views on this important issue.
The meeting was recessed to reconvene on the Dearborn campus.
The meeting reopened at 2:15 P.M. at Fair Lane Mansion in Dearborn.
Regents Dunn and Varner joined the meeting.
President Shapiro indicated that the first item on the agenda would be
theClassroom/Laboratory Building for the Flint campus.
Classroom/Laboratory Building, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones reviewed the project and Frederick Mayer, University
Planner, commented upon the preliminary plans for the project.
Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that the estimated construction cost
should be corrected to $19,752,000 and the total project cost to $24,652,000.
President Shapiro indicated that the achievement of this project would allow
UM-Flint to be on one campus for the first time in many years.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the preliminary plans and authorization
to proceed through working drawings and construction contract documents
for the Classroom/Laboratory Building pending design approval by the Joint
Capital Outlay Subcommittee of the legislature and their authorization and
funding for that work. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


81


I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of July and September, 1984 were deferred.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff filed his monthly reports on investment
transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, replacement hospital program, and non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources.
Vice President Sussman filed a report on grants and contracts for research.
With respect to the GEO issue in the personnel-labor relations report,
President Shapiro indicated that the U.S. Senate has now passed the bill
providing for an extension through 1985 of an exclusion from taxation for
educational assistance plans and the bill is now on the President's desk. If he
does not veto it, the issue will be resolved for now. Vice President Brinkerhoff
noted that the University was prepared to reimburse the withheld funds to
the graduate assistants for the first term of this year and any deductions that
have taken place since then.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Cosovich reported gifts from the following sources. They
were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Allied Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey; for research in the College of Engineering and in  the School of Public Health funds.............................  7,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the School of
Dentistry, the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy funds............. 37,000
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School and in the School of Public Health funds...........................  73,152
Anonymous Donor, for chemotherapy research in the Medical School fund........ 40,000
Anonymous Donor; for the construction of the Eye Center fund..................  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund....  7,500
Robert Arthur Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund.. 36,405
Associated Medical Research, Southfield; for research on urban security, in the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning funds.........................  5,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for endowed support of the
aw   School  fund......................................................  25,000
Gertrude Bock Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund.  5,000
Bristol Laboratories Division of Bristol-Myers Company, Syracuse, New York; for
anesthesiology research in the Medical School fund......................... 10,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea; for support of the Institute of Gerontology fund  10,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; Employee Matching Gifts (for 15 units) fund...  7,535
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration  Campaign  fund..................................  10,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York; for curriculum development
in the School of Business Administration fund.............................  20,000
Council for Tobacco Research-USA, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the
M edical  School  fund.................................................  17,500
Diasonics, Inc., NMR Division, South San Francisco, California; for radiological
research  in  the  Medical School fund.....................................  12,500
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, New York, New York;
Employee Matching Gifts (for six units) fund.............................  5,451




82


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


Ole Evinrude Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the Ole Evinrude fellowships in the
College of Engineering fund...........................................  6,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; Employee Matching Gifts (for
five units) fund.....................................................  9,150
William A. Garrison Estate; for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship fund  7,607
Gibbs Brothers Foundation, New York, New York; for scholarships and other support
in the College of Engineering fund......................................  7,500
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; for gastroenterology research in
the  M edical School fund..............................................  16,000
Carl B. Grawn Estate; for unrestricted support of the Law School fund...........  5,689
Douglas N. Higgins, Ypsilanti; Two parcels of land located in Pittsfield Township and
totalling 11.23 acres, for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan
fund..............................................................  49,800
John R. James Estate; for Alumni Association scholarships fund.................  18,923
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey; for medical care organization research in the School of Public Health fund..........................  5,738
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the Junior Year in Freiburg
Scholarships in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........... 15,000
William M. King, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for the Martin Luther King Memorial
Scholarships  fund....................................................  10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
Fund, for patient care activities in The University of Michigan Hospitals fund... 15,034
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana; for research in the Center for Research
on  Learning  and  Teaching  fund.........................................  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Fund  in  the  M edical School fund.......................................  5,485
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund in The University
of M ichigan  Hospitals  fund............................................  19,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the Mobil Scholarships in the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  5,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
research in the Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering fund..........  8,250
NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan; for solid state electronics research in the College of
Engineering  fund.....................................................  13,000
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Operhall, North Muskegon; for unrestricted support of the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  5,000
Paraid, Pasadena California; for comparative literature scholarships in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts fund...................................  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Schmidt, La Jolla California; for the Sharon Li Schmidt
Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music fund......................... 10,000
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek; for the Cleft Palate Clinic in
The University of Michigan Hospitals fund................................  10,000
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas; Employee Matching Gifts (for
nine  units)  fund......................................................  7,320
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I.
Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School fund.............................  8,952
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for a research fellowship in the
Medical School, and a dissertation fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts funds...................................         27,356
Margaret Earhart Smith Estate; for the Mary Malcolmson Raphael Endowment Fund,
Center for the Continuing Education of Women fund....................... 13,958
Alice A. Stoddard Trust; for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  10,768
Vivienne A. Swanson, Washington, D.C.; for the Dr. Clifford A. Swanson Medical
Scholarship  in  the Medical School fund..................................  10,000
A. Alfred Taubman, Troy; pledge payment for the Program in American Institutions,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Replacement Hospital
Project  funds........................................................  400,500
Mary Newland Taylor, Redford; for unrestricted support of the School of Social Work
fund...............................................................  6,000




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


83


Toray Industries (America), Inc., New York, New York; for support of the Macromolecular Research Center, Institute of Science and Technology fund............  5,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Solon, Ohio; for automotive transportation
research in the Institute of Science and Technology fund....................  5,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Benton Harbor-Saint Joseph, Benton Harbor; for Alumni Association scholarships and awards fund..................  9,500
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Jackson, Jackson; for Alumnae Council
Scholarships fund....................................................  6,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor; for scholarships in the
Department of Athletics fund..........................................  6,900
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, Saint Joseph; for the addition to the Earl V. Moore
Building, School of Music Campaign fund...............................  5,000
USV Pharmaceutical Corporation, Revlon Health Care Group, Tuckahoe, New York;
for pharmacology-cardiovascular research in the Medical School fund.........  5,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for the Warner-Lambert
Seminar, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the University
Musical Society  funds................................................  6,000
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for support of the
Minority Engineering Program, College of Engineering, and Employee Matching
Gifts (for six units) funds..............................................  11,750
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering fund................... 15,000
The following non-monetary, gifts in kind were received:
Bell Laboratories Division, American Telephone & Telegraph Company, Murray Hill,
New Jersey An automatic wafer inspection station; for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Eaton Corporation, Southfield, An Eaton Dynamatic, 25hp motor; for the Department
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Jack Faxon, Farmington Hills, A Ch'ing Dynasty vase, a Thai Buddha, a Zairian
textile box and a Gerome Kamrowski painting; for the Museum of Art
Helen M. Graves, 2,713 books and Journals; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Library
Frixos and Margaret Massialas, A John W. Mills bronze relief, entitled: "Water Polo
Player," given to The University of Michigan in honor of Regent Emeritus Eugene
Power
Vice President Cosovich filed his monthly report on development and
University relations.
CESF Report, UM-Dearborn
President Shapiro commented that he would like to interrupt the agenda
at this point for a brief statement by Professor Donald Anderson, chairman
of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) for the
Dearborn campus. He indicated that a budget request will be presented to
the Board at the next meeting; therefore it is appropriate to hear comments
from the three CESF committees prior to that time. The presentations from
the faculty for the Ann Arbor and Flint campuses will occur on Friday.
Professor Anderson expressed appreciation in behalf of the faculty at
Dearborn for the substantial good faith effort on the part of the administration towards providing a more equitable salary package this year. Although
the increase was substantial, the preliminary statistics show that salaries at
the associate and assistant professor levels are still at the lower end of the
scale in relationship to their peers.
Professor Anderson said that the Dearborn campus was one of the top
campuses in terms of compensation when he arrived at Dearborn in 1969. It




84


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


has been disappointing to see how the campus has slipped over the years,
and to see some very good friends on the faculty leave the institution. The
faculty looks forward to continued progress in the area of compensation.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Frances R. Cousens, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearbor, September 1, 1984 to April 30, 1985
Cheryl Easley, M.A., Assistant Professor of Nursing, appointed Interim Assistant Dean for
Undergraduate Studies, September 1, 1984
D. W. Edington, Ph.D., Professor of Physical Education, appointed Director of the Division of
Physical Education, October 1, 1984 through June 30, 1988
Dennis Flanagan, B.A., appointed the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism,
January 14, 1985 through February 1, 1985
Stephen J. Mathes, M.D., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Head of the Section of Plastic
and Reconstructive Surgery, also appointed Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology,
without tenure, October 1, 1984
Jonathan M. Rubin, M.D., Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure,
November 17, 1984
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSOR AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Robert S. Holbrook, reappointed Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, July 1, 1985
through June 30, 1987
Joyce P. Marcus, Associate Professor of Anthropology and Associate Curator appointed
Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of Latin American Archaeology,
Museum of Anthropology, January 1, 1985
Robert M. Warner, Professor of Library Science, with tenure, and Professor of History, with
tenure, also appointed Dean of the School of Library Science, April 15, 1985 for a five-year
term
Committee Appointments
The following committee appointments were approved:
Clements Library Committee of Management
Wilbur K. Pierpont, to complete term, through June 30, 1987, vice Robert B. Briggs, resigned
Cleveland Thurber, Jr. to complete term through June 30, 1987, vice James S. Schoff,
deceased
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Appointment of the following members for a one-year term effective October 1, 1984:
Mrs. John Alexander
Mrs. Noyes L. Avery, Jr.
Mrs. George G. Cameron
Mr. C. E. Frazer Clark, Jr.
Mr. Bly A. Coming
Dr. Thomas N. Cross
Dr. Duane N. Diedrich
Dr. Harlan H. Hatcher
Mr. Walter Hayes
Mr. Peter N. Heydon




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


85


Mr. Keith D. Jensen
Dr. Thomas C. Kingsley
Mr. James M. Klancnik
Mr. Wilbur K. Pierpont
Mr. Cleveland Thurber, Jr.
Mr. Roy M. Tolleson, Jr.
Mrs. Harriet Upton
Mr. John D. Wheeler
Clements Library Board of Governors
Appointment of Honorary members for a one-year term effective October 1, 1984:
Edward H. Bowen
William C. Finkenstaedt
Howard H. Peckham
Lee D. vanAntwerp
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Dr. Major M. Ash, Jr., for a three-year term, effective November 1, 1984 vice Dr. Frederick
G. Burgett, term expired
Dr. Robert E. Lorey, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, effective November 1, 1984
Recreation, Intramurals and Club Sports Advisory Committee
Professor Marilyn W. Woolfolk, to complete term through July 31, 1986, vice Dr. Sara C.
Heitshu, resigned
University Committee on Broadcasting
Professor Edward R. Lady, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor John
M. Lawler, term expired
Professor Rosemary Russell, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor Zelma
H. Weisfeld, term expired
Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
Dr. Raymond W. Ruddon, to succeed himself for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Professor Noreen M. Clark, to complete term through August 31, 1985, vice Professor Scott K.
Simonds, resigned due to other administrative duties
Professor Gene I. Higashi, to complete term through August 31, 1987, vice Professor Bruce
Chin resigned due to other administrative duties
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Professor Richard D. Alexander, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor
David G. Shappirio, term expired
Professor June M. Howard, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor George
I. Haddad, term expired
Professor Amnon Rosenthal, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1984, vice Professor
Avedis Donabedian, term expired
Mr. Jack Clark, student member, for a one-year term, effective July 1, 1984
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Dr. F. Thomas Juster, to complete term through December 31, 1985, vice Professor Harold
Johnson, resigned
UM-Dearborn Interdisciplinary Studies Executive Committee
Associate Professor Lars Bjorn (Behavioral Sciences Representative) to complete a term
through August 31, 1987
Professor Richard A. Krachenberg (School of Management Representative) to complete a term
through August 31, 1985
Associate Professor Chia-Hao Chang (Industrial and Systems Engineering Representative) to
complete a term through August 31, 1986
Professor Rosalyn Saltz (Divison of Education Representative) to complete a term through
August 31, 1986
Assistant Professor Diane C. Jones (Behavioral Sciences Representative) to complete a term
through December 31, 1986




86


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


Leaves of Absence
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for Krishnan
Radhakrishnan, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering; David Krantz,
Professor of Psychology, with tenure; and Karen Stuck Borda, M.D.,
Assistant Professor of Radiology.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Linda M. Abriola, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
Mahmood R. Azimi-Sadjadi, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Mary L. Brake, Ph.D., Nuclear Engineering
Jeffrey T. Dillingham, Ph.D., Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Paul K. Dresch, D. Phil., Anthropology
Photios G. Ioannou, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
Yung-Chia Lee, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Alireza H. Mohammadian, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearbon
Carol F. Moore, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Flint
Harry A. Newman, Ph.D., Accounting
Jwo Pan, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Ziv Ran, Ph.D., Mathematics
Thomas L. Schwenk, M.D., Family Practice
Bonnie J. Takasugi, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1984
Timothy D. Thomasma, Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering
Instructor
John P. McCoy, Jr., Ph.D., Pathology
Marilyn Tsao, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1984
William J. Warzak, Ph.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, September 4, 1984
Lecturer
Caludio Guerra-Vela, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Wade E. Martin, B.S., Economics, UM-Flint
Larry D. Roi, Ph.D., Family Practice
David W. Wright, B.S., Accounting
Visiting Professor
Sharaschandra R. Adke, Ph.D., Biostatistics
Klaus L. Berghahn, Dr.Phil., Germanic Languages and Literatures
Milan H. Cobble, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Rudolf Dolzer, S.D., Law
William L. Hylander, Ph.D., Dentistry
Alice M. Isen, Ph.D., Psychology
Kauko K. Makinen, Ph.D., Dentistry
Jacques M. Revel, Agregation, History
Visiting Associate Professor
Robert A. Benson, M.A., Architecture and Urban Planning
William F. Messier, Jr., D.B.A., Accounting
Visiting Assistant Professor
Lloyd M. Berliner, Ph.D., Statistics
Fima C. Klebaner, Ph.D., Statistics
Judith A. Lachman, J.D., Law
Steven P. Plotnick, Ph.D., Mathematics
Marita Rosch, Dr.Phil.Habil, Psychology




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


87


Adjunct Associate Professor
Milan Stitt, M.F.A., English Language and Literature
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Michele S. Johns, M.M., D.M.A., Music
Michael R. Kapetan, M.F.A., Art
J. Gordon Schleicher, Ph.D., Division of Education, UM-Dearborn
William C. Stallings, Ph.D., Chemistry
Janet Frey Talbot, Ph.D., Psychology
David H. Yun, Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearbom
Adjunct Lecturer
Jody L. Alexander, M.S., Management, UM-Dearborn
Louise M. Baldwin, M.A., Anthropology
Israel Barak, Ph.D., Sociology, UM-Dearborn
Joan Marie Brown, M.S., Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearbom
Barbara E. Bryant, Ph.D., Marketing
Daniel L. Buchanan, M.A., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom
Lyn Coffin, M.A.T., English Language and Literature
Thomas W. Collier, M.S., Residential College
John W. Dalida, M.A., Mathematics and Statistics
Raymond K. DeYoung, Ph.D., Psychology
Barbara A. Fiedler, A.B., Classical Studies
Louise W. Freymann, M.A., English Language and Literature
Michael Frierson, Ph.D., Communication and Program in Film and Video Studies
Phoebe Frosch, M.A., Women's Studies Program
Thomas M. Gibbons, M.A., Economics, UM-Dearbom
Nancy E. Good, M.A., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Paul M. Grams, Ph.D., Residential College
Bridget J. Gruber, M.S.W., Sociology, UM-Dearbor
Laquita M. Higgs, Ph.D., History, UM-Dearbor
David E. Hoegberg, B.A., Classical Studies
Patricia L. Johnson, Ph.D., Anthropology, UM-Dearborn
Michael J. Kenney, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Dearborn
Jeffrey D. Kleiman, M.A., History, UM-Flint
Karen L. Kleinfelder, M.A., Residential College
Donald J. Kubit, M.A., Communication
Laurie L. Lachance, M.A., Business Administration
Gregory W. Lanier, B.A., Classical Studies
Helen F. Levy, Ph.D., Residential College
Halina Loukopoulos, Ph.D., Spanish, UM-Dearborn
Cara S. Lown, M.A., Economics
Stephen A. Markel, M.A., History of Art
Michael C. Martin, M.A., Classical Studies
Michael Marx, M.A., Residential College
Ared Misirliyan, B.S.E., Slavic Languages and Literatures
Michael M. Moon, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Dearborn
Elizabeth B. O'Neal, B.A., Residential College
Terry R. Ostrom, Ph.D., Materials and Metallurgical Engineering
Anthony Owusu-Gyapong, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Dearbom
John G. Petranka, M.S., Biological Sciences
Paula Rabinowitz, M.A., Program in American Culture
Michael J. Riley, D.B.A., Finance
Peggy A. Russo, A.M., Humanities
Brian B. Schultz, M.S., Biological Sciences
Luis F. Sfeir-Younis, M.A., Sociology
Laura M. Shellberg, M.S., Biology, UM-Dearbom
Robert O. Simmons, A.M. Residential College
Carla M. Sinopoli, M.A., Anthropology
Barbara M. Sloat, Ph.D., Residential College
Tristine L. Smart, M.A., Anthropology




88


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


Sarah L. Snyder, B.A., Communication
Carol A. Sullivan, B.A., Architecture and Urban Planning
Clifford J. Vaida, M.A., Composition, UM-Dearbom
Kathy A. York, B.A., Economics
Mark A. Zimmerman, B.F.A., Art
Clinical Assistant Professor
Nancy S. Farrugia, M.S., Hospital Dentistry, also Clinical Instructor of Dental Hygiene
Stephen J. Riedy, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry
Clinical Instructor
Bonnie R. Dafoe, B.S.E., Dental Hygiene
Barbara R. Fuller, B.S.E.D., Dental Hygiene
Stephen J. Stefanac, D.D.S., Dentistry
Denice C. Stewart, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1984
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
George M. Ash, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Howard D. Baru, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor Dentistry
Heryl L. Beck, from Adjunct Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
David L. Boden, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Lecturer of Dentistry
Roger L. Bookwalter, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Patricia J. Boyette, from Visiting Lecturer to Lecturer, Theatre and Drama
Susan H. Carron, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Sister Barbara Cervenka, Assistant Dean, also appointed Adjunct Assistant Professor, School
of Art
Linda A. Dykstra, Visiting Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School also appointed Visiting
Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sherill J. Hines, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer of Philosophy, UM-Flint
Herbert N. Hood, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Gertrude E. Huntington, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer of Geological Sciences and
Anthropology
Roger G. Klungle, from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Industrial and
Systems Engineering
George W. McClure, Jr., from Visiting Assistant Professor of History, UM-Flint to Adjunct
Lecturer of Classical Studies
Richard J. Meldrum, from Associate Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry
Timothy A. Munger, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint
Frederick G. Peters, Assistant Professor of Humanities, also appointed Visiting Assistant
Professor of Engineering and Honors Program, UM-Flint
Donald F. Pierce, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Physics and Astronomy, UM-Flint
Francoise R. Tamres, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Chemistry
Jonathan P. Tyman, Adjunct Lecturer in Film and Video Studies; also appointed Adjunct
Lecturer in American Culture
Allan L. Wigfield, from Visiting Lecturer to Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective August 31, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Associate Professor
Joseph E. Chasteen, Dentistry
Richard G. Fiddian-Green, Surgery
Harvey K. Jacobson, Communication, also held title Interim Director for Health Sciences
Relations and Assistant to the Vice-President for Development and University Relations
Assistant Professor
James D. Douglass, Jr., Dentistry
Sherry M. Howie, English, UM-Flint, June 30, 1984
Donald M. Miller, Internal Medicine, August 31, 1984




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


89


Douglas R. Robbins, Psychiatry, September 25, 1984
Pauline C. Terrelonge, Political Science, June 30, 1984
Instructor
Alan N. Dengiz, Internal Medicine, August 5, 1984
Lecturer
Barbey N. Dougherty, English Compostion Board, May 31, 1984
Emily B. Golson, English Composition Board, May 31, 1984
Conrad J. Mason, Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, June 30, 1984
Clinical Instructor
Alessandro Giovanardi, Dentistry, August 10, 1984
Gary P. Hutnik, Dentistry, July 31, 1984
Mildred J. Tinker, Dentistry, April 30, 1984
Leaves of Absence
Three off-campus assignments, twenty-three sabbatical leaves, one scholarly activity leave, five leaves of absence without salary, two extended sick
leaves, seven retirement furloughs and one disability leave were reported to
the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIR
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of one faculty member.
The following retirement memoir was adopted:
JACK LAPIDES, Professor of Surgery and Head of the Section of Urology in the Medical
School, retired from active faculty status as of June 30, 1984, after a long and distinguished
career as a surgeon, teacher, and researcher.
Professor Lapides was born in Rochester, New York. He completed his undergraduate work
at The University of Michigan, receiving a B.A. degree in 1936, an M.A. degree in physiology
in 1938, and his M.D. degree in 1941. He was a Rockefeller Research Associate in the
Department of Physiology from 1936-38 and did his surgical and urologic training at The
University of Michigan, interrupted by military service as a flight surgeon in the Pacific Theatre
from 1941-46. He was a research fellow at The University of Chicago and the United States Public
Health Service, National Cancer Institute, following completion of his residency in urology.
In 1950 Professor Lapides returned to Michigan as Instructor in Urology and Chief of the
Urology Service at Wayne County General Hospital. He became Professor of Surgery in the Section
of Urology in 1964, and, in 1968, Head of the Section of Urology, a position he held until 1983.
Author of 198 scientific papers and two textbooks on urology as well as twenty-eight
chapters in textbooks, Professor Lapides used his background training in physiology to full
advantage. His major interests centered around the neurogenic bladder, incontinence, and
function of the upper urinary tract. His basic and clinical research, and his ability to commuicate
his findings to other urologists, led to profound changes in the management of the conditions
which he studied. One of the most significant advances in urology in the past twenty years was
the concept of management of the neurogenic bladder by intermittent self-catheterization. This
idea was developed and promulgated by Professor Lapides and is now the standard method for
treatment with vastly improved results.
During his distinguished career, Professor Lapides received multiple honors and awards and
participated actively in the national and international urologic societies. His urology residents,
in community and academic urology, are scattered throughout the world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished surgeon by naming him Professor Emeritus of Surgery.
VII. MEMORIALS
Vice President Kennedy reported the death of Carl Ray Proffer, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature. The following memorial statement
was adopted.




90


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


It is with profound sadness that the Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge the
loss of CARL RAY PROFFER, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, who died at
the age of 46 on September 24, 1984, after a two-year struggle with cancer.
Carl Proffer was a Michigan boy and a Michigan man. Born in Buffalo, N.Y., he grew up
in Bay City and came to Ann Arbor to do his undergraduate work in 1956. It was here that he
dropped his plans for varsity basketball and took up Russian, earning an A.B. with Highest
Distinction in 1960. In 1963 Carl emerged as the Slavic Department's first Ph.D. in literature.
After establishing himself as a teacher and scholar at Reed College and Indiana University, Carl
returned to Ann Arbor in 1970 as an Associate Professor, and was promoted to Professor in
1972.
Professor Proffer was an accomplished scholar best known for his books on Gogol and
Nabokov and his many articles, reviews and translations. He was also a talented teacher with
very high standards who served the University with great loyalty during his twelve years on the
faculty. In the Slavic Department he offered a wide range of courses, including undergraduate
surveys of Russian literature, upperclass lecture courses on Gogol, Dostoevsky, and Nabokov,
and graduate seminars on various periods of Russian literature including Russian Romanticism,
as well as a seminar on translation. Carl's energy was contagious, but he set a lofty example
which only the most dedicated could follow.
Outside the department, Carl served also within the Center for Russian and East European
Studies, where his occasional lectures were always packed, and in the Residential College,
where he taught undergraduate seminars. In the Literary College he offered a freshman seminar
on Russian civilization.
The Russians have a term "kabinetnyj professor" for the type of academic who is a
scholarly recluse-the sort of man who squirrels up in his study and dedicates his life to a
narrow, abstruse line of research, and who has little taste or enthusiasm for teaching, students,
and the real world. Carl Proffer, though he had a passion for research, was the complete
opposite of the "kabinetnyj professor". Carl was a professor of Russian literature to the world.
In his brief forty-six years he managed to redefine the dimensions of professorial activity in his
field. He studied at Moscow State University in 1962 and returned to the Soviet Union more
than ten times on research visits during his teaching career, entering the very literature he taught
by building up a network of friendships within the community of Soviet Russian literati both
before and after the emigrations of the 1970's, emigrations which drained the USSR of its most
promising writers and poets. Those writers and poets, and the thousands of Russian intellectuals
who eagerly read their works as unofficial literature in manuscript samizdat form, were later
delighted to find that there existed a channel for the publication of Russian literature via Ardis
Press, founded here in Ann Arbor by Carl and his wife Ellendea. Carl's and Ellendea's
publishing house put Ann Arbor on the map as world center for the publication, in Russian and
in English, of Russian literature of all periods-but especially of contemporary Soviet Russian
literature-from both sides of the Soviet frontier. And Carl also brought us Russians. Too long
to repeat here is the list of Russian emigre writers, poets, artists, musicians, ballet dancers, and
intellectuals who have made a pilgrimage to Ann Arbor because of Carl Proffer and Ardis Press.
Above all, in 1972 Carl brought us the leading Russian poet Joseph Brodsky, arranging a job for
Joseph as Poet-in-Residence at The University of Michigan within a week of his forced exile. After
Joseph there followed a series of Soviet emigre graduate students, many of them excellent indeed.
All roads lead home. We can be fiercely proud that Carl Proffer began and ended his career
at The University of Michigan. And it is not farfetched to predict that in the future many
grateful Russians and Americans interested in Russian literature, will visit Carl's grave in
Forest Hill cemetery; for Carl was truly a professor of Russian literature to the world, and his
name and the memory of his contributions to the field will live in perpetuity.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Public Policy Studies, August, 1984
add: Nancy Lazar Moore, A.B., North Park College and Theological Seminary




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


91


College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, August, 1984 (Russian and East European Studies)
add: Pauline Mary Tiffen, A.B., University of Reading, England
Master of Science, August, 1984 (Physics)
correct to show: Makoto Ikeda, B.S., Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Master of Arts, August, 1983 (Romance Languages and Literatures: French)
delete: Marie Jane Towler, A.B.
School of Education
Specialist in Education, December, 1974
add: Anna Maria Schroeder, B.S., Concordia Teachers College
Master of Arts, June 1963 (History)
add: Monica Margaret Yermak, A.B., Mercy College
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Mark Christopher Pieroni
Leslie Ann Rock
Lieselotte Ulrike Storbeck
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1984
add: Russell P. Herschelmann
Colin Andrew Underwood with Highest Distinction; Honors in Computer and Communication Sciences; High Honors in Mathematics
James Scott Westrum
Bachelor in General Studies, April 27, 1984
add: Lee Daniel Levine
Bachelor of Arts, December 20, 1983
add: Mary Louise Allen
Katherine J. Wandersee
Residential College
Bachelor of Arts, April 21, 1984 (History)
correct to show: John Michael Schloerb, High Honors in History
Nicholas Arnold Shufro, Honors in History
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Bachelor of Arts, April 26, 1983
correct to show: Wesley F. Priem, with Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, April 28, 1984
add: David Vandelinder
Degrees Confirmed
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred in August 1984.
Honorary Degree Recommendations Approved
The Regents approved the recommendation to confer an honorary degree
at the December 1984 Commencement exercises.
Henry Russel Lecturer Appointed
The Regents approved the appointment of Sidney Fine, Andrew Dickson
White Distinghuished Professor of History, as the Henry Russel Lecturer for
1985.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Financial Report, 1984
The Regents received the financial report for the University of Michigan
for the year ending June 30, 1984.




92


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


Schedule of Investments, 1984
The Regents received the schedule of investments for the year ending
June 30, 1984.
Revenue and Expenditure Report, Ten-Year Period
A report was reviewed, discussed and received by the Regents on certain
revenue and expenditure elements inflation adjusted over a ten-year period.
UMH Accounts Receivable Report
The Regents received the UM Hospitals semi-annual accounts receivable
report.
Blue Cross/Blue Shield/Major Medical Health Insurance
Vice President Brinkerhoff distributed a copy of the report that is
provided each year to faculty and staff which describes the individual's staff
benefits including the University's contribution. He then reviewed the request concerning the increase in University support for Blue Cross/Blue
Shield/Major Medical Health Insurance. The recommendation included: the
continuation of approximately 86% University contribution toward the health
benefits for faculty and staff, a sharing between the individuals and University participation, an increase from $142.00 to $162.00 for the University
contribution, and that a modest increase of $2.91 be attributed to staff
members. Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that in the interest of the cost
containment of health care, a mandatory second opinion on several surgical
procedures had been implemented, HMO options will be made available to
the Ann Arbor campus in a few months, and a number of other areas are
being explored.
Following further discussion, Regent Dunn moved to authorize the
increase in University support for Blue Cross/Blue Shield and Major Medical health insurance. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
This was followed by a brief recess.
Public Comments
Upon reconvening, the Regents heard comments from Jonathan Rose,
Student Legal Services attorney, on the nonacademic student code.
Easement Request, Biological Station Area
Vice President Brinkerhoff continued the order of business by reviewing
the request for an ingress/egress easement near the Biological Station in
Emmet County.
Regent Roach indicated that he had no objection to granting an easement, but suggested that the University should explore the possibility of a
trade. In his view, it seemed logical to trade a
portion of land along Douglas Lake Road for a portion of the 40 acres in
question in order to square off the parcel.
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated when the land was given to the
University, there was a clear stipulation that the land must always be used
for biological studies or it would revert to the state. Therefore, a trade could
not be accomplished unless there was agreement with the state.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


93


President Shapiro then suggested that the appropriate state official should
be contacted to indicate that, although the Regents have no objections to the
easement, they would like to explore the possibility of other arrangements or
to attach a condition to the easement.
Regent Brown stated that in his view, it was not appropriate to place a
restriction on land that the University does not own. If the University needs
the land, the University should condemn it or buy it, but should not attempt
to tell people what they can and cannot do with their property. The owners
are only asking for an easement which the University can restrict in the
sense that it is a request for ingress and egress.
President Shapiro indicated that action would be deferred until next
month after further exploration of the issue has taken place.
Real Property
Regent Roach moved authorization to accept the offer of the Carlton
Midway Motor Inn to purchase Lot 5, Block 12, Frederick H. Bartlett's
First Addition to City Addition, Cook County, Illinois, for $32,456.40. The
proceeds from this sale will be used to offset the amounts which have been
incurred for property taxes. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Renovations
Regent Brown moved to approve the project budget and to authorize
receiving construction bids for the renovation of the School of Business
Administration Building. Regent Vamer seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
A motion to approve proceeding with the completion of one floor of the
Law School underground library, and the renovation project for the Department of Microbiology and Immunology was moved by Regent Brown,
seconded by Regent Dunn and adopted.
X. OTHER
Capital Outlay Request, 1985-86
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the capital outlay request for 1985-86
for all three campuses.
President Shapiro reminded the Board that this was the time of year
when both the capital outlay and operating budgets for the next year must be
submitted to the state. The operating budget request will be on the agenda in
November. The actual form of presentation is determined by the state.
Questions arose concerning the two central energy plant projects for the
Flint campus and the order of priority for capital outlay projects. Vice
President Brinkerhoff explained that one of the central energy projects was
for a previously approved project for the conversion of the plant to a more
energy efficient method and the one listed in the capital outlay request
would provide for completion of the tunnel system, the circular system, and
the housing of some of the air conditioning facilities within the central
energy plant.
With respect to the order of priorities on the Ann Arbor campus, the first




94


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


would be the completion of the Engineering Building I, second, the Chemistry Building, and third, the Natural Science Building renovations. The
Chemistry Building is the first priority for new construction, but projects
that are already under construction must be listed as first priority since
funding for them is incomplete.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the 1985-86 Capital Outlay request
for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint campuses. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Kidney Lithotripsy Program
A motion to approve the recommendaton to establish a Kidney Lithotripsy
Program for clinical use at UM Hospitals and to submit a request for a
Certificate of Need (CON) was moved by Regent Power, seconded by
Regent Waters and adopted.
UMH New Programs
With respect to the item describing the new programs to be implemented
at UM  Hospitals, questions were raised concerning helicopter transport
service and the cost of the individual new programs. President Shapiro
indicated that an update on the helicopter service and the financial detail of
the new programs would be provided at a subsequent meeting.
Medical Staff Membership
The Regents approved the recommendation for appointments to medical
staff membership.
Membership, Engineering College/Engineering Research Council
Regent Nederlander moved approval for Institutional Engineering College Membership in Engineering College/Engineering Research Council for
UM-Dearborn. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Membership, Circle Michigan
The request to approve membership for the Henry Ford Estate-Fair Lane
in Circle Michigan was moved by Regent Dunn, seconded by Regent Power
and adopted.
Addition to Master List of Common Stock
Regent Brown moved to approve the addition of Illinois Tool Works
common stock to the University's master list. Regent Nederlander seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
UMH Communications Systems
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented upon the request for the awarding of contract for the communications systems for the replacement hospital
program, the Adult General Hospital, and the Ambulatory Care Facility. He
said that the proposals which were received were being analyzed at the
present time. In order to prevent any delay to the installation schedule, it
was recommended that award be made to the winning contractor(s) as soon
as the analysis has been completed.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the award of contract(s) to one or more




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


95


of the following qualified contractors for proposal package C002, CATV/
Broadband Cable: Clover Electronics, Detroit, Michigan; Hatfield-Harlan,
Cleveland, Ohio; Anixter Brothers, Inc., Skokie, Illinois; and Wedemeyer
Electronics Supply Co., Ann Arbor, Michigan. Regent Brown seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
The meeting was recessed.
Friday, October 19, 1984
Closed Meeting
The Regents met in closed session in the Regents' Room at 8:00 A.M.
pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act to consider a periodic
personnel evaluation of a public officer.
The meeting was opened to the public at 10:15 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, Varner and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President
Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and presented the Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984 as the first item on the agenda.
Telecommunications System Financing
Mr. Norman Herbert, University Investment Officer, reviewed in detail
the program for financing the acquisition, construction, and installation of
the telecommunications system.
Regent Dunn moved that the resolution be adopted and incorporated into
the minutes of this meeting that:
a) Authorizes the sale of the Regents of The University of Michigan,
Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984 in the original principal amount of $45,858,587 to John Nuveen & Co., Inc. for purchase price of $44,987,274, plus accrued interest on the Current
Interest Bonds from October 1, 1984 to the date of closing.
b) Approves and ratifies the form of the Official Statement and execution of the Official Statement.
c Authorizes certain officers to execute the Bonds and any other documentation necessary, expedient or proper, in connection with the
issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted unanimously by
Regents Baker, Dunn, Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner and Waters.
Regent Brown was absent for the vote.
The Resolution appears as Appendix A to these minutes.
Audit Report, External
Vice President Brinkerhoff then introduced John Roszak and Dick Stroger
of Price Waterhouse who would comment upon the management letter
concerning the audit report that had been submitted to the Regents and
would respond to any questions.
Mr. Roszak commented that in addition to the examination of the




96


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


complete financial statements, Price Waterhouse reviewed certain units,
such as UM Hospital, Intercollegiate Athletics, Alumni Association, and
certain residence halls where there are debt agreements requiring separate
statements. There have been separate statements prepared for the Medical
Service Plans which have been reviewed, but the work in that unit has not
been as significant in scope as in other units. There was one special project,
that has not been reported to the Regents as yet, which was requested by the
Dean of the Medical School. This involved a review of some financial
statements, a test of accounts receivable records, and disbursement records,
for the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Responses to the management letter have been received, and Price
Waterhouse is in agreement with the proposed actions and they are consistent with the auditor's recommendations.
There was further discussion regarding the accounts receivable procedure
in the medical service plans, student loan receivable reserve policies, equipment that will not be transferred to the new hospital, and the laxity in
passwords and access with respect to the computer system.
Mr. Roszak commented that the auditors had complete cooperation from
the officials of the University and complete access to the material requested.
Regent Baker indicated that the auditors should feel free to speak to the
Regents privately at any time. Mr. Roszak said that they recognize that
obligation and they would come to the Board whenever there is anything
that cannot be resolved with the University officials.
CESF Report, Ann Arbor
President Shapiro introduced Beth Reed, Associate Professor of Social
Work, who is chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty
(CESF) for the Ann Arbor campus.
In turn, Professor Reed introduced Arthur Wolfe, Associate Research
Scientist, UM Transportation Research Institute, Cheryl Easley, Assistant
Professor of Nursing and SACUA liaison to CESF, Joan Crary, Assistant
Research Scientist, Department of Economics, Nallapu Reddy, Professor of
Economics and CESF chair at UM-Flint, and Laina Savory, Research
Associate to the faculty senate.
Professor Reed reviewed briefly the establishment of CESF and the
compensation request made to the Regents last spring. She indicated that the
faculty have regained some of the ground that was lost through budget cuts
and reallocations, but the real salary levels today are still below those of the
1970s. This parallels the situation in many other public institutions and in
some private institutions as well. The growing divergence of salary patterns
between public and private universities is of some concern since the University of Michigan's patterns are increasingly resembling those of other
midwestern public institutions rather than those the University more often
identify as peer institutions in terms of the quality of scholarship and
research. The committee recognizes that there are many continuing budgetary difficulties, but urges continuing efforts to develop alternative means of
augmenting the monies available for the salary program. The committee is
very concerned and hopes that a salary program can be developed that does not
severely compromise the University's ability to attract and retain the best faculty.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


97


Other issues to be considered this year concern the circumstances of
annuitants and other aspects of the retirement and pension program, health
care benefits, including investigating the issues and options involved in
adding an HMO option to the health benefits package, and the implications
of this for the work of the periodic health appraisal unit, and for hospice
coverage which might be added to the fringe benefits package.
The practice of determining salary increases on a merit basis could lead
to increasing salary disparities among departments, schools, colleges, and
within units. One wonders if these increasing disparities will affect morale
and whether the University can sustain an overall high quality of productivity if large numbers of faculty fall below the mean in salary increments.
These issues are among those CESF will explore this year. Professor Reed
concluded by indicating the committee's wish to receive input and suggestions from the Board in order to provide the most useful information.
The discussion that ensued included the continuing priority of adequate
faculty compensation on the part of the administration, flexible benefits
option, and maternity and child care in the health care package.
Statement by Regent Baker re: Patient Care
Regent Baker then read the following statement.
More often than not, the Regents receive letters from patients or friends of patients critical
of the care provided in the University of Michigan Hospitals. Rarely do we hear from
correspondents of excellent care professionally provided. Yet proper care is the rule and not the
exception.
We sometimes lose sight of the positive results most patients receive from the University
Hospitals. We do not always recall the tremendous efforts of literally thousands of unheralded
hospital employees who go about their tasks in helping suffering people.
Recently, while in Detroit, I learned my wife had been admitted through the Emergency
Room to the University Hospitals. The telephone message was incomplete and hinted at severe
illness. Accurate diagnoses and prompt treatment proved that initial understanding incorrect,
but r would like to speak for a moment about that hospital experience.
Upon entering Ann Arbor from M-14 on North Main Street after a concerned hour's drive
from Detroit, I followed the newly paved route and was reminded of planning meetings held
years ago to discuss that road as a primary access road to the hospital. Climbing the hill through
the traffic and driving past Old Main, in the busy aftenoon, I was struck again by the fact that
the hospital complex is a city within a city devoted almost exclusively to the public good. After
parking in the new hospital parking structure, I remembered other planning sessions. Finally in
the hospital, I followed a nurse down into the depths of the basement of Old Main, knowing
that soon the new hospital would be complete. There I found my wife undergoing an important
medical exam utilizing new, sophisticated, computer based equipment operated by a careful
technician.
One has to be impressed with the efficiency and love expressed in this bustling city by its
nurses, technicians, doctors, staff members and others all cooperating to bring a sense of
healing and service to the patients.
Most patients are vulnerable. They need help and are dependent on the knowledge and
care of others. That needed care and knowledge are generously and tenderly provided. After
those few days in the hospital, Marilyn and I came away from the experience deeply moved and
indebted to all of those who work so hard to bring healing to the patients and their families in
the University Hospitals. Both of us offer our thanks and congratulations to those whose efforts
are often criticized and go unrecognized in spite of the very sensitive, compassionate and
important work they do.
The poet writes longingly of a shining city set on a hill. The people of our state truly have
their own shining city set on a hill-The University of Michigan Hospitals.




98


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Jean King, Ann Arbor attorney, and Lee Winkelman,
student, on the nonacademic student code; Justin Schwartz, graduate student, Ingrid Kock, student, and Nancy Aronoff, on the Nuclear Free Zone.
Nuclear Free Zone
Regent Roach indicated that he would like to comment, particularly in
view of our discussion yesterday with respect to the Nuclear Free Zone. To
the best of his recollection, of all of the matters of specific research that
were referred to, at least two out of three were not classified research. They
are only indirectly related to nuclear weapons, if at all. While Justin
Schwartz and Professor Axelrod purport to say that this proposed nuclear
free zone does nothing more than enforce our University policy against
classified research, it is quite clear that it does not. In fact, it is intended to
ban research which is not classified but is in the field of science and only
indirectly related to these matters. Regent Roach said that there is a degree
of either misunderstanding or lack of intellectual honesty concerning the
issue.
All of the above transactions are by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
October totaled $2,056.66.
The Regents adjourned to meet on November 15 and 16, 1984.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




APPENDIX A
Resolution Authorizing Issuance and Sale of
$45,858,587 Telecommunications System           Bonds
Series 1984
Adopted October 19, 1984
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BONDS IN THE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT OF $45,858,587 TO FINANCE THE COST OF ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF A UNIVERSITY-WIDE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY
OF THE BONDS AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
needs of students attending The University of Michigan, the Regents of the University of
Michigan (the terms "Regents" and "University" hereinafter refer to the Regents or the
University or both as the context permits or requires) have authorized the acquisition, construction and installation of a University-wide telecommunications system, (hereinafter referred to as
the "Project"), which is now in the process of acquisition and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures
of the University's funds and manage the University's outstanding debt, the Regents deem it
necessary and advisable to issue Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984 (hereinafter
defined as the "Bonds") in the original principal amount of Forty Five Million Eight Hundred
Fifty Eight Thousand Five Hundred Eighty Seven Dollars for the purpose of paying the cost of
acquiring, constructing and installing the Project, and paying the expenses incidental to the
issuance of the Bonds, including paying interest on the Bonds to April 1, 1986, and funding a
necessary Reserve Fund for the Bonds in the amount of $6,878,788 and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project will serve proper and appropriate public purposes;
and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured by a pledge of and
first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right to incur additional obligations similarly
secured, upon conditions specified in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred
obligations, essentially as follows, to wit:
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last two
preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such additional Parity
Obligations are equal to at least 200% percent of the maximum annual principal and
interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed
additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the proposed additional
Parity Obligations are scheduled to be outstanding."
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements precedent to the issuance of the Bonds have
been met, as shown by audit reports of the University for each of its last two preceding fiscal
years, 1982-83 and 1983-84; and
WHEREAS, the Regents have been created as a constitutional body corporate under the
provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and the Regents
have full power under their constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and
control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to construct the Project, to pay
the cost of the acquisition, construction and installation of the Project by issuance of the Bonds,
and to pledge Student Fees for payment of the Bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:


99




100


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following terms shall
have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Appreciated Principal Amount" means, with respect to any Capital Appreciation Bond, on
April 1 and October 1 of each year (until scheduled maturity) the principal amount set forth on
Exhibit A attached hereto for each $5,000 principal amount of such Bond if held to maturity (as
shown on the face of the Bond). The Appreciated Principal Amount with respect to any date
other than on April 1 and October 1 is the Appreciated Principal Amount on the next preceding
April 1 or October 1, as the case may be, plus the fraction of the difference between the
Appreciated Principal Amount on such next preceding April 1 or October 1 and the next
succeeding April or October 1 that equals the ratio of the number of days from such next
preceding April 1 or October 1 to the date of determination to the total number of days from
such next preceding April 1 or October 1 to the next succeeding April 1 or October 1.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the $45,858,587 initial aggregate principal amount of Regents
of the University of Michigan Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984, including,
$5,898,587 Original Principal Amount of the Capital Appreciation Bonds, all to be issued
under the Resolution.
"Bond Purchase Agreement" means the Bonds Purchase Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, between the University and the Purchasers, represented by the Representative, pursuant
to which the Bonds shall be sold by the University to the Purchasers.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Telecommunications System Bonds,
Series 1984 Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered
owner of any Bond.
"Capital Appreciation Bonds" means the Bonds maturing on April 1 in each year 1995 and
1996.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1 and
ending on June 30.
"Funds Legally Available Therefor" means any moneys of the University that may be
legally used by the University to pay principal of, and interest on, the Bonds, but shall not
include any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future
loans or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of which would
result in the loan herein authorized being construed as indebtedness of the State of Michigan
under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Interest Payment Date" means each April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 1985,
during the period of the Bonds are outstanding.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received, earned
through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund.
The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" mean, as of any date, all Bonds
delivered under the Resolution, except (i) Bonds theretofore acquired by the University and
cancelled and (ii) Bonds for which the University shall have made provision for payment in
accordance with the Resolution by depositing with the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent
cash or cash and Government Obligations (as defined in Section 702 thereof), the principal of
and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest on said Bonds
as the same become due through maturity.
"Original Principal Amount" means the aggregate original amount at which each maturity
of the Capital Appreciation Bonds shall be initially offered to the public, as set forth in Section
302 of this Resolution.
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations of the University
secured by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, including the existing Parity
Obligations specified in Section 501 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued by
the University from time to time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Project" means the project referenced in the preambles hereto.
"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Telecommunications System Bonds,
Series 1984 Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Purchaser" means John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, the purchaser of the Bonds.
"Regents" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body corpo



OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


101


rate having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures
from its funds.
"Reserve Fund" means the University of Michigan Telecommunications System Bonds,
Series 1984 Reserve Fund established by Section 403 hereof.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary
hereto in accordance with the terms thereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time to time by the
University, and collected from the students attending any campus of the University which fees
range in 1984-85 from a minimum of $2,172 per term for an undergraduate resident student to
$11,312 per term for a non-resident full time medical student.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the
provisions of Section 305 or 308.
"University" means the University of Michigan and/or the Regents as the context requires
or permits.
ARTICLE II
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS; PROJECT LIFE
Section 201 Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Regents in the exercise of their
powers and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and
direction of all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5
of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determine that the issuance of the Bonds for the
purposes set forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable the
Regents to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction and installation of the Project.
Section 202 Estimated Period of Usefulness of the Project. The estimated period of
usefulness of the Project is determined to be not less than 12 years, the final maturity of the
Bonds.
ARTICLE III
THE BONDS
Section 301 Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes set forth in
Article II, there shall be borrowed Forty Five Million Eight Hundred Fifty Eight Thousand Five
Hundred Eighty Seven Dollars ($45,858,587), and in evidence thereof there shall be issued the
Bonds of the Regents which shall be designated "Telecommunications System Bonds, Series
1984", in the initial aggregate principal amount of $45,858,587 (including Capital Appreciation Bonds in an Original Principal Amount of $5,898,587). The Bonds shall bear interest as
specified herein; provided, however, the Capital Appreciation Bonds shall not bear interest
(except to the extent the difference between the Original Principal Amount and the aggregate
Appreciated Principal Amount may be construed to be interest) prior to or on the date when the
Appreciated Principal Amount becomes due by reason of maturity. In the event the Appreciated
Principal Amount of a Capital Appreciation Bond is not paid or deemed to be paid by the
University on the date when due, such Bond shall bear interest on such Appreciated Principal
Amount from such Bond shall bear interest on such Appreciated Principal Amount from such
date at the rate equal to the yield per annum for the maturity of the Bond specified in Section
302 until the Appreciated Principal Amount is paid or deemed to be paid by the University.
Section 302 Limited Obligations and Other Bond Terms. The Bonds shall be limited
obligations of the Regents equally and ratably and solely secured by Student Fees and any
moneys in the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund, and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the
State of Michigan or a general obligation of University.
The Bonds, other than Capital Appreciation Bonds, shall be issued in fully-registered form
in the denomination of $5,000 on integral multiples thereof not exceeding the aggregate
principal amount of the Bonds maturing in any one year and shall be numbered consecutively
from 1 upwards. The Capital Appreciation Bonds shall be issued as fully registered bonds in
denominations which appreciate to Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) upon maturity as set forth
below, or any integral multiple thereof, not exceeding the aggregate Appreciated Principal
Amount at maturity for any one year. The Capital Appreciation Bonds maturing April 1, 1995
shall be lettered A and shall be numbered consecutively from 1 upwards and the Capital
Appreciation Bonds maturing April 1, 1996 shall be lettered B and shall be numbered
consecutively from 1 upwards.




102


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


The Bonds other than the Capital Appreciation Bonds shall bear interest from the date
thereof payable April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 1985, until payment of the
principal amount thereof shall have been duly made as herein required or permitted, shall be
dated as of October 1, 1984, and shall bear interest at the rates and mature serially on April 1 of
each year in the prinicipal amounts, as follows:
Interest
Year                      Amount                      Rate
1987                    $2,820,000                    7.00%
1988                     2,060,000                    7.60
1989                     4,405,000                    7.90
1990                     4,835,000                    8.20
1991                     5,285,000                    8.60
1992                     6,265,000                    8.90
1993                     7,055,000                    9.10
1994                     7,235,000                    9.30
The Capital Appreciation Bonds shall be dated as of the date of original delivery thereof and
shall be in the denomination of the following respective original principal amounts, representing
$5,000 Appreciated Principal Amount at maturity, or any integral multiple of that sum:
Original
Principal                        Total            Total
(per $5,000      Total           Appreciated
Appreciated      Original        Principal
Principal        Principal       Amount (at
Amount at        Amount          Maturity
Maturity Date      Maturity         Per Maturity    of Bonds)            Yield
April 1, 1995      $1,809.35        $3,075,895      $ 8,500,000          10%
April 1, 1996       1,641.10         2,822,692        8,600,000           10
Total                               $5,898,587      $17,100,000;provided, however, that the table set forth above is based on the assumption that the Bonds
will be delivered on November 1 1984, and may, in addition, contain minor arithmetic errors in
computation. In the event such errors are contained in the table set forth above, or the Bonds
cannot be delivered on November 1, 1984, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the University is hereby authorized to adjust the Original Principal Amount per $5,000
Appreciated Principal Amount at maturity and the total Original Principal Amount per maturity
of the Bonds as set forth above so that the total original amount per maturity, when compounded at the yield specified above for that maturity, from the date of delivery of the Bonds,
produces the total Appreciated Principal Amount at maturity of the Bonds for the specified
maturity as set forth above, but in making such adjustments, the total Original Principal
Amount may not be increased or decreased by more than $20,000.
The principal amount (including the Appreciated Principal Amount) of the Bonds shall be
payable upon surrender thereof at a bank or trust company designated by the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University as registar and paying and transfer agent for the
Bonds, or its successor (the "Transfer Agent"). Interest on the Bonds which bear interest shall
be payable by check or bank draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to the registered owner at the
registered address, both as shown on the registration books for the Bonds maintained by the
Transfer Agent. Interest shall be payable when due to the person or entity who is, as of 15th
day of the month prior to each interest payment date, the registered owner of record.
Section 303 Execution, Authentication and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed in the
name of and on behalf of the University by facsimile signature of its Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or its Controller printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. No Bond shall be
valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of the Transfer Agent. The Bonds,
when executed and authenticated, shall be delivered by the Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer or the Controller to the purchaser thereof upon payment of the purchase price therefor
specified in Section 1001 hereof. Executed blank Bonds for registration of transfer shall be
delivered to the Transfer Agent for safekeeping concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds,
and from time to time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


103


be such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, either as part of the initial delivery of the
Bonds or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid
and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The
Transfer Agent's certificate of authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have been
executed by it if signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be
necessary that the same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds issued
hereunder.
Section 304. Redemption of Bonds. The Bonds shall not be subject to redemption prior to
maturity.
Section 305 Form of Issuance and Transfer of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be issued in the
form of fully-registered bonds without coupons. Any Bond may be transferred upon the books
required to be kept pursuant to this section by the person in whose name it is registered, in
person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the Bond for cancellation,
accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved
by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond or Bonds shall be surrendered for transfer, the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University shall execute or cause
to be executed, as specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a new
Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount, or in like aggregate Appreciated Principal
Amount at maturity in the case of Capital Appreciation Bonds, and with like interest rate or
principal appreciation schedule, and maturity. The Transfer Agent shall require the payment by
the Bondholder requesting the transfer of any tax or other governmental charge required to be
paid with respect to the transfer.
The Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient books
for the registration and transfer of the Bonds, which shall at all times be open to inspection at
reasonable times by the University and its auditors of their designees; and, upon presentation
for such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under such reasonable regulations as it may
prescribe, transfer or cause to be transferred, on said books, Bonds as hereinbefore provided.
The form of the Bonds shall be substantially as follows:
(Form of Bond Other Than Capital Appreciation Bond)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM BOND
SERIES 1984
No. __       Date of Maturity:.   Principal Amount:
Interest Rate:       Date of Original Issue: October 1, 1984
Registered Holder:
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by and
existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan (the "University"), for value
received, hereby promises to pay the Principal Amount shown above the Registered Holder or
registered assigns, in lawful money of the United States of America on the Date of Maturity
shown above, with interest thereon until paid, from October 1, 1984 or such later date through
which interest on the Bond in exchange for which this Bond has been issued has been paid at
the Interest Rate shown above, first payable April 1, 1985, and semiannually thereafter on
October 1 and April 1. Principal of this bond is payable at the principal office of,
in, Michigan (the "Transfer Agent") or such other transfer agent as the University
may hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered owner not less than 60 days prior to
any interest payment date. Interest on this bond is payable by check or draft mailed by the
Transfer Agent to the person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each
interest payment date, the registered owner, at the registered address.
This bond is one of an issue of bonds (the "Bonds"), including certain Capital Appreciation
Bonds which bear no interest but increase in principal amount over time, all as provided in the
Resolution identified below, of like tenor, except as to date of issue, denomination, rate of
interest, if any, and date of maturity, aggregating the principal amount of $, including
with respect to the Capital Appreciation Bonds the original principal amount of $., all




104


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by the University on  _, 1984 (the "Resolution"),
for the purpose of paying part of the cost of the acquisition, construction and installation of a
University-wide telecommunications system, funding a reserve fund for the Bonds paying
interest accruing on the Bonds to,       and paying cost incidental to the
issuance of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested in the University by law,
particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of
the sums derived from the collection of Student Fees (defined in the Resolution) from the
students attending the University. The University has covenanted and agreed to establish and
maintain Student Fees to be collected in an amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to
at least two hundred percent of the maximum future annual debt service requirements on all
outstanding bonds or obligations payable on a first lien basis therefrom. The Bonds are also
secured by a Reserve Fund to be funded on the date of delivery of the Bonds from the proceeds
of the Bonds. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or
premium on this Bond or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the University
or any officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor shall these
obligations become a lien on or be secured by any property, real personal or mixed, of the State
of Michigan or the University, other than the Student Fees, the Reserve Fund and the Bond
Fund, as more fully defined in the Resolution. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other
recourse.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the funds from
which and the conditions under which this bond is payable, the general covenants and
provisions pursuant to which this bond is issued, the outstanding obligations of the University
which have an equal claim on the Student Fees with the Bonds, the rights of the holders of
Bonds, and the right of the University to issue additional obligations of equal standing and
priority of lien on the Student Fees with the Bonds, and the terms and conditions under which
this bond and the series of Bonds of which this is one, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to
be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the above described Resolution. A certified copy
of the Resolution is on file at the Investment Office of the University.
The Bonds shall not be subject to redemption prior to maturity.
Any Bond may be transferred by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by
his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation,
together with a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer
Agent. Whenever any Bond is surrendered for transfer, the Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer or the Controller of the University shall execute or cause to be executed, and the
Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal
amount, (or like Appreciated Principal Amount at maturity in the case of Capital Appreciation
Bonds) and with like interest rate or principal appreciation schedule and maturity. The Transfer
Agent shall require the bondholder requesting the transfer to pay any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer.
This Bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's Certificate of
Authentication on this Bond has been duly executed by the authorized signatory Transfer
Agent.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to
be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond, have been
done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this Bond
to be signed for it and in its behalf by the facsimile signature of its, all as of October 1,
1984.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
By
Its
Certificate of Authentication
This is to certify that the within Bond is one of the Regents of the University of Michigan
Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984, described in the Resolution herein referred to.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


105


Date of                                 By
Authentication:                                       Authorized Agent
[Form of Assignment]
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
the within Bond of
the Regents of the University of Michigan
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
Attorney to transfer the said Bond on the books of the within-named
Corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated: 
In the presence of:
Signature(s) Guaranteed
Note: The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the
face of this Bond in every particular.
(Form of Capital Appreciation Bond)
(Set forth below is the heading and the First paragraph of the Capital Appreciation Bond
form. The other paragraphs are the same as the form of Bond other than Capital Appreciation
Bond.)
No.
$
("Initial Principal Amount")
Date of Maturity
Date of Original Issue
$
(Appreciated Principal Amount at Maturity)
Registered Holder _
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM BOND
SERIES 1984
(Capital Appreciation Bond)
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by and
existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan (the "University"), for value
received, hereby promises to pay to the Registered Holder, or registered assigns, on the Date of
Maturity, the Appreciated Principal Amount at Maturity shown above, upon the presentation
and surrender hereof at the principal office of, in, Michigan (the
"Transfer Agent") or such other transfer agent as the University may hereafter designate by
notice mailed to the registered owner not less than 60 days prior to the Date of Maturity shown
above. The Appreciated Principal Amount of this Bond is payable in lawful money of the
United States of America. Interest shall not be paid on this Bond except in the case of the
failure of the University to deposit the Appreciated Principal Amount with the Transfer Agent
upon the Date of Maturity, in which case such amount owing on this Bond shall thereafter bear
interest at the rate of _.% per annum from the Date of Maturity, until such amount plus
interest is deposited with the Transfer Agent.
everse Side of Capital Appreciation Bond)
(Reverse Side of Capital Appreciation Bond)




106


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


The Appreciated Principal Amount for this Bond as of any April 1 or October 1 is
determined by dividing the Appreciated Principal Amount at Maturity on the face hereof by
$5,000 and multiplying the result thereof by the applicable amount set forth below:
Year     April 1         October 1      Year     April 1         October 1
$               $                       $              $
The Appreciated Principal Amount of this Bond on a date other than April 1 or October 1 is
the Appreciated Principal Amount on the next preceding October 1 or April 1 plus the fraction
of the difference between the Appreciated Principal Amount on the next preceding October 1 or
April 1 and the next succeeding April 1 or October 1 that equals the ratio of the number of days
from the next preceding October 1 or April 1 to the date of determination to the total numbers
from the next preceding October 1 or April 1 to the next succeeding April 1 or October 1.
Section 306 Mutilated Bonds. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1972, as amended ("Act 354"), if any bond shall become mutilated, the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University, at the expense of the
holder of the Bond, shall execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified above, and
the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor in exchange and
substitution for the mutilated bond, upon surrender to the Transfer Agent of the mutilated Bond
and receipt by the Transfer Agent and the University of indemnity satisfactory to them. Subject
to and in accordance with Act 354, if any bond issued under this Resolution shall be lost,
destroyed or stolen, evidence of the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer
Agent and, if this evidence is satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the University and
indemnity satisfactory to the Transfer Agent and the University shall be given, the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller, at the expense of the owner, shall
execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall
thereupon authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor and bearing the statement required
by Act 354, or any applicable Michigan law thereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution for
the Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Bond shall have matured or shall be about to
mature, instead of issuing a substitute bond the Transfer Agent may pay the same without
surrender thereof.
Section 307 Cancellation of Bonds. All Bonds which have been retired by maturity,
redemption or purchase shall be cancelled by the Transfer Agent and an appropriate certificate
of cancellation with respect thereto delivered to the University. Upon request of the University
all cancelled Bonds shall be cremated and an appropriate certificate of cremation delivered to
the University by the Transfer Agent.
Section 308 Resignation of Transfer Agent. The Transfer Agent may resign by giving not
less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the University, and the University may remove
the Transfer Agent by giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Transfer
Agent. The University shall designate a successor Transfer Agent and shall mail notice of the
appointment of the successor Transfer Agent to each registered owner of the Bonds not less
than sixty (60) days prior to the next interest payment date. Upon the appointment of a succesor
Transfer Agent, the predecessor Transfer Agent shall transfer all moneys and funds, the
registration books, and all other documents and instruments relating to the bonds held by it as
Transfer Agent to the successor Transfer Agent.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401 Establishment of Project Fund. There is hereby created and established the
Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account of the University
designated by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the
Project Fund (i) all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds, except accrued interest to be deposited
in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 402 and the proceeds to be deposited in the Reserve Fund
pursuant to Section 403, (ii) all investment earnings on investments of the Project Fund and (iii)
all investment earnings on investments of the Reserve Fund and the Bond Fund prior to
completion of the Project. All moneys in the Project Fund shall be used for the purposes and
disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 402 Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created and established with the
Transfer Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


107


1. Any accrued interest received at the time of delivery of the Bonds, together with such
additional amounts as shall be necessary to pay interest on the Bonds to April 1, 1986.
2. Student Fees as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond Fund at the times and in
the amounts provided in Section 602.
3. All Funds Legally Available Therefor authorized or permitted to be paid into the Bond
Fund pursuant to Section 603.
4. All Investment Income, except as otherwise provided in Section 505.
5. Any moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements provided for in
Article V.
6. Any moneys required to be deposited in the Bond Fund from the Reserve Fund as
provided in Section 504.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article V.
Section 403 Establishment of Reserve Fund. There is hereby created and established with
the Transfer Agent the Reserve Fund. There shall be desposited in the Reserve Fund from the
proceeds of the sale of the Bonds a sum equal to Six Million Eight Hundred Seventy Eight
Thousand Seven Hundred Eighty Eight Dollars ($6,878,788). All moneys in the Reserve Fund
shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article V.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501 Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon the receipt thereof, the
proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned among and deposited in the Project
Fund, the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund in the following manner:
1. Any accrued interest received on sale of the Bonds, together with such additional
amounts as shall be necessary to pay interest on the Bonds to April 1, 1986 shall be
deposited in the Bond Fund;
2. A sum equal to $6,878,788 shall be deposited in the Reserve Fund; and
3. The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Project Fund.
Section 502. Use of and Disbursements from Project Fund. Moneys in the Project Fund
shall be used pursuant to the following purposes:
1. Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing and other expenses of the
University in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds;
2. Payments necessary to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction, installation,
furnishing and equipping of the Project or to reimburse the University for general funds
expended in connection with the foregoing.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall, as
directed by the University, be promptly transferred to the Bond Fund or used by the University
for payment of any other lawful capital costs of the University as determined by the University.
The depository for the Project Fund shall make disbursement from the Project Fund upon the
order of the University, and shall have no duty or liability with respect to the manner or method
in which moneys are withdrawn by the University from the Project Fund or in fact are used or
applied by the University.
Section 503 Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. The Transfer Agent shall use
moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal and interest on the Bonds as the same become due
and the Bonds are presented and surrendered. The Transfer Agent may use moneys in the Bond
Fund for the acquisition of Bonds in the open market at the written direction of the University.
Any amount remaining in the Bond Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made
therefor under the Resolution shall be returned to the University.
Section 504 Use of and Disbursements from Reserve Fund. If at any time there are not
sufficient funds in the Bond Fund for the payment of principal and interest on the Bonds as the
same become due, the Transfer Agent shall withdraw from the Reserve Fund and deposit in the
Bond Fund sufficient moneys which when added to the moneys in the Bond Fund will be
sufficient to meet the payment of principal and interest then due on the Bonds. The University




108


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


covenants and agrees that if at any time moneys are withdrawn from the Reserve Fund for such
purpose, there shall be promptly deposited from time to time in the Reserve Fund from the first
Student Fees received thereafter which are not required to make principal or interest payments
on Parity Obligations, a sum sufficient to replace the amount so withdrawn to the level then
required. To the extent that Student Fees shall not be sufficient for such replacement and for the
replacement of withdrawals from reserves for other Parity Obligations of the University, the
amount deposited in the Reserve Fund in accordance herewith shall be in proportion to the total
requirements for replacement of withdrawals from reserves for other Parity Obligations and
shall be measured by the principal amount of Parity Obligations at the time outstanding.
At the written direction of the University the moneys in the Reserve Fund shall be finally
transferred to the Bond Fund by the Transfer Agent and applied in payment of the Bonds and
interest thereon at such time as the balance in the Reserve Fund, together with any amount in
the Bond Fund, shall be sufficient for payment in full of the principal of all Bonds, including
interest thereon through maturity, and payment of all fees and expenses owing to the Transfer
Agent. Any balance remaining thereafter in the Reserve Fund shall be returned to the University
by the Transfer Agent.
Section 505 Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until required for use,
and in the Reserve Fund may be invested by Transfer Agent in direct obligations of, or
obligations to the principal and the interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of
America; or obligations of Federal Farm Credit Banks, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal
National Mortgage Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the
Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the
Bank of Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association; or may be deposited in a bank or banks (including
the Transfer Agent) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances or
in certificates of deposit as shall be directed by the University.
Interest or profit earned on the above investments or deposit, when received (but excluding
all investment earnings on investments of the Reserve Fund and the Bond Fund received prior
to completion of the Project, which shall be deposited in the Project Fund) shall be deposited in
the Bond Fund. Any loss on the above investments or deposits shall be charged to the Fund for
which such investment or deposit was made.
Moneys held in the Project Fund may be invested in any investments legally available for
University funds.
Section 306 Arbitrage. The University shall make no use of the proceeds of the sale of the
Bonds, or of any other funds deemed to be proceeds of the Bonds pursuant to ~103(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the regulations propounded thereunder (the
"Code"), which could cause the Bonds to be or become "arbitrage bonds" as defined in the
Code.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 601 Securityfor the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or general obligations of the
State of Michigan, nor general obligations of the University, but are limited obligations of the
University equally and ratably secured only by the following:
1. All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2. All moneys in the Reserve Fund:
3. Student Fees and the University's right to receive Student Fees; and
4. All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The University hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security interest in all of the
foregoing, and in order to assure this security the University covenants and agrees that the
Bondholders shall have a first lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, and that
Bondholders shall have a first lien against Student Fees of equal standing and priority of lien
with the pledge of Student Fees for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity
Obligations which the University reserves the right to issue under Article VII and the existing
(as of October 1, 1984) Parity Obligations of the University, as follows:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


109


1. University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount-$5,800,000
Date-February 1, 1966
Final Maturity-April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$3,080,000
2. Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount-$2,000,000
Dated-July 1, 1969
Final Maturity-April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$1,215,000
3. Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Bonds*
Original Amount-$6,170,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$5,270,000
4. Recreational Activities Buildings
Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$6,590,000
Dated-July 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$6,590,000
5. Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$3,500,000
Dated-April 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$3,385,000
6. Dearborn Campus Project Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$10,180,000
Dated-July 1, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$10,110,000
7. Flint University Center Term Loan
Original Amount-$400,000
Dated-September 22, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$140,000
8. North Ingalls Building Fee Bonds?
Original Amount-$2,900,000
Dated-April 1, 1981
Final Maturity-April 1, 1991
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$2,900,000
9. Parking Structure Fee Bonds**
Original Amount-$7,000,000
Dated-October 1, 1981
Final Maturity-April 1, 2002
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$6,800,000
10. Construction Fee Bonds**
Original Amount-$11,200,000
Dated-February 1, 1982
Final Maturity-April 1, 2004
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$9,075,000
11. Student Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$21,070,000
Dated-May 1, 1983
Final Maturity-April 1, 2003
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$19,050,000




110


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


12. Construction Projects Fee Bonds Series 1983
Original AMount-$20,675,000
Dated-November 1, 1983
Final Maturity-April 1, 1988
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1984)-$18,885,000
[*Qualified to the extent that certain investment securities acquired with the proceeds of the
above-referenced $6,590,000 Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds are sufficient to retire the outstanding Recreational Activities Fee Bonds as they mature or are subject to
redemption on October 1, 1985.]
[**Qualified to the extent that certain investment securities acquired with the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds are sufficient to retire the outstanding Parking Structure Bonds as they mature
or are subject to redemption on April 1, 1991, and the outstanding Construction Fee Bonds as
they mature or are subject to redemption on April 1, 1992.]
The lien of the pledge of the Student Fees, and on the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund, shall
be valid and binding from the date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or
properties subject thereto which are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien
of the pledge without physical delivery or further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and
binding against all parties having claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the University
(except for the holders of any other indebtedness of the University payable from a first lien on
Student Fees) irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Section 602 Student Fees as Source of Payment of Bonds. To the extent that on the fifth
day preceding any Interest Payment Date the moneys then on deposit in the Bond Fund are not
sufficient to meet the interest or principal and interest payment coming due on such Interest
Payment Date, the University shall, commencing March 26, 1985, and on each subsequent fifth
day preceding each Interest Payment Date while the Bonds remain outstanding, pay to the
Transfer Agent for deposit into the Bond Fund all Student Fees thereafter received until the
amount on deposit in the Bond Fund is sufficient to pay the interest, principal, if any, and
premium, if any, coming due on the Bonds by maturity or call for optional redemption on such
Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that in making the payment over to the Transfer
Agent, Student Fees shall be divided pro rata between the Bond Fund and any similar fund for
the payment of other obligations of the University secured by a first lien on Student Fees, to the
extent necessary to effect the pari passu basis of the lien on Student Fees. Subject to the above
requirements, the University shall have and retain the full right and ability to receive, collect,
expend, invest, use or otherwise hold or dispose of Student Fees as the University deems
appropriate.
Section 603 Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment for the Bonds.
The University reserves the right, but shall not be required, to use any Funds Legally Available
Therefor for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the Bonds.
Section 604 Covenant re: Student Fees. The Borrower covenants and agrees that as long
as any of the Bonds remain outstanding and unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it will
establish and maintain Student Fees to be collected from the students attending the University in
an amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least two hundred percent 200%) of
the maximum future annual debt service requirements on all outstanding bonds or obligations
payable on the first lien basis from said Student Fees or allocations therefrom, and sufficient to
provide such sums as are necessary, together with other available funds, for the operation,
administration and maintenance of the University and its facilities and programs.
Section 605 Limitations of Obligations. No recourse under any obligation, covenant,
stipulation or indenture contained in this Resolution or in any Bond issued hereunder or caused
by the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had against the State of
Michigan, or the University or any member or officer of the University; nor shall any such
obligation ever be or become a charge against the State of Michigan, nor shall the same become
a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the
University, it being expressly understood and agreed that the Bonds and the obligations created
hereunder are secured by and payable only from Student Fees and moneys in the Bond Fund
and Reserve Fund, and that no other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the
State of Michigan, the University, or any member or officer of the University, or its successors;
all other liability, except as herein provided, being expressly waived.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984                               111
ARTICLE VII
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 701 Additional Parity Obligations. The University reserves the right to issue
additional Parity Obligations for any authorized purpose having equal standing and priority of
lien against Student Fees with the Bonds and other then existing Parity Obligations of the
University, provided:
(a) the University by its Controller certifies that the total amount of Student Fees
collected by the University in each of its last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to
the issuance of such proposed additional Parity Obligations are equal to at least 200% of the
maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the Bonds
are scheduled to be outstanding; and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable as to principal only on
April 1 of the year or years of maturity and payable as to interest either annually or
semiannually on April 1 or October 1 of such years.
Section 702 Defeasance. If all the Bonds shall have become due and payable in accordance with their terms or are to be paid at their maturity or maturities and the whole amount of
the principal and the interest so due and payable upon all of the Bonds then outstanding shall be
paid or sufficient cash, or cash and non-callable direct obligations of or non-callable obligations
fully guaranteed by, the United States Treasury, including specifically maturing interests in a
fund composed entirely of obligations of the United States Treasury which will produce
sufficient revenues to pay all maturing interests therein when due ("Government Obligations"),
the principal of and the interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable, will
provide sufficient moneys for such payment, shall be held by the Transfer Agent in the Bond
Fund or by any other escrow agent in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds, then and
in that case the Resolution shall be defeased and terminated and all obligations of the University
hereunder shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void and, on demand of the University,
any surplus in the Bond Fund other than money held for the payment of the Bonds shall be
transferred to the University; provided, that the applicable provisions of this Resolution
pertaining to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds and registration and
transfer of Bonds shall be continued in force until such have been fully paid.
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which cash or cash and Government Obligations (including
principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent in
trust for the holders of said Bonds or portions of Bonds sufficient to pay all principal and
interest through maturity shall no longer be outstanding hereunder, and the holders thereof shall
have no further rights hereunder or under the Bonds except the right to receive payment from
the cash or cash and Government Obligations held in trust as specified above.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent
as described above shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when due, of the Bonds
payable therewith.
ARTICLE VIII
FURTHER COVENANTS AND LIMITATION
ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The University covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as follows:
Section 801  Audits and Records. The University shall keep and maintain accurate books
and records relating to the collection of Student Fees and the allocation thereof, the enrollment
of students in the University and the payments into the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, which
said books and records shall be open for inspection by any holder of the Bonds at any
reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited annually by a certified public
accountant and a copy of said audit sent to the Representative not later than four months after
the end of each Fiscal Year.
Section 802 Performance of Covenants; Authority. The University shall faithfully perform
all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the Resolution and in
any Bond executed and delivered hereunder in all other proceedings of the University pertaining
thereto. The University is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State of
Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to pledge Student Fees in the manner and




112      OCTOBER MEETING, 1984
to the extent herein set forth, and to acquire, construct and install the Project as contemplated
by this Resolution; all action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the
issuance, execution and delivery of any Bonds has been or will be duly and effectively taken
prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds in the hands of the holders and owners
thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited obligations of the University according to
their terms.
Section 803 Limited Recourse. There shall be no recourse under any obligation, covenant,
or agreement contained in the Resolution or any Bond against the State of Michigan, or the
University or any member or officer of the University, it being expressly understood and agreed
that the Bonds and obligations hereunder are secured by and payable only from Student Fees or
moneys at such time in the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund.
ARTICLE IX
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 901 Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders. The University may without the consent of the Bondholders adopt resolutions supplemental to the
Resolution as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more
of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the Student Fees or to grant or pledge to the Bondholders
any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the University for the purpose of further
securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of Parity Obligations
by the University;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Resolution;
(f) To amend or subtract from or make substitutions for the Project.
Section 902  Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of
supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for which consent of Bondholders is not
required, the holders of not less than 65% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds
outstanding (the outstanding principal amount of Capital Appreciation Bonds to be determined
as set forth below, solely for the purposes of this Section 902) shall have the right to consent to
the adoption by the University of such other supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be
deemed necessary and desirable by the University; provided, however, that nothing contained in
this Section shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the maturity of the
principal of or the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal
amount of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority of any Bond or
Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate principal amount of
the Bonds required for consent to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
Solely for determining the principal amount of Capital Appreciated Bonds outstanding at
any time for the purposes of this Section 902, the outstanding principal amount of a Capital
Appreciation Bond shall be deemed to be the Appreciated Principal Amount of such Capital
Appreciation Bond as of the immediately preceding April 1 or October 1.
If the University shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the
Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution to
be mailed to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the
University kept by the Transfer Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the
proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on file at
the principal office of the University for inspection by all Bondholders. If within six months
following the publication of such notice, the holders of not less than 65% in aggregate principal
amount of the Bonds outstanding (determined as provided in this Section 902) at the time of the
mailing such notice have consented in writing to the adoption thereof, upon the adoption of
such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in
accordance therewith.
ARTICLE X
SALE OF BONDS AND PREPARATION OF OFFICIAL STATEMENT
Section 1001 Arrangements for Sale of Bonds. The Bonds shall be sold by the University
to the Purchaser, pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement, at a purchase price of 98.1% of the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


113


original principal amount thereof ($44,987,274), plus accrued interest on the Bonds (other than
the Capital Appreciation Bonds) from October 1, 1984, to the date of delivery and payment
therefor and otherwise in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Resolution.
Section 1002 Approved of Official Statement, Preliminary Official Statement and Bond
Purchase Agreement. The Official Statement, dated October 19, 1984 (the "Official Statement"), the Preliminary Official Statement, dated October 5, 1984 (the "Preliminary Official
Statement") and the Bond Purchase Agreement relating to the Bonds, copies of which are on
file with the Secretary of the University and on which have been endorsed by the Secretary of
the University the date of adoption of this resolution, are hereby accepted, approved and
ratified, as the case may be, substantially in the form presented in this meeting. The distribution
and use of the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws by the
Purchaser, in connection with the marketing of the Bonds, is hereby ratified and confirmed, and
the distribution and use of the Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws by the
Purchaser, in connection with the marketing of the Bonds, is hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1003 Resolution Consitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution shall
constitute a contract between the University and Bondholders to the equal and ratable benefit
and protection of each Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no change, variation, or
alteration of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance with its terms.
Section 1004 Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by the Resolution shall be
enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the Bondholder(s) under the law.
Section 1005 Other Documentation. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University, Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary of the University, C. W.
Matthews, Controller of the University, and Norman G. Herbert, Investment Officer, or any
one or more of them are authorized to perform all acts and deeds and execute and deliver on
behalf of the Regents the Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement, and each of
such persons and any other appropriate officers or representatives of the Regents or the
University is authorized to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf
of the Regents required by the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient and proper
in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds and the acquisition, construction
and installation of the Project as contemplated hereby.
ARTICLE XI
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1101  Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the
Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective
for any reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the
remaining sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1102 Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and
shall not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or
effect.
Section 1103 Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the
University in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1104 Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption.
EXHIBIT A
PRINCIPAL APPRECIATION SCHEDULE
1 Capital Appreciation Bonds Maturing April 1, 1995
Year       April 1        October 1      Year       April 1        October 1
1985           $ 1,884.45      $ 1,978.671991           $ 3,384.20      $ 3,553.41
1986             2,077.60        2,181.481992             3,731.08        3,917.63
1987             2,290.56        2,405.091993             4,113.51        4,319.19
1988             2,525.34        2,651.611994             4,535.15        4,761.90
1989             2,784.19        2,923.401995             5,000.00
1990             3,069.57        3,223.04




114


OCTOBER MEETING, 1984


II Capital Appreciation Bonds Maturing April 1, 1996
Year       April 1        October 1      Year       April 1        October I
1985           $ 1,709.25      $ 1,794.711991           $ 3,069.57     $ 3,223.04
1986             1,884.45        1,978.671992             3,384.20        3,553.41
1987             2,077.60        2,181.481993             3,731.08        3,917.63
1988             2,290.56        2,405.091994             4,113.51        4,319.19
1989             2,525.34        2,651.611995             4,535.15        4,761.90
1990             2,784.19        2,923.401996             5,000.00
CERTIFICATION
I, the undersigned, RICHARD L. KENNEDY, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
1. That I am the duly chosen, qualified and acting Secretary of the Regents of the
University of Michigan and keeper of the official records thereof;
2. That the foregoing is a full, true and compared copy, and the whole thereof, of a
resolution of the Regents of the University of Michigan, duly presented and adopted at a regular
meeting duly called and held by said Regents, at, Michgan on the      day of
October, 1984, at which a quorum was present and voting and that public notice of said
meeting was given and said meeting was conducted in full compliance with the Open Meetings
Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976:
3. That the following members were present:
and that the following members were absent:__
4. That said resolution was moved by           and seconded by             and
that the following Regents voted in favor of the resolution: -, and that
the following Regents voted against said resolution: none.
5. That said resolution was adopted, is duly recorded in the minute books of the Regents of
The University of Michigan and is still in force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and the official seal of the University of
Michigan this - day of October, 1984.
(SEAL)


Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary
Regents of the University of Michigan




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 15, 1984
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Cosovich, Johnson, Interim Vice President Sussman,
and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Varner
was absent.
SACUA Report
President Shapiro called the meeting to order. He welcomed members of
the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs and introduced Dr.
Robert Green, vice chair of the committee.
Dr. Green introduced the following members of SACUA: Daniel E.
Moerman, Associate Professor of Anthropology, UM-Dearbom; Jean L.
Loup, Senior Associate Librarian; Richard W. Bailey, Professor of English;
William C. Stebbins, Professor of Psychology; Dale Briggs, Professor of
Chemical Engineering; Patricia B. Yocum, Associate Librarian; and Alphonse
Burdi, Professor of Anatomy and Director of the Inteflex Program.
Dr. Green extended SACUA's gratitude and thanks to Regents Dunn and
Nederlander. He said that this would be the last meeting at which the faculty
would formally have the opportunity to be associated with them. The faculty
has recognized their contributions to the student, faculty and administrative
life of the University over the years and they wish them well.
There followed a general discussion focusing on the following questions:
(1) How can the University best foster and maintain scholarly integrity
for all members of its community?
(2) Do we invest sufficient resources in the training and evaluation of
faculty designated to manage the University? Should some be regarded as
career managers? What is the best balance between centralized decisionmaking and dispersed responsibility in University governance?
(3) How can we continue a distinguished tradition of broad undergraduate education in the liberal arts when students and employers both seek
pre-professional and professional training?
(4) In what ways should U-M shape its objectives for graduate education
in response to external public demand?
(5) Will the University respond to declining numbers of traditional
students by relaxing admission standards, by seeking to enroll older persons,
by shrinking enrollments, or by some other response?
(6) Increased levels of state support are more probable if the legislators
believe that significant tangible improvements have occurred through efforts
of The University of Michigan in the state. Would significant faculty
involvement throughout the state more than compensate for potential reductions in faculty efforts on campus?
115




116


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


President Shapiro asked Vice President Frye to proceed to the next topic;
the 1985-86 operating budget request.
1985-86 Operating Budget Request, Ann Arbor Campus
Vice President Frye noted that the proposal presented at this time was
premised on three main points: (1) an effort to establish the overall funding
gap which has been generated by several years of erosion in state support,
and which has not been offset by the enormous tuition increases that became
necessary; (2) a summary of the principal needs, both a backlog of the debts
that have accumulated as well as new developments with which the institution has been confronted; and (3) a reminder of the various steps that the
University has undertaken during these past ten years, particularly the last
five, in order to bring expenditures into line with revenues by addressing the
most critical priorities rather than continuing to allocate the depleting resources across the board.
Vice President Frye indicated that the gap between state revenues and
the needs of the University are in the order of $40 to $50 million per year in
operating expenditures. In fact, had it not been for the modest recovery of
the last two years, the gap would have exceeded that figure. Tuition revenue
leads to the same conclusion. For example, if tuition levels were adjusted
down to comparable levels of the Big Ten institutions, it would cost
approximately $50 million in state support to make up the difference. The
comparisons noted in the document indicate that the University of California, Berkeley receives substantially more state support than The University
of Michigan. In a more general comparison of public and private peers,
which includes some Big Ten and Ivy League institutions, the level of
expenditure per faculty member and student is considerably less at this
institution. These kinds of comparisons are not very favorable and tend to
bring the University to the lower threshold of an adequate level of support.
It appears that there are three conclusions that can be drawn from these
comparisons which ought to be underscored: to the extent that those numbers represent the cost of maintaining the best institutions in the country, it
is obvious that there is a cost of excellence as opposed to the cost of
maintaining an average institution; it is also obvious that The University of
Michigan is a very efficient institution to have maintained its reputation
considering the extent of the revenue gap. It is difficult to know how long
the University will be able to continue to recruit and maintain the kind of
faculty and students necessary to be among the top five or ten institutions
when the difference between available resources and institutional needs is so
great. This overall gap must be recognized and, to the extent possible,
restored in order to allow the necessary flexibility in the use of University
funds.
Vice President Frye then spoke of certain areas of expenditure that must
be addressed. For example, there are new needs that have emerged as a
result of developments in the academic world during the last several years,
most notably in the area of computer technology. Other areas of need
include the restoration of the base of salary support for faculty and staff,
expenditures for maintenance, equipment and library acquisitions, and funds
for emergent new problems such as growth in enrollment and the need to




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


117


bring faculty numbers into line with those enrollments in certain schools and
colleges. The cost of utilities and staff benefits continue to grow faster than
the estimated rate of inflation.
The budget request also includes proposals to enhance recruitment of
disadvantaged minority students and funds to help establish a center that
would serve as a liaison between the University and the K-12 system.
Vice President Frye said that in order to hold the current purchasing
power of the University's budget, it would require approximately $27.3
million, or an 8% overall increase in the budget, and to make up for the
revenue shortfall just described would require about $44 million. Since the
sum of those two figures would be totally unrealistic, the University is
proposing that the institutional needs, the $44-$45 million, be met in a
three-year period which would add an additional $18.2 million to the
maintenance funding of $27.3 million, or a 13.3% increase in the overall
budget for the Ann Arbor campus for 1985-86.
In submitting this proposal, the University is asking the state to make an
adjustment in the total general fund and not just the state share of the general
fund. The students have been burdened with an enormous rate of tuition for
some time; therefore, this would seem to be a very helpful adjustment and
reciprication.
In conclusion, Vice President Frye indicated that the administration
realizes that the request, in some sense, is enormous and might be viewed as
such by the state, but it is the responsibility of the administration to show
that these needs are well justified because of the long period over which they
developed and because of the problems that have been created and unaddressed
as a result. He then asked for endorsement of the request so that the proposal
can be submitted to the state for consideration.
President Shapiro remarked that this request is brought to the Board at
this time of year to use as a basis, along with the other higher education
requests, for the Governor's recommendations in the budget message in
January. He said that it was not a question of establishing the University's
budget for next year, but of stating the needs of the University in order to
sustain the quality of the institution.
Regent Power commented that, in her view, the operating budget request
as presented represents a turning point in the University's approach to its
funding problems. In looking at the budget requests of previous years, the
administration has spoken to the factors of historic erosion and the crises
which developed in faculty salaries. In an attempt to combat the erosion,
the five-year plan, entrepreneurial activities, and the capital campaign
were developed. At the same time, tuition became too costly for many
students.
Although the last five years have shown more aggressive action under
the President's leadership, perhaps the responsibility of the administration
should be to advocate the level of funding necessary to maintain the national
and international quality and distinction of the University. The administration and the Regents should commit themselves to studying the issue and
developing new ways of directing the destiny of the University.
President Shapiro indicated that the administration has been trying to




118


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


proceed in that fashion. However, the state should be given the opportunity
to sustain a public university of distinction.
Regent Roach remarked that, in his judgment, the budget request document was a very persuasive argument for the University. Perhaps the
document should be modified, however, to reflect the slight improvement of
the last two years. There was no mention of the fact that during the years
1973-83 the level of state support for The University of Michigan was the
lowest among the state universities. Regent Roach felt that this was not
caused by malevolence toward the University on the part of the governor
and legislature, but simply because the legislature thought it would be a
short-term problem which would be remedied the next year. However, the
problem was not resolved the next year or in subsequent years. This fact
should be brought to the attention of the legislature so that the University
can continue to be a world class institution, or, as the governor has said,
"the crown jewel of the higher education system in the state."
President Shapiro commented that perhaps the document did not express
the fact of the improvement in the appropriation of the last two years as
effectively as possible, but he did feel that the document reflected that fact.
With respect to Regent Roach's comment regarding the relative disadvantage of the University in terms of the appropriation, President Shapiro felt
that there was a more effective way of making that argument. Data was
being gathered at the present time that would reflect the fact that research
universities are not funded as well as other schools and colleges in Michigan. The President thought that this would be a powerful argument for some
special attention to the research universities.
1985-86 Operating Budget Request, Dearborn Campus
Chancellor Jenkins then referred to the budget request for the Dearborn
campus. He stated that UM-Dearborn also recognizes the fact that the
situation has improved in the last two years, but has not regained the
shortfall that has existed over the years. The request, $2.27 million, reflects
substantial funding for faculty salaries which are currently at the lowest level
of the IIA institutions in Michigan, adequate funding for program improvements, computers, library acquisitions, instructional programs and equipment, and the inflationary increases for current accounts and utilities.
Acknowledging the high rate of tuition, Chancellor Jenkins indicated that
tuition would not have to be increased, if this request was granted.
1985-86 Operating Budget Request, Flint Campus
Chancellor Jones indicated that the budget request for the Flint campus
was similar to that of the Dearborn campus. He said that the 1984-85
appropriation made some positive contribution which enabled the Flint
campus to maintain itself as an important part of the Flint community.
However, there were unmet needs, such as faculty/staff salaries, library
acquisitions, student aid, instructional and computing equipment and plant
repair and maintenance. One-half of the total request, $2.107 million, would
be used to maintain the current purchasing power, one-quarter for faculty/




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


119


staff compensation, and one-quarter for new program development and
enhancement.
Regent Dunn inquired about the physical therapy program which had
been transferred to the Flint campus. President Shapiro indicated that the
program was on budget; in fact, it is ahead of the projections which had
been made.
Regent Power moved to approve the 1985-86 request for incremental
operating appropriations. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Research Expenditure Report, 1984
Vice President Sussman commented that with respect to the research
expenditure report for fiscal 1984, he planned to present slides which would
show where research expenditures are heading in the nation, the performance of the University in this area, and comparisons with the University's
peers. He also invited two faculty members, Rees Midgley, Professor of
Pathology and Director of the Reproductive Endocrinology Program, and
Jay Robinson, Professor of English Language and Literature and Chairman
of the English Composition Board, to present some insights into their own
research.
Following the presentations by Professors Midgely and Robinson and the
discussion that followed, their was a brief recess.
Ballot Proposal C
Upon reconvening, Regent Baker indicated that he understood the financial constraints which had been outlined by Vice President Frye and he
understood how vital to the University it was to participate in the governmental lobbying process on the national and state levels for such items as
campus buildings. Beyond that, however, he was uncomfortable with the
actions by the University on such issues as Proposal C. He then read the
following statement:
Prior to the November 6, 1984 general election The University of Michigan invested an
enormous portion of its public good will among the people of Michigan to defeat the citizens'
tax limitation initiative called Ballot Proposal C or Voters Choice.
Certainly the University has a legitimate obligation to inform the people of our state on the
merits or demerits of any ballot proposal, including C, as they affect the University. I neither
supported nor opposed Proposal C, but I did and do oppose the University's direct involvement
in the state's political wars.
The University went far beyond educating the public about Proposal C and joined with the
political forces of the state (labor, government, business and education) in a massive campaign
to defeat the proposal.
The efforts were targeted to University alumni, parents, students, and faculty, as well as
legislators, community leaders, the media, and the general public. A task force of higher
education officials representing Michigan's thirteen public colleges met regularly with 'Promote
Michigan' officials (a political group organized to defeat Proposal C) in order to coordinate
activities. In addition, President Shapiro solicited money from the faculty and others to be used
in the campaign against Proposal C.
The Regents and the President have at least three corollary obligations in such a public issue
information process. They are:




120


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


1. First, when the University's opinion was presented, it should have been an
objective and scholarly analysis of the effects of the passage of Proposal C on the
University, not as it was, a political polemic.
2. Next, the University must avoid entanglements in the destructive web of
partisan statewide politics. This University ought not be in the pocket of any
political party, legislature, administration, business, labor union, or other power
group. Michigan is a great University today because it historically has avoided
excessive involvement in the political process.
3. Finally, this University ought not even appear to coerce its employees into
support of political related efforts such as the fund-raising activity implemented
through the President's office.
The principal issue here is not the merits or demerits of Proposal C, but the independence of
The University of Michigan and its freedom to search for truth without the burden of political
identification or dominance.
The constitutional convention is based upon a non-political university devoted to the
common good. In the eyes of the future historian, Proposal C will be like a mustard seed, but if
through conscious actions the Regents fail to keep the University free of the political swamps,
then a diminished, tarnished and unrespected University of Michigan will be the heritage we
bequeath to the people of the state.
Regent Nederlander commented that he agreed that the University should
not get involved in political campaigns or partisan issues, and the University
should not become politicized. But on occasion an issue arises that must be
considered carefully. Proposal C, in his judgment, would create such tremendous problems for the University that it was appropriate to become
involved. University funds were not used to oppose the issue and it
would not have been in the best interest of the University to do so.
This was an exceptional case and, as such, the University should voice
its concerns.
Regent Roach agreed that every consideration must be given to the issue
of what is in the best interest of the University and the non-politicization of
the University. In this particular case, however, the financial and governmental restrictions that would have been imposed upon the University by
Proposal C, were of such proportion that the majority of the Board felt it
was their responsibility to publicly oppose the proposal.
Regent Baker indicated that he did not wish to argue the point. He
simply wished to bring the issue to everyone's attention.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the July 12 and 13, 1984 meeting, and the September 20
and 21, 1984 meeting were approved with certain specified changes.
A brief recess followed.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Rachael Rosner, student, on the quality of teaching at the
University; Robert Ball, alumnus, on an energy conservation idea; Sue Law,
David Holtzman, and Mark Gittleman, students, on the nonacademic student
code; Scott Page, President of MSA, on University issues; Charles Tackett,
Ann Arbor citizen, on why education is out of reach of the veteran; and Tim




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


121


Richardson, Mara Moradoff, Ingrid Kock, Ted Lerner, and Peter Reinhardt,
students, on nuclear arms.
The meeting was recessed until Friday morning.
Friday, November 16, 1984
The Regents reconvened at 9:15 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellor Jones and Vice Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Frye, Cosovich, Johnson, Interim Vice President Sussman, and
Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Chancellor Jenkins
was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated that Regent
Roach had an item to bring before the Board.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Roach then moved that the Regents meet in executive session
immediately upon adjournment of the regular session for the purpose of
considering pending litigation in accordance with Section 8(h) of the Open
Meetings Act. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted with
Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner and
Waters voting affirmatively.
Burn Center Project, UM Hospitals
Vice President Brinkerhoff then commented that the Regents had previously approved proceeding with the UM Hospitals Bur Center project.
He described the project, and reviewed the request for an increase in the
budget. He indicated that the budget increase was relatively modest in terms
of the lapsed time since regental action, and he pointed out that both the
staff and executive committee of the Comprehensive Health Planning Council of Southeastern Michigan had approved the project. The project document is now in the office of the Department of Public Health for their
approval and granting of a Certificate of Need. Vice President Brinkerhoff
then reviewed the rendering of the site, layout and design of the project.
Regent Baker indicated that this was a better solution than that previously presented because it incorporates an area of isolation into the
University's hospital structure and is readily accessible to the emergency
entrance.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the new Burn Center project, construction budget, site allocation and to authorize the solicitation of construction
bids. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Replacement Hospital Project Completion
Vice President Brinkerhoff then commented that the University is at the
final stages in terms of planning for the remainder of the replacement
hospital project. He said that authorization had been previously granted for
program planning, and construction of the hospital and the ambulatory care
facility. A planning project involving Mott Children's Hospital, Women's
Hospital and the Holden Center also had been authorized. The request




122


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


presented at this time includes authorization to proceed with the completion
of the planning process which would allow for the vacation of the 300 N.
Ingalls Building and the consolidation of the administrative and support staff
activities in the units within the medical and clinical areas, including Children's Psychiatric Hospital, the Outpatient building, the south end of the
Ambulatory Care Facility and other miscellaneous activities. There are a
large number of people, functions and services to be finally identified in
relationship to where they go, in what kind of space they are to be located,
the rationale for the location and the size of the spaces. It is recommended
that Robert Douglass Associates be retained to develop program planning
which would lead toward the appointment of an architectural firm to carry
out these activities at some future date.
Regent Nederlander then moved to authorize the appointment of Robert
Douglass Associates of Houston, Texas as planning consultants for the
master program and facility planning of the "rest of the RHP." Regent
Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Office of Development and University Relations
Vice President Cosovich reviewed the general organization and campaign progress of the Office of Development and University Relations. He
introduced his senior staff colleagues, Roy Muir, Director of the Campaign
for Michigan, Robert Potter, Director of University Communication, Robert
Debrodt, Director of Trusts and Bequests and Interim Director of Annual
Programs, and Neal Bedford, Director of Administrative Services.
Vice President Cosovich spoke to the new structure of the Office of
Development and University Relations. He listed the mission of the office
as: (1) to increase gift income, (2) to increase the level of participation both
the percentage of donors and the number of volunteers active on behalf of
the University, and (3) to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the
University's communication program.
With respect to fundraising activities, individuals, public corporations,
and professional foundations will be addressed as the primary sources of gift
support, and potential donors and volunteers will be identified. Vice President Cosovich indicated that his office is in the process of defining new
program guidelines for annual or all-alumni solicitation. All schools and
colleges will participate actively, and, as an incentive, future programs will
emphasize giving designated to the donor's academic or program related
area of interest. Foundation and corporation sources will be defined and a
new level of approach will be developed.
A number of changes and some additions in organization to support field
fundraising operations have been established. Vice President Cosovich felt
that the new framework would enable the University to make significant
gains in the years ahead.
In the area of the communication organization, or university relations,
there are three principal missions: (1) providing support for the acquisition
of human and financial resources, (2) interpreting the University and its
activities to the many constituencies who have a stake in the institution, and
(3) helping to identify important public issues as they develop, and to make




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


123


certain that the University's interests are correctly defined and communicated as the issues are publicly debated and resolved.
An effective news program is important because it publicizes people,
programs and events at the University. Coverage in important national
publications and exposure on radio and television improves the competitive
position of the faculty in their efforts to obtain grants and contracts from
foundations and government agencies, and in attracting high-quality faculty
and students. Another area of importance is the marketing perspective;
utilizing special purpose publications to the very best advantage for the
dissemination of information to alumni, parents, students, and friends. The
University's radio activities, WUOM     in Ann Arbor and WVGR in Grand
Rapids, are an excellent example of public service to the people of Michigan.
In conclusion, Vice President Cosovich commented that the Campaign
for Michigan provides the discipline to define a group of high priority
objectives and to focus the institutional resources on achieving the goal.
The discussion that followed involved the kind of market survey that
would define the attitudes of the various constituencies in the state toward
The University of Michigan including its weaknesses and strengths, the
organization of the Office of Development and University Relations, the
coordination of the schools and colleges to the central efforts of the campaign, the importance of volunteers to the overall annual fundraising effort,
and the investment of time of executive officers, deans and faculty, and
financial resources, to insure an effective mechanism.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and the replacement hospital project.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools
of Dentistry and Medicine and the College of Pharmacy funds............... $118,872
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the
M edical  School  fund..................................................  25,137
American Hoechst Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey; for programmatic support
and research  in  the Medical School fund.................................  6,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund....  7,500
Albert Bradley Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund..  5,000
Dr. and Mrs. Robert W. Browne, Grand Rapids Care Corporation, common stock, for
the Robert W. Browne endowed chair in the School of Dentistry fund......... 165,000
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit; for scholarships in the School of Business Administration, and for fellowships and scholarships in the College of Engineering fund. 23,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; for research in
the  M edical School fund...............................................  12,500
Edward Cherney, Bloomfield Hills; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics
fund...............................................................  8,000
Chevron, U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California; for fellowships in the College of Engineering  fund.......................................................  10,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School  fund.........................................................  30,464




124


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, New York, New York; for epidemiological
research in the School of Public Health fund.............................. 29,000
Irwin & Sadye Cohn Fund, Detroit; for support of the Law Library fund.......... 10,000
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for the Biological Station Lecture Hall, College
of Literature, Science and the Arts funds.................................  5,500
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Rockville, Maryland; for research in the Medical School
and in the College of Pharmacy funds.................................... 11,165
Diacraft, Inc., Plymouth; for support of the College of Engineering fund..........  5,846
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Campaign fund.................................. 20,000
Charles C. Dybvig, Pontiac Hayes-Dana, Ltd., common stock; for the Dorothy S.
Dybvig Fund, a life income gift to the College of Engineering fund........... 45,810
Charles E. Erickson Estate; for the Charles E. Erickson endowment in the University
Library  fund.........................................................  11,455
Helen Feldkamp Estate; for general, undergraduate student aid fund.............. 20,000
Gannett Foundation, Inc., Rochester, New York Gannett Company, Inc., common
stock; for the Journalists in Residence Program of the College of Literature,
Science  and  the  Arts  fund..............................................  24,743
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut; for support of the College of
Engineering and of the Institute for Social Research funds................... 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for the General Motors Fund in the College of
Engineering, and for the endowed General Motors Opportunity Scholarships funds. 64,243
Greater Niles Economic Development Full Employment Corporation, Niles; for discretionary support of the research laboratory in the College of Architecture and
U rban  Planning  fund..................................................  7,500
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics
fu nd...............................................................  25,0 00
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the
School of Public  Health  fund...........................................  55,937
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California; for the Hewlett Packard fellowship and student loan fund in the College of Engineering and for Employee
M atching  G ifts  fund..................................................  26,300
Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey; for support of research in the College
of  Pharm acy  fund....................................................  10,650
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit; for support of the Medical School, Disabled Student
Services, Shady Trails Camp, and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell general scholarships  funds..........................................................  23,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; for fellowships
and other support of the College of Engineering fund....................... 54,000
Mary M. Irvin Estate; for the Mary M. Irvin Fund for research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  144,276
John S. Tennant Estate; for unrestricted support of the Law School fund..........  5,000
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Racine, Wisconsin; for biophysics research in the
Institute of Science and Technology  fund.................................  20,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the Max Kade Foundation
Visiting Germanic Professorship in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts
fund...............................................................  9,000
Kenyon & Eckhardt, Inc., New York, New York; for unrestricted support of the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund.........................  5,000
Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, Florida; for research in the College of Pharmacy
fund...............................................................  8,000
Eugenie B. Lamb Estate; for pharmacological research in the Medical School fund..  5,000
Lamb Technicon Corporation, Warren; for support of the School of Business Administration  Campaign  fund...............................................  25,000
Little Family Foundation, Providence, Rhode Island; for the Little Family Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration fund................  5,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms; for Armenian Studies,
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus.............................  6,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Fund  in  the  M edical School fund........................................  12,337




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


125


Miles Pharmaceuticals, West Haven, Connecticut; for pharmacological research in
the  M edical School fund...............................................  15,000
Isabel Hicks Nauman Estate; for the Charles Virgil Hicks Fund for endowed general
support of the Law  School fund.........................................  292,899
Owens-Coming Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio; for physical stress research in
the  College  of Engineering  fund.........................................  15,000
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign fund................................  10,000
Premex Company Limited, Hong Kong; for support of plastic surgery activities in
the Medical School fund...............................................  10,000
Bonnie B. Reece, Ann Arbor; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  fund...................................................  5,000
Mary R. Romig-DeYoung, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Surveyor Fund, Inc., and
Penn Central Corporation common stocks; divided between the Mary R. RomigDeYoung endowment in the School of Music and for a fund for future designation  funds.........................................................  5,225
Schlumberger Foundation, Sugar Land, Texas; for the Schlumberger Foundation
scholarship  in the College of Engineering fund.............................  15,000
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas; for faculty career initiation
support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts,
and for fellowships in the College of Engineering funds..................... 36,301
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for fellowships in the College
of Literature, Science  and  the  Arts fund..................................  12,500
Standard Oil Company, Cleveland, Ohio; for support of the School of Business
Administration Associates Program, and of the College of Engineering funds.... 17,500
Stroh Brewery Company, Detroit; for construction of the Library in the School of
Business Administration  Campaign  fund..................................  10,000
Strokes Against Cancer, Inc., Fremont; for research in the Medical School fund....  7,212
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts; for research in the Medical
School  fund.........................................................  6,130
Tenneco Minerals Company, Lakewood, Colorado; for departmental support in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........................  5,000
United Methodist Retirement Homes, Chelsea; for support of the Institute of Gerontology   fund............................................................  6,000
Variety Club Charity for Children, Inc., Lathrup Village; for construction of the Bum
C enter  fund.........................................................  10,000
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Birmingham; for scholarships in  the Department of Athletics fund.................................  10,545
Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California; for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial
Endowment in the Medical School fund..................................  20,000
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois; Merrill Lynch Company, Inc., common stock for
unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign fund...  6,281
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for the Warner-Lambert/
Parke-Davis endowed fellowship in the College of Pharmacy fund............. 25,000
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania; for research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  44,850
Norma I. Yahr Estate; for construction of the Replacement Hospital fund..........  7,725
Roger Zatkoff Company, Farmington Hills; for scholarships in the Department of
A thletics  fund.......................................................  60,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Domino's Pizza, Inc., Ann Arbor. A 1980 Lectric Leop test vehicle; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Mary T. LaMore, Ann Arbor. A Chet LaMore acrylic, entitled: "Industrial Landscape" for the Alumni Association
Jeffrey Schultz, New York, New York. 72 business and financial books; for The
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library




126


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


Vice-President Cosovich filed his monthly report on development and
University relations.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Herbert C. Barrows, Jr., Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in English Language
and Literature, Winter term, 1985
Joseph Jesse Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a Freshman Seminar, Winter
term, 1985
Horace M. Miner, Professor Emeritus and Senior Research Scientist, appointed to active status
as Senior Research Scientist in the Museum of Anthropology, July 1, 1984 through
June 30, 1985
James D. Prendergast, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the School of Art,
Winter term, 1985
Douglas E. Van Houweling, Ph.D., Vice Provost for Information Technology, December 1,
1984
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Frederick J. Beutler, from Professor of Information and Control Engineering, with tenure,
Department of Aerospace Engineering, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, September 1, 1984
Paul P. Danos, Professor of Accounting, appointed the Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, January 1, 1985
Dennis G. Severance, Professor of Computer and Information Systems, appointed the Arthur
Andersen Professor of Computer and Information Systems, January 1, 1985
Stanley A. Schwartz, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and
Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, from Associate Professor to Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, September 1, 1984
Thomas C. Shope, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, from Associate Research Scientist
to Associate Professor of Epidemiology, December 1, 1984
The following committee appointments were approved:
Committee on Military Officer Education Proqram
Mr. David W. Asher, student member, for a one-year term, through April 30, 1985
Mr. Edwin K. Johnson, student member, for a one-year term, through April 30, 1985
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Dr. Harold T. Shapiro, to succeed himself, for a five-year term, through October 31, 1989
Friends of the Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Mr. Robert Donia, for a three-year term, through June 30, 1987, vice Mr. Charles R. Sligh,
term expired
Mrs. Gertrude Huebner, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, through June 30, 1987
Mr. A. B. Smith, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term, through June 30, 1987
Mr. Neil Staebler, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, through June 30, 1987
Mrs. Nancy Q. Williams, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, through June 30, 1987
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Mr. Norman Betts, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, through May 31, 1986
Advisory Committee on Recreation, Intramurals and Club Sports
Mr. James Dworman, for a two-year term, through July 31, 1986, vice Mr. Douglas K. Ham,
Jr., term expired




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


127


Mr. Richard Blalock, Jr., for a two-year term, through July 31, 1986, vice Ms. Ann Marie
Hubbs, term expired
University Press Executive Committee
Professor Donald R. Brown, for a three-year term, through August 31, 1987, vice Professor
Eva Mueller, term expired
Professor Dimitri N. Coucouvanis, for a three-year term, through August 31, 1987, vice
Professor Howard A. Crum, term expired
Professor Thomas C. Holt, for a three-year term, through August 31, 1987, vice Professor John
Pedley, term expired
UM-Dearborn Colleqe of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
The following faculty members were appointed for a five-month term effective December,
1984:
Professor Gerald Gardner
Professor Sidney Warschausky
Professor Richard Potts
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence without salary for
Jeffrey E. Evans, Lecturer, Residential College, and Ann E. Savageau,
Lecturer, Residential College.
The Regents approved the establishment of a position, Vice Provost for
Information Technology.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
M. Kent Jennings, Ph.D., Political Science, July 1, 1984
Associate Professor
James N. Holm, Jr., Ph.D., Communications and English, UM-Flint
Jonathan M. Rubin, M.D., Ph.D., Radiology, November 12, 1984
Assistant Professor
David A. Bloom, M.D., Surgery, August 15, 1984
Todd A. Boroson, Ph.D., Astronomy
Rodney A. Carr, Ph.D., Mathematics
Mei-Chu Chang, Ph.D., Mathematics
Pisti B. Katehi, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Daniel L. McShan, Ph.D., Radiation Therapy, September 17, 1984
Delores M. Schumann, M.S., Nursing, UM-Flint
Joseph W. Trigg, Jr., M.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Instructor
James M. Burke, M.D., Neurology
Richard V. Harrison, Ph.D., Continuing Medical Education
Georgiana M. Sanders, M.D., Internal Medicine, October 1, 1984
Lecturer
Jeanine L. Johns, M.S., Nursing
Warren D. Lo, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Michael P. Rosenberg, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry, October 1, 1984
Visiting Professor
Louis Bergeron, Ph.D., History, November 1, 1984
David Encaoua, Ph.D., Economics




128                     NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984
Visiting Associate Professor
Meng-Sing Liou, Ph.D., Aerospace Engineering
Edward Ostro, D.D.S., Dentistry
Visiting Assistant Professor
William Arlinghaus, Ph.D., Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
Ichino Shimoyama, M.D., Neurology
Visiting Lecturer
Annette L. Duplessis, M.Sc., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Maribeth K. Traer, M.S., Nursing
Adjunct Professor
William M. Brown, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
William E. Cuttill, M.S., Physics/Astronomy, UM-Flint
Joseph C. Hudson, Ph.D., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Yoram Koren, D.Sc., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Adjunct Associate Professor
Ping I. Lee, Ph.D., Pharmaceutics, October 1, 1984
George T. Wolff, Ph.D., Atmospheric and Oceanic Science
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Morris I. Bank, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Flint
Michael J. Garcia, Ph.D., Chicano Studies, UM-Flint
George J. Miller, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Karen R. Wilkinson, Ph.D., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
Adjunct Instructor
Carol W. Anselm, Ph.D., Management, UM-Flint
Adjunct Lecturer
Myron G. Aaronson, M.F.A., Music, UM-Flint
Mary M. Austin, B.S., Nursing, UM-Flint
Elizabeth A. Barany, M.A., Education, UM-Flint
Christopher V. Birg, M.S., Music, UM-Flint
John F. Brent, M.A., Program on Studies in Religion
Michael Brooks, M.A., Program on Studies in Religion
James A. Burchfield, B.S., Natural Resources
Aviva Butt, M.A., Program on Studies in Religion
A. Bruce Cowan, Ph.D., Music, UM-Flint
Joseph T. Hoffman, M.A., English, UM-Flint
Katherine Huber, M.A., Sociology, UM-Flint
Roberta A. Hunt, M.S., Nursing
Tamar Katz-Moshaiov, B.A., Near Eastern Studies
Hope A. Kellman, M.A., Residential College
Andrew Kramer, M.A., Anthropology
Suzanne C. Moffit, B.S., Biology, UM-Flint
Nitin Paranjpe, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Dearborn
Bernadette M. Regnier-Busch, Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
Robert Reichblum, B.S., Communication
Scott J. Sample, B.A., Division of Education, UM-Dearborn
Lillian E. Stafford, M.S., Germanic Languages and Literatures
Clinical Assistant Professor
Daniel M. Colaluca, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1984
John M. Pelachyk, M.D., Dermatology, October 1, 1984
Clinical Instructor
John Arnold, D.D.S., Dentistry, September 15, 1984
Debra G. Dielman, B.S.P., Pharmacy, November 1, 1984
Lisa C. Freitag, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, September 21, 1984
James W. Gusfa, D.D.S., Dentistry, October 1, 1984
Hallie J. Kintner, Ph.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1, 1984
Peter J. Mahar, M.D., Surgery, October 15, 1984




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


129


Mary H. Parise, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1984
Charles Seigerman, Ph.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1, 1984
Michael F. Szwanek, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Anthony T. Tsai, D.D.S., Dentistry, September 15, 1984
Janice Vigoreaux-Gorrochategui, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Rodelfo Argueta, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Surinder K. Batra, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Timothy E. Black, from Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology
Francis Dumler, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine
Michael Eichenhorn, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
John J. Hartman, Clinical Associate Professor of Psychology, also appointed Adjunct Associate
Professor of Psychiatry
Brenda P. Imber, from Adjunct Lecturer in English Language Institute, to Adjunct Lecturer of
Linguistics
Jemadari Kamara, Assistant Professor of African and Afro-American Studies and Assistant
Professor of Resource and Community Science, UM-Flint, also appointed Adjunct Lecturer
of the Center for Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science and
the Arts
David E. Kieras, Associate Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, also appointed
Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychology
Richard R. Neubig, Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine
Kishor Popat, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Terence M. Tompkins, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Associate Professor
William R. Wilson, Nursing, May 31, 1984
Assistant Professor
Phillip J. Bowman, Psychology, also Adjunct Assistant Professor of Afro-American Studies,
August 31, 1984
John O. King, History, June 30, 1984
Dennis S. Klos, Psychology, December 31, 1984
Edmund J. Lovett, III, Pathology, September 30, 1984
Ted H. Wojno, Ophthalmology, December 31, 1984
Instructor
Sarah Fox, Family Practice, October 31, 1984
Lecturer
Beth C. Marcoux, Physical Therapy, UM-Flint, August 31, 1984
Visiting Professor
Walter J. Gensler, Chemistry, September 30, 1984
Elsa Reiner, Toxicology, September 14, 1984
Clinical Professor
Thomas Killip, III, Internal Medicine, August 31, 1984
Clinical Assistant Professor
Robert C. Borer, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 31, 1984
Clinical Instructor
Shyo Itami, Pharmacy, June 30, 1984
Gregory P. Schepers, Pharmacy, June 30, 1984




130


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


Jovanka Urosev, Pharmacy, June 30, 1984
Roger G. Wheaton, Pharmacy, June 30, 1984
One off-campus assignment, one sabbatical leave, three leaves of absence without salary, four extended sick leaves, and one retirement furlough
were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of five faculty members. The
following retirement memoirs were adopted:
Associate Professor CARL IRWIN BRAHCE retired from The University of Michigan on
May 31, 1984 after serving the University for twenty years. During his tenure, he played a
major role in the development of the University's distinguished programs in the field of
educational gerontology. As a faculty member in the School of Education and a research
scientist in the Institute of Gerontology, Professor Brahce paid close attention to the application
of research in the field of aging to the solution of community-based problems confronting
elderly citizens.
Following a successful career as a journalist in Iowa, Illinois and Michigan, where he
served as a consultant to the Mott Foundation and the Flint Board of Education, Professor
Brahce became a university staff member in 1965. He directed the University Center for Adult
Education, Ann Arbor Program, prior to joining the faculty of the School of Education and the
staff of the Institute of Gerontology in 1972.
Professor Brahce was director of several major state and federally funded applied research
and demonstration projects in the fields of gerontology and retirement education. These projects
addressed such issues as the development of professional manpower to serve the needs of
seniors, community college programming for seniors, and field-based training for human
service providers to the elderly. From these several projects flowed a series of publications that
have gained wide currency among practitioners throughout the country.
For the above achievements and contributions, the Regents grant Carl Irwin Brahce the title
of Associate Professor Emeritus of Education.
ROBERT V. KESLING, Professor of Geological Sciences and Curator of Micropaleontology in the Museum of Paleontology, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1984 after
thirty-five years of service. Born in Peru, Indiana, Professor Kesling received his B.A. degree
from Depauw University in 1939. He then began graduate work in micropaleontology at the
University of Illinois. His education was interrupted by World War II after he received his M.S.
degree in 1941. From 1941 to 1946 he served as a meteorologist in the U.S. Army Air Corps,
with considerable time spent in the Yukon Territory and the Philippine Islands. He returned to
the University of Illinois following the war to continue his graduate work, receiving his Ph.D.
degree in 1949.
Professor Kesling joined the then Department of Geology and the Museum of Paleontology
in the summer of 1949 as assistant professor and associate curator, respectively. He was
promoted to associate professor and curator in 1955 and to full professor in 1959. He served as
Director of the Museum of Paleontology from 1966 to 1974.
His research interests in paleontology are very broad, for, besides his primary interest in
Paleozoic Ostracoda, he has published definitive works on Crinoidea, Cystoidea, Cyclocystoidea,
Asterozoa and Ophiuroidea. He is best known for his extensive studies of the Mid-Paleozoic
faunas of the Great Lakes area and their paleoecology. His publications in professional journals
number more than 170; during his career at Michigan he also published a major monograph on
ostracodes, a book on weather and climate and many book reviews. He served as editor of the
Journal of Paleontology, as well as editor for the Museum of Paleontology publication series
and the Michigan Basin Geological Society. For the first few years he was on the faculty he
taught the only course in meteorology offered on campus.
After World War II Professor Kesling remained in the U.S. Air Corps Reserve until his
retirement as Colonel in 1977.
The Regents note with pleasure Professor Kesling's distinguished career in research, teaching,
and service and salute this educator by naming him Professor Emeritus of Geological Sciences.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


131


MERLE LAWRENCE, Professor of Otolaryngology, in the Medical School, will retire
from active faculty status as of December 31, 1984 after an outstanding career in teaching,
research and administration.
After graduating from Princeton University in 1938, he continued in graduate school at the
same institution receiving his master's degree in 1940, and his Ph.D. degree in physiological
psychology in January, 1941. Following this, he was awarded a National Research Council
Fellowship to continue research in the Otological Laboratory at Johns Hopkins Hospital. This
was interrupted by the advent of World War II.
Professor Lawrence entered the U.S. Navy in August, 1941 as a naval aviator, rising from
cadet to lieutenant commander. Early in the war he served in the Pacific Theater, flying in
combat at Midway and Guadalcanal where he was wounded. He returned to the States in 1944
and was assigned to the School of Aviation Medicine at Pensacola where he served as a pilot
testing the acoustic properties of oxygen masks and working on the design of quick-release
parachutes. In 1945 he was assigned to the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Washington,
D.C., specializing in human factors in engineering design. During the course of this assignment
he became one of the first naval aviators to qualify in helicopters, serving for a while with a
Coast Guard squadron that developed many of the innovative devices used in rescue work
today. He received a Secretary-of-the-Navy Commendation for a book he wrote on Human
Factors.
In 1946, Professor Lawrence joined the faculty of Princeton University where he taught in
the Psychology Department and carried out research on the ear and hearing. During this period
he also commuted to New York City to work with Dr. Julius Lempert who had reawakened
otology with his fenestration operation for deafness due to otosclerosis. As a result of research
carried out during this period, Professor Lawrence and Professor E. G. Wever published a book
on Physiological Acoustics which outlined the acoustic principles upon which all middle ear
surgery today is based.
In 1950 Professor Lawrence was recalled to active duty to train helicopter pilots for the
Korean conflict and help set up a helicopter training program at Pensacola Naval Air Station.
Professor Lawrence was then (in 1952) invited by Dr. A. C. Furstenberg, Dean of The
University of Michigan Medical School and Chairman of the Department of Otolaryngology, to
join the department and establish an otological research laboratory in the just-completed Kresge
Medical Research Building. In addition to a faculty appointment in the Medical School, Dr.
Lawrence received a joint appointment as associate professor in the Psychology Department in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and as research associate in the Institute of
Industrial Health.
In 1957, Dr. Lawrence was appointed to full professor, and in 1960 the S.S. Kresge
Foundation gave $1,750,000 to the University to construct a building to house what has become
known as the Kresge Hearing Research Institute. Dr. Lawrence was appointed the first director
of this institute in 1961. In this position he recruited a research staff, successfully sought
funding from the National Institutes of Health and private foundations, and presided over the
development of research accomplishments recognized the world over. Dr. Lawrence himself is
recognized for his pioneering work on the electrical properties of the inner ear structures and for
delineating and analyzing the blood capillary supply and microcirculation to the organ of Corti
in the inner ear.
In order to train others in this area of research, he established a graduate program in
Physiological Acoustics with the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and has
produced younger scientists distinguished in their own right.
Professor Lawrence has over 200 scientific publications and six books. He has received
many awards and honors, among which are those from the American Otological Society, the
Association for Research in Otolaryngology, American Auditory Society, American Academy
of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology and the Distinguished Service Award from his Princeton
Class of 1938. He is an elected member of the Collegium Oto-Rhino-Laryngologicum Amicitia
sacrum.
He has been a consultant to the Armed Services, to the National Institutes of Health, to
industry and served on the Advisory Council of the National Institute of Neurological and
Communicative Disorders and Stroke.
The Regents now salute this professor, researcher, and administrator for his distinguished
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Otolaryngology and Psychology.




132


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


MERLE MASON, Professor of Biological Chemistry, in the Medical School, has retired
from active faculty status as of August 31, 1983, after a very productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Missouri, Professor Mason began his undergraduate studies at Oklahoma State
University in 1938. Following military service in the U.S. Army from 1943-45, he received his
B.S. degree in chemistry in 1947, and his Ph.D. degree in biochemistry in 1950, both from the
State University of Iowa.
After joining the Department of Biological Chemistry at The University of Michigan in
1950 as an instructor, Professor Mason was promoted to assistant professor in 1954, and to
associate professor in 1961. During the 1970-71 academic year, he spent a sabbatical leave in
the laboratory of Dr. Paulo Fasella at the University of Rome.
In 1979, Professor Mason was named a full professor in the University's Medical School.
He contributed strength and vitality to both instructional and research programs of the Department of Biological Chemistry, and served with distinction on five different university committees, including the Building Committee and the Curriculum Revision Committee for the Dental
School, the Health Science Divisional Committee of the Horace H. Rackham Graduate School,
and two separate planning committees for Medical School conferences.
Professor Mason chaired the Enzyme Section of the 1st International Meeting of the Study
Group for Tryptophan Research in Padua, Italy, in 1974, and served on the planning committee
for the 2nd International Meeting of that group in Madison, Wisconsin, the following year. He
and the associates he trained made major research contributions in the areas of amino acid
metabolism and pyridoxal enzymes, and also found interesting metabolic changes in Reye's
Syndrome.
The Regents of The University of Michigan now honor this distinguished scientist and
health educator for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry.
LAWRENCE L. RAUCH, Professor of Instrumentation in the Department of Aerospace
Engineering, in the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1979.
His distinguished career at The University of Michigan encompassed 30 years of teaching,
research and administration.
Professor Rauch received the A.B. degree in physics and mathematics from the University
of Southern California in 1941. He did his graduate work at Princeton University, receiving the
A.M. degree in mathematics in 1947 and the Ph.D. degree in applied mathematics in 1949.
While at Princeton, he supervised a major aircraft telemetering project for which he received
the Army and Navy award for an outstanding contribution to the work of the Office of
Scientific Research and Development during World War II.
In 1949, Professor Rauch joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as an assistant
professor of aeronautical engineering, achieving the rank of associate professor in 1950 and full
professor in 1953. During his early career at Michigan he originated a number of new graduate
courses in nonlinear systems, radio telemetry, instrumentation, and control systems. He was the
first chairman of the Nuclear Engineering Program and in 1952 initiated and became the first
chairman of Instrumentation Engineering at The University of Michigan. This highly successful
interdepartmental graduate program, which later became known as Information and Control
Engineering, represented one of Professor Rauch's most significant academic and administrative achievements. In 1968, the program was broadened to include computers and became the
Computer, Information and Control Engineering Program, which Professor Rauch also chaired
from 1971 to 1976.
During his career at The University of Michigan, Professor Rauch continued his active
research in radio telemetry and communications theory. As an internationally recognized
expert, he received many awards and honors, and was much sought after as a technical
consultant for both governmental and industrial organizations. In 1960 he was elected a Fellow
of the Institute of Radio Engineers for his contributions to the theory and practice of radio
telemetry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Instrumentation in Aerospace Engineering.
VII. MEMORIALS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


133


VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, August, 1984
correct to show: William James MacArthur
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Master of Arts, August, 1984, History
delete: Anita Tien, A.B., Yale University
Theatre
delete: Anna Kristine Flones-Czeski, B.S., Wayne State University
College of Engineering, Master of Science in Engineering, August, 1984, Mechanical Engineering
delete: Sutjipto Djingga, B.S. (M.E.) University of Washington
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Sascha Nicolai Knoblich
Jillian Susan Ovadia
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1984
add: Joon Mo Chung
Tetsuya Takahashi
Certificate in Medical Technology, August, 1984
add: Sharon Marie Baker
Elaine M. Ballor
Cheryn Rebeca Brown
Katherine Linda Chu
Michael Joseph Coon
Shari Ann Cordes
Cheryl Lynn Davison
Mary Colleen Furlong
Virginia Lynn Green
David M. Harro
Elizabeth Ellen Hart
Sandra Jean McNaughton
Cynthia Ruth Miller
Ann M. Postiff
William Robert Solinski
Linda M. Sweeney
Valerie Yvonne Wiggins
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: Carol Ann Chaltron
Valda Robbin Davenport
Mary Payette Garske
Robert Corrie Harrington
Debbie Ann Hillebrand
Douglas Theodore Olsen
Patrick Robert Olson with Distinction
Sharon Sue Pedersen
Jan L. Rubenstein with High Distinction
Patricia Jean Shipley with Distinction
Koren M. Winfield
correct to show: Robert Gordon Canvasser
Jane Kathryn Derse
Eric Mark Hansen
delete: Randi Beth Fradkin
Howard Charles Frazin
Bachelor of Science, August 17, 1984
correct to show: Joseph Micah Gottfried




134


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


add: Kay Ellen Kuenker
Allan Randall Peaks
Bachelor in General Studies, August 17, 1984
correct to show: Denise Marie Gonzalez
Bachelor in General Studies, August 17, 1984
add: Richard Victor Nygord
John Alexander Olver
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the August 1984 commencement for the Law School.
The Regents approved the tentative doctoral degree list for the December
Commencement.
The Regents approved the list of honorary degrees as recommended by
the honorary degree committee.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
1984 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
The Regents received the University of Michigan 1984 financial report
supplemental schedules for the year ended June 30, 1984.
University Audits Report
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented that Carl Smith, Director of
Internal Audits, would present the report on the University audits to the
Regents.
Mr. Smith indicated that the report was prepared in three sections: a
summary of the reports, the follow-up of prior internal audit reports, and the
implementation of the recommendations with which the units have concurred. The audit department is satisfied with the progress the units have
made. The third section is the summary of the audit report that was provided
by Price Waterhouse to the dean of the Medical School on the OB/GYN
medical service plan. The dean has concurred with the recommendations and
is implementing procedures to correct the problems noted.
Mr. Smith noted the new technology move the University has undertaken. It is the on-line stores requisition system. This system will allow staff
members who have approval, to order supplies and items from general stores
without using the paper format. It will enable one to key in on-line on the
computer terminal, courier terminal, WANG, data processing or word processing system to order all supplies directly. It is the first time the University has established a wide-spread on-line business transaction technique.
Since its preliminary phase, the system has been working very well. It will
cut down paper work, especially turn-around time from order to point of
delivery. This type of program will be increasing and the data systems
center and the accounting department have been working very hard to
analyze the controls that are needed to protect the institution in these modes.
Mr. Smith then responded to questions concerning the pharmacy control
review in the Health Service, and the recommendation to change the reporting of single source purchasing and about the selection process for professional services. In the first instance, the audit department was asked to
review the controls involved in providing patient information external to the
University for third party billing. With respect to single source purchasing,




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


135


the level of the amount to be reported has not changed since the mid-'70s
and with inflation, problems have developed in keeping up with the paper
work. Mr. Brinkerhoff indicated that inflation-based adjustments of a number of reporting points will be among the recommendations brought to the
Regents at a subsequent meeting. Mr. Smith indicated that it was his
understanding that anyone wishing to do business with the University would
contact the purchasing department to be added to bid lists.
President Shapiro commented that the University must provide a mechanism to make sure people have appropriate opportunity to deal with the
University even if there has been no past experience.
Real Property
Regent Waters moved to approve acceptance of a gift of the SE 1/4 SW
1/4, Section 5, T13N, R16E, Forester Township, Sanilac County, Michigan, subject to the acceptance by Robert Pell, with Ray MacArthur's
concurrence, of one of the two proposed options as described. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Dunn moved to authorize acceptance of Pipe Island with a life
estate reserved to Mr. D. E. Daggitt, recognizing that there could be
maintenance costs after his life, pending a sale or if put to a University use.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved that authorization be granted to execute an ingress
and egress easement on property in McKinley Township, Emmet County,
Michigan. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations
Regent Power moved to approve the state of Michigan special maintenance projects; renovations for Orthodontic Department-Kellogg Building;
Mott Hospital Electrical Modifications; Skillman Pediatric Ophthalmology
Clinic; Kresge Medical Research Building-Chillers and Cooling Towers
replacement; sanitary sewer and electrical duct replacement south of the
Adult General Hospital. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
X. OTHER
Office of State Relations Name Change
Regent Dunn moved to approve the change in the name of the Office of
State Relations to the Office of Government Relations. Corresponding changes
in Regents' Bylaws will be made as a part of the next general update of
those bylaws which will be brought to the Regents as a separate item.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Presidential Salary
Regent Nederlander then commented that it is not often that there is an
opportunity to show the gratitude of the Regents to the President of the
University, although they have told him from time to time for his efforts and
told him that he has done an outstanding job. But it is also important to
recognize that the President, in their opinion, is not adequately compen



136


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


sated. Regent Nederlander then moved that in addition to the previous
percentages of benefits provided to the president that his salary be increased
to $107,000 per year. Regent Dunn seconded the motion.
President Shapiro expressed his appreciation to Regent Nederlander.
Regent Roach indicated that it was appropriate to comment that the
feedback he has received from all of the University's constituents, the
legislature, governor's office, faculty and staff of the University, alumni,
and, indeed people in the higher education community across the nation has
been extremely high in praising the job the president has been doing, not
only in administering a very complex institution, but also as a spokesman
for higher education, particularly public higher education, in this nation.
The Regents are sincerely appreciative, and feel that this action is necessary
and appropriate in order to raise the compensation level to where it should
be.
Regent Baker remarked that frequently one finds that in the recruiting
process the compensation levels of new executives, key officers, and scholars at universities are above that of the president, and the people of the state
should be made aware of that fact. The position carries enormous responsibilities and those responsibilities are met superbly. There is no doubt that the
President of The University of Michigan is underpaid and the Regents are
grateful that it is possible to make this adjustment.
Regent Power indicated that compensation is only one measure to express what the President does to provide leadership to this University and in
many other areas in the state as well. Regent Power noted the unanimous
respect and appreciation of the members of the Board for the President's
wife, Vivian, and the very great contribution which she makes to the
President's wide range of responsibilities.
President Shapiro thanked the Board and commented that he appreciated
all of the comments. He then called for the vote and it was unanimously
adopted.
CIA Interviews
Regent Baker then commented briefly of the events of Wednesday when
the CIA representatives came to the University to interview students of
which there were about fourteen, who wished to be interviewed. Those
representatives of the United States government were prevented from interviewing the students. Certainly those people who protested the CIA's presence on campus have a right to be heard, and they have the right to exercise
free speech, but the other side of that coin is free speech which is intimidated and diminished when someone on this campus cannot interview a
government agency with whom they wish to work. Regent Baker said that,
in his view, it is an intolerable situation, and an apology is due to the
students who could not interview and to the government agency which could
not interview on this campus. He was aware that the President was concerned and he hoped that this would not be a frequent occurrence.
President Shapiro stated that he was concerned and he felt that what
happened was inappropriate. The openness of the University community is
less for instances like that.
Regent Roach indicated that even if only one student on this campus




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1984


137


wanted to interview with an agency of the government or an employer, the
concept that an almost vigilante group of students exercising their view of
what is morally just and correct can interfere with the rights of that minority
is something that we should make sure does not occur. One of the responsibilities of the Board and the University is to see that everyone, whether their
view is popular or unpopular, has the right to exercise their freedoms and
rights. It was a very unfortunate incident. He said that he sincerely hoped
that those who were involved realize that they probably didn't make any
gains by this action.
President Shapiro commented that he agreed as long as there was a
single student who wishes to interview, that was an important right to
preserve. Even if there were no students who wished to interview, but
simply a legitimate organization wanting to say something to those who are
interested, openness means that they should be permitted to have their say.
Regent Nederlander said that what was so outrageous about it was those
people who protest the government coming on campus, or whatever group,
would be those who would complain the most if their views were not
allowed to be heard. This University has been open to many, many things, a
number of which not all would agree on, but that is the purpose of an
academic community at the University of Michigan. It is an outrageous
denial of rights.
The President reminded the Board that they would meet in executive
session immediately upon adjournment.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
October totaled $2,834.59.
The meeting was adjourned. The next meeting of the Board would be
December 20 and 21, 1984.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 17, 1984
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Roach,
Varner, and Waters. Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich,
Interim Vice President Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy
also were present. Regents Nederlander and Power were absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated that the first
item on the agenda would be the Michigan Student Assembly report.
Michigan Student Assembly Report
Scott Page, President of MSA, introduced Steve Kaplan, Vice President
of MSA, and Bill Mellin, Chief Financial Officer.
Mr. Page commented that each year a report is presented to the Regents
of the previous year's financial records. The direction of the assembly and
its function with respect to the students will be covered at a subsequent
meeting.
Mr. Mellin reviewed the financial report. He mentioned the budgeted
deficit resulting from the surplus of the previous year and utilizing the
surplus to provide student services for which the funds are intended. The
replacement of a stolen computer system, and the disposal and replacement
of a copy machine added to the deficit this year. There was also an increase
in personnel expenses because of the transfer of administrative responsibilities for the student health insurance program to the Public Health Student
Association.
The officers of Michigan Student Assembly then responded to questions
concerning student legal services, lobbying activities, and the course evaluation program. Regent Roach suggested that MSA should proceed with
caution with respect to funding an organization that might have political
tendencies because it is unlawful in Michigan for corporations to make any
political donations. In response to a question, Mr. Page indicated that an
analysis of the structure of MSA was being done at the present time,
particularly looking into extending the term of the officers to two-year terms
for continuity purposes.
President Shapiro then introduced Regent-elect Veronica Smith, who
was in attendance, and extended his congratulations.
M-CARE
Vice Provost George Zuidema reviewed the proposal for the University
of Michigan Health Plan, M-CARE. He indicated that the proposal would
offer improved options to faculty and staff. It would be competitive with
other HMO options and would offer many advantages. President Shapiro
commented that information concerning the health care options in addition
to the University's standard plan would be made available to faculty and
139




140


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


staff in February. The University's contribution to employees would remain
at the current level, and the employee would be responsible for any premium
in excess of that contribution.
Regent Baker said that his concern was whether or not the University
should be in the health care provider business or should strictly be a facility
which provides hospital and medical services on a broad basis to the
community. There was no indication in the document of the obligations,
costs, and risks that the University would incur. In his view, the concept of
competitiveness to buy the best services at the cheapest rate is violated when
one has its own preferred provider organization. Another factor of substantial concern is the relationship with Blue Cross/Blue Shield as well as other
providers. Regent Baker said that he has always felt that it was the intention
of the administration to implement a health care plan of some kind, and he
has resisted it to some degree because he wished to prevent the University
from being in a position where it is committed to a long-term policy that
would be detrimental in the long run.
Dr. Zuidema commented that, basically, the University currently is in
the health care business. Patients are needed to operate the new hospital and
ambulatory care facility effectively, and to fulfill the teaching and research
missions of the Medical School. The preferred provider organization can be
considered an approach to protect patient flow and to provide some experience to the University as an insurer. By limiting subscribers to faculty and
staff for the first year or two, the University would have an opportunity to
bring about economies of operation within the medical service plans within
the Medical School and to become more competitive in dealing with all of
the pressures that are being encountered.
Dr. Zuidema indicated that Blue Cross/Blue Shield would continue to
underwrite that portion of the plan, but the major medical portion would be
insured by Provident Insurance Company. If an option of this kind is not
offered to the faculty and staff, the University will lose subscribers to other
plans that are being made available and would cause a significant financial
loss. Dr. Zuidema apologized for the lateness of the report, but the details of
the plan had just been completed. He said the administration wanted to offer
an option that would be competitive with other organizations in order to
bring people to University Hospitals. Health care would not be limited only
to those who subscribed to the University plan.
Regent Baker said that, in his view, the issue is, would it be better for
the University to offer only bed, medical service, and the facility than to go
into the health insurance business? Will the University Hospital facilities be
successful without M-CARE?
Dr. Zuidema responded that the world of health care reimbursement has
changed so dramatically and rapidly that unless the University is in the
health care business, the University will be out of the business.
Regent Dunn noted than an HMO feasibility study had been undertaken
several years ago which concluded that the creation of such an organization
would not be economically advisable. What are the circumstances that has
changed that view?
Dr. Zuidema responded that there is now a realization that change must
occur. The administrations of the Hospital and Medical School are willing to




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


141


take the necessary steps to become competitive in this area by evaluating the
cost, the fee structure, and to do some reshuffling.
Regent Roach indicated that his recollection of the HMO study was that
it was financially feasible, but the Medical campus did not want to do the
planning that would be required to implement the program. Several years
ago all of the insured plans were transportable, but now the HMOs and
preferred provider organizations specify certain participating doctors and
hospitals. There is no longer a choice. The University had the opportunity
five years ago to be in the forefront of the field. Now the University is faced
with competitors who are providing hospitals and doctors in an effort to
contain and moderate health care costs. The University has no choice but to
provide these medical services or the Hospital will close.
Dr. Zuidema commented that the PPO, preferred provider organization,
will commence with limited subscribers, will be used as a model to gain
experience, and to improve services to all patients. Two additional primary
care physicians will be retained to facilitate the family doctor role, and the
program will be handled in the regular clinical operations. The Blue Cross/
Blue Shield plan would be retained, but there would be a new provider for
the major medical portion which would add outpatient services to the
package.
Following further discussion on various aspects of the proposed program, President Shapiro stated that the University administration considers
the issue of cost containment to be of utmost importance, and it is essential
to protect the University's assets, teaching and research base in the Medical
Center. Adopting this program would be a way to begin operating in this
area. There will be an open enrollment period beginning on February 1
which will offer a choice in health care coverage to faculty and staff. It
would be desirable to add the M-CARE program to the list.
Regent Baker then moved to approve the proposal for a University of
Michigan Family Health Plan, M-CARE. Regent Baker said that his motion
for approval is on the condition that the Regents are kept fully informed of
developments. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Governor's Commission on Higher Education Report
President Shapiro indicated that he wished to comment briefly on the
report of the Governor's Commission on Higher Education. There has not
been sufficient time to analyze the report; therefore, discussion at this time
would be limited.
President Shapiro said the report provides an interesting, provocative,
and articulate framework for moving ahead in the appropriate support of
higher education in Michigan; it addresses the issue of priorities, the needs
of the research universities, and the needs of the University of Michigan for
such items as instructional equipment, matching grants for faculty endowment, and research funding on the basis of success in achieving external
research contracts. The Commission confronted the role and mission of
various colleges and universities in Michigan to the extent, in some instances, of focusing attention on setting priorities, deciding that not every
school can be everything to everybody.
There are many positive issues raised in the report which provide an




142


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


appropriate framework for discussion regarding support of higher education,
including enhanced financial aid to students. Other issues that were raised
would have to be resolved within the legislature, for example, the statement
that indicates tuition rates in Michigan ought to be contained. Everyone
agrees with that statement; however, it would be difficult to accomplish
without adequate state support.
President Shapiro mentioned some other aspects of the report, including
program review, effective use of resources, core curriculum and minimum
admission requirements. The President said that, on the whole, his response
to the report is positive. The report points to issues which the University has
been attempting to discuss for a long time. If the spirit of the report and the
type of resource commitments are implemented, Michigan higher education
would be greatly benefited.
Regent Roach remarked that, in general, he shared the President's
observations of the report. The three campuses of The University of Michigan have already implemented some of the recommendations, and there are
others that should be reviewed and discussed, for instance, student entrepreneurship training.
Regent Roach said that he disagreed strongly with respect to the method
of selection of governing boards as suggested in the report. Each method of
selection, either elected or appointed, has advantages and disadvantages.
The election process has worked very well for this institution for over 100
years, and it has prevented, for the most part, the politicization of the
Board. The issue should be addressed in public discussion. Regent Roach
thought that, with a few exceptions, the report was excellent and presents
many challenges to the University, the governor, and the legislature.
President Shapiro noted that he would not want his remarks to be taken
as endorsing every suggestion in the report. There are many problematic
suggestions which will be reviewed. He does, however, support the report in
general.
Regent Dunn commented that he was concerned also with the mention of
the method of selection of the governance of the three major research
institutions in the state. He felt, too, that the creation of a cooperative
lobbying effort would be a mistake because it would relinquish a great deal
of the autonomy of the University in favor of the state.
Regent Baker indicated he was not persuaded that the report had addressed the question of higher education as carefully or as fairly as it should.
The various administrations of the University have reviewed and implemented many of the recommendations in the report over the past several
years. The basic problem is money. The state has not funded higher education adequately.
With respect to the composition of the members of the commission,
Regent Baker felt that individuals with more conservative viewpoints and
some active members in the governance of institutions of higher education
should have been included. In his view, the report was biased because of the
selection of the members, although he understood the selection was to
prevent undue influence of any particular group.
Regent Baker was concerned also about the suggestions to give the
Department of Management and Budget oversight of the University, and a




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


143


database which would be controlled by the state Board of Education. He
said he did not believe that the best interests of higher education would be
served by the administrative branch of government. He agreed with Regents
Dunn and Roach that appointing, rather than electing, the governing boards
of the three major research institutions in the state would be detrimental to
the freedom and independence of those universities. Regent Baker said he
hoped the governor would provide an opportunity for discussion of the
report with some of the members of governing boards of the state institutions.
Vice President Kennedy commented that he would like to mention the
treatment of the media with respect to some serious misinformation about
the future of the Dearborn campus. On the day the report was released, there
were several accounts indicating that closure of the campus might be anticipated. There was no such statement or recommendation in the report, and no
one was thinking along those lines. Vice President Kennedy said that he felt
that particular point needed to be clarified.
The discussion that followed encompassed the classification of the Dearborn and Flint campuses as regional state colleges; the opportunity provided
for university presidents to address the commission, additional comments on
the autonomy of the University, and the position of the commission on
remodeling and capital improvements.
Regent Baker observed that the report was broader in scope than just
higher education. It mentioned the K-12 system and the community colleges, which he felt were quite separate issues. The community colleges are
funded, in part, on a local level. This unnecessarily complicates the equation
and should be considered separately. If The University of Michigan were
funded on the same basis as the University of California, Berkeley, the
budget would have to be increased significantly to equal the support the state
of California gives to its competing institutions.
President Shapiro noted that if the entire amount suggested in the report
went to The University of Michigan, it would not equal the level of support
per student of the California universities. However, if all of the options
recommended were implemented for fiscal year 1986, it would be a major
step in the right direction, but certainly would not solve all of the problems.
Regent Roach said some of the things the commission recognizes are the
same things that Vice President Frye has had to work into the 1985-86
budget request, specifically, the need to make up the deferred purchases of
instructional equipment, deferred maintenance, and, to the extent the state
will recognize as an independent budget item, the research excellence funds.
If those kinds of concepts were to be recognized as independent budget
items, separate from other appropriations needs and the natural growth
driven by inflation of those needs, it accomplishes the University's purpose,
and a large measure of these benefits would flow to this campus.
Regent Dunn remarked that he did not think that this report can be
looked at independently, because a report on K-12 education also will be
issued. The governor will include all of education in his State of the State
message which will encompass kindergarten through the university level.
Vice President Frye observed that there were many details and recommendations in the report that he believes would work to the advantage of
this institution and certainly to higher education in general. But it is very




144


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


important not to overlook several very broad aspects of the report that
accumulatively needed to be recognized in this state at this time in history.
These included an emphasis on the quality of higher education and the
conditions that are necessary to maintain it, an emphasis on differentiation
of the several institutions that make up the system, and the importance of
that differentiation not only to serve the needs of the clientele of the state,
but for the state to be able to continue to support a high quality system of
higher education. It is absolutely critical to the University's well being to
place a strong emphasis on the overall financial needs, not only detailed
funding, of higher education in the state, and to acquire a higher priority for
funding from the state.
Finally, Vice President Frye said that the report, at least implicitly and in
some cases explicitly, puts a very strong emphasis on finding programmatic
bases for making decisions about higher education rather than narrow political ones. In his view, if these bases can be adopted, even in part, it is bound
to have an enormously beneficial influence on restoring the state system,
and this institution in particular. Despite the fact that one might quarrel with
some of the particular recommendations, the question is, can the report be
acted upon favorably over some period of time.
Chancellor Jones indicated that he found the report, in general, most
acceptable. However, he expressed some concern over the tone and possible
interpretation of differentiation between research-oriented institutions and
the regional campuses. He hoped the differentiation is not suggesting a
different level of need, especially in the area of capital development. The
Flint campus is about 60% completed, and the criteria mentioned in the report
for funding future capital development suggests that the regional campuses do
not have the same kind of needs for quality as the research institutions.
Regent Roach indicated that, in his view, the report specifically recognizes the need to support all of these classifications and to have excellence
within all of the classifications. He said he thought it was encouraging that
state funding of recreation buildings, nonacademic and non-research structures were not recommended. A great many campuses have had many kinds
of structures paid for by the taxpayers' money which fall outside that
category. Therefore, if the state's priorities are shifted to academic buildings, the facilities that are needed on all of The University of Michigan
campuses will receive the priority to which they are entitled.
State Audit Report
Vice President Brinkerhoff then mentioned that the state audit report that
had been distributed to the Regents was the first of four audit reports, and
recommendations and responses to the comments for this first report will be
brought to the February meeting.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Robert Ball, alumnus, on energy conservation problems;
David Michelthun, former student, on divestment in South Africa; Regina
Hunter, alumna, and Randy McDuffie, student, representing the Council for
Black Student Organizations.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


145


I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of October 18 and 19, 1984 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his monthly reports on investment
transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and the
replacement hospital project.
Vice President Sussman filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Replacement Hospital Project
With respect to the replacement hospital project, Regent Baker asked if
progress was being made with the moving equipment program.
Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that the moveable equipment program was progressing very well. A report has been sent to the Regents
indicating the number of packages that are out for bid, approximately 30,
and everything is on schedule.
Regent Baker asked if there was any concern about the cost or the
progress in that regard. Vice President Brinkerhoff said the he had none; in
fact, most of the bid packs that have been received and let at this point have
been marginally under the estimates, and we are accumulating those for any
that may come in over the estimates.
President Shapiro commented that the executive officers have recently
reviewed the total financial status of the entire project, including equipment,
activation, and construction. The executive officers are satisfied that the
project is within its budget.
Dermatology Practice Acquisition
Dr. George Zuidema, Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, reviewed the
request to acquire a private Dermatology practice in Dearborn, Michigan.
Regent Waters moved approval to acquire the Dermatology practice of Dr.
Raymond Glowacki of Dearborn, Michigan, at a cost of $100,000. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The meeting was then recessed for one hour.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Allied Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey; for automotive transportation research
in the Institute of Science and Technology fund............................ $5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds............... 43,167
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for research in the Medical School fund  87,583
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Schools of
Medicine and Public Health funds....................................... 36,577
American Hoechst Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey; for research in the College
of Pharmacy  fund....................................................  8,000
American v. Mueller Division, American Hospital Supply Corporation, Chicago,
Illinois; for the William C. Grabb Plastic Surgery Fund in the Medical School
fund..............................................................  5,000
Amelsco Exploration, Inc., Reno, Nevada; for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..............................  6,325




146


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


Anonymous Donor, Ann Arbor; for general support of the Kelsey Museum of
Archaeology and for furnishings in the Tappan all Library; College of Literature,
Science and the Arts funds.............................................  15,250
Mary G. Armstrong Estate; for construction of the Alumni Center fund........... 29,470
Asarco, Inc., Knoxville, Tennessee; for geological sciences support in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..................................  6,450
Mary Baloyan Trust; for the Martin A. Baloyan and Newart B. Baloyan scholarships
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts and in the School of Music
funds..............................................................  11,276
Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, Southfield; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration  Campaign  fund................................  5,000
Bechtel Foundation, San Francisco, California; for the Biological Station Lecture
Hall, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund......................  5,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso; for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley
Scholarship  fund.....................................................  10,407
Ruth D. Bingham Estate; for The University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute
fund...............................................................  5,000
Robert C. Bonney Estate; for the Gertrude L. and Robert C. Bonney Medical Research Fund in the Medical School fund..................................  10,000
Boston Globe Foundation, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts; for the Journalists in Residence Program of the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for
Employee  Matching  Gifts funds..........................................  25,100
P. A. & A. M. Bower Charitable Trust; for the P. B. Fralick Ophthalmology
Fund  in  the  M edical School fund........................................  10,000
Mr. & Mrs. Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids Bankers Trust New York Corporation
common stock, for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and the School
of Business Administration; and for unrestricted support of the Campaign for
Michigan, Clements Library, and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies  funds........................................................  6,711
Mr. and Mrs. Will M. Caldwell, West Bloomfield Ford Motor Company common
stock, for unrestricted support of the Campaign For Michigan fund............ 11,922
Chevron, U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California; for Employee Matching Gifts fund.... 10,360
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical  School  fund......................................................  15,232
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; for Employee Matching Gifts fund...........  6,391
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for actuarial science support in the
School of Business Administration  fund..................................  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. David S. Clyde, Ann Arbor Standard Oil Company of Indiana common  stock, for future designation  fund...................................  9,056
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for power systems support in the College of
Engineering  fund.....................................................  30,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York; for the Coopers & Lybrand
Norman E. Auerbach Accounting Research Fund in the School of Business
Adm inistration  fund...................................................  25,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York; for research in
the  M edical School fund...............................................  17,500
Craft-Line, Inc., Hazel Park; for support of the CAD/CAM Engineering Program,
The University of Michigan-Dearborn fund................................  5,000
D and R Fund, Chicago, Illinois; for the Tappan Hall Library Campaign, College of
Literature, Science  and  the  Arts fund....................................  69,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit; for the Helen L. DeRoy Honors Program
Fund in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund................. 50,000
Detroit Swedish Council, Inc., Royal Oak; for Swedish language studies in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..............................  9,.105
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland; for support of various units in the
College of Engineering, and of research in the Institute of Science and Technology  funds........................................................  25,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York; for electrical engineering fellowships in  the College of Engineering  fund..................................  15,824




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


147


Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for support of the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts; the Schools of Business Administration and Law; and for Employee Matching Gifts funds................ 80,650
Federal-Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund, Detroit; for unrestricted support
of the School of Business Administration Campaign fund.................... 20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the Ford Fellowship in the College of Engineering  fund.........................................................  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Frankel, Bloomfield Hills; for construction of the Library, School
of Business Administration fund........................................  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Freehling, Chicago, Illinois; for the William Wilhartz Assistant Professorship in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.......  5,000
Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the William Wilhartz
Assistant Professorship in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.. 38,000
General Dynamics Land Systems, Warren; for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program  in  the College of Engineering  fund..................................  25,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut; for fellowships and faculty support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering
funds..............................................................  36,600
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for support of the School of Business Administration  fund.....................................................  40,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics  fund............................................................  10,000
Cecil H. Haas Estate; for unrestricted support of the Law School fund............ 15,000
George Henry Hobart, Jr. Estate; for faculty support via the Office of Academic Affairs  fund...........................................................  22,500
Alma D. Hunt Estate; for unrestricted support of the School of Nursing fund.......  5,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; for support of
the IBM Educational Program in Management Information Systems in the School
of Business Administration  fund........................................  12,000
Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit; for the Yiddish Professorship in thc College of
Literature, Science  and  the  Arts fund....................................  10,000
Johnson's Wax Fund, Inc., Racine, Wisconsin; for construction of the Burn Center
fund...............................................................  50,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York; for research in
the  M edical School fund...............................................  10,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the Max Kade Foundation
Exchange Program in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...... 10,000
Kean Manufacturing Corporation, Dearborn; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Fund, The University of Michigan-Dearborn fund.......................... 50,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek; for education and research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
Fund for patient care activities in The University of Michigan Hospitals fund....  7,517
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York; for fellowships and other history of art support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...... 12,500
Kroc Foundation, Santa Barbara, California; for research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  6,40 9
Evangeline Lewis Estate; for English Department salaries in the College of Literature, Science  and  the  Arts fund.........................................  15,000
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign, and for employee Matching Gifts funds.. 50,375
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana; for research in the Center for Research  on Learning  and Teaching  fund...................................  9,600
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the College of
Literature, Science  and  the Arts fund....................................  10,000
Magna International, Inc., Downsview, Ontario, Canada; for entrepreneurial studies
in the School of Business Administration fund.............................  50,000
Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc., Findlay, Ohio; for research and scholarships in the
College of Engineering, and for equipment in the College of Literature, Science
and  the  A rts  funds....................................................  9,900




148


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


Julian G. McIntosh, Palm Beach, Florida; for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Scholarship in the School of Music fund........................................  5,000
Vera McIntosh, Bloomfield Hills; for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Scholarship in
the School of Music fund..............................................  5,000
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund in The University
of Michigan Hospitals fund............................................  26,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology fund......... 169,250
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint; for support of The University of MichiganFlint, Physical Therapy Program fund.................................... 12,500
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  fund...................................................  25,000
National Dairy Council, Rosemont, Illinois; for renal disease research in the Medical
School fund.........................................................  11,225
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, New York, New York; for scholarships in the College of Engineering fund................................ 13,000
Nelson Research, Irvine, California; for research in the College of Pharmacy fund..  6,250
Pillsbury Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota; for the Pillsbury Fellowships in the
School of Business Administration fund..................................  6,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York; for the Price Waterhouse Auditing Professorship in the School of Business Administration fund............ 30,000
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for graduate fellowships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts
funds...............................................................  26,205
Maurine E. Russell, Grand Rapids; for Alzheimers Disease research in the Medical
School  fund.........................................................  5,000
Lucille Toups Sawyer Estate; for unrestricted support of the Law School fund......  7,448
Schlumberger Foundation, Sugar Land, Texas; for the Schlumberger Foundation
Scholarship  in the College of Engineering  fund............................  6,000
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas; for fellowships and other support in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature, Science and the Arts funds.. 40,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California; for the George Cavender Marching Band
Scholarship  in  the School of Music fund..................................  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. W. Dean Smith, Ann Arbor IBM Corporation common stock; for
the Ward Dean and Mary Wylnetta Smith Fund, a charitable remainder unitrust,
for student aid  in  the School of Music fund.................................  61,875
Helmut Stem Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Helmut Stem - Museum of Art fund.. 12,400
Michael   A.   Stoner,  Carlisle,  Pennsylvania;  for  the  Victor   L.
Streeter Fund in the College of Engineering fund...........................  5,000
Nancy    Bassett  Sunday,   San   Antonio,   Texas   Hoover   Universal,
Inc. common stock; for the Nancy B. Sunday Fund, a life income agreement
for student aid  in  the School of Music fund...............................  17,102
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts; for research in the Medical
School  fund.........................................................  6,239
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York; for support of the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering, and for
Employee  M atching  Gifts funds..........................................  7,210
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor; for the President's fund............. 22,260
Trans-Industries, Inc., Waterford; for construction of the Computer Center, School
of Business Administration  fund........................................  5,000
Herbert E. Trapp, North Palm Beach, Florida; for unrestricted support of the Campaign  For M ichigan  fund..............................................  10,000
Carl F. Truitt Estate; for the Carl F. Truitt Student Aid Fund in the Law School
fund...............................................................  72,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New
York; for research in the Medical School fund.............................  19,659
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for support of the Schools of Business Administration
and Medicine, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds......................  7,475




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984                               149
S. K. Yee Foundation, new York, New York; for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the
Law  School fund.....................................................  50,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana. An original manuscript of Franz Liszt's "Canzone Neapolitana"; for the William L. Clements Library
John Fluke Manufacturing Company, Inc., Arcadia, California. Equipment for the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Robert Steven Hoop, Ann Arbor. Laboratory equipment for the Department of
Chemistry
Mager Scientific, Inc., Dexter. A Jena Laboval Pol microscope; for the Department
of Geological Sciences
Met-Chem Testing Laboratories, Inc., Dearborn. A Perkin Elmer infrared spectrophotometer; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of Natural
Sciences
Brownson Murray, West Bloomfield. Approximately 3,400 items of printed matter;
for the Law School Library
Scott Specialty Gases, Troy. Chemicals and laboratory equipment; for The University
of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural Sciences
Tech-S, Inc., Livonia. Approximately 8,451 items of electronic hardware; for the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Vice President Cosovich filed his monthly report on the Office of
Development and University Relations.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Cameron B. Courtney, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in Mathematics,
UM-Flint, Winter term, 1985
Yi-tsi M. Feuerwerker, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Far Eastern Languages and Literatures,
without tenure
Chihiro Kikuchi, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in Nuclear Engineering for a
one-year period
Dennis Rigan, Professor Emeritus, appointment extended in the Division of Physical Education,
Winter term, 1985
Duncan G. Steel, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, and Associate Professor of Physics, without tenure
Myron E. Wegman, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the School of Public
Health, for a one-year period
Richard C. Wilson, Professor Emeritus, appointed Acting Chairman of Industrial and Operations Engineering, for a six-month period
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Steven C. Althoen, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, appointed Chairman of
the Mathematics Department, UM-Flint, for a three and one-half year period
Frederick J. Beutler, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Professor of Information and Control Engineering, without tenure, September 1, 1984
Brian A. Burt, Professor of Dental Public Health, appointed Chairman of Community Health
Programs, for a three-year term




150


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


William H. Culp, Professor of Accounting, appointed Ernst & Whinney Professor of Management, UM-Dearborn, for a five-year term
Eugene E. Dekker, Professor of Biological Chemistry, appointed Acting Chairman of the
Department of Biological Chemistry, for a six-month period
Thomas J. DeKomfeld, Professor of Anesthesiology and Professor of Postgraduate Medicine
and Health Professions Education, also appointed Acting Chairman of Anesthesiology
George H. Jones, Professor of Biology and Associate Chairman of Biological Sciences,
appointed Interim Associate Dean of the Graduate School, November 15, 1985
John Jonides, Associate Professor of Psychology, appointed Acting Chairman of Psychology
Martin L. Norton, Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor, without tenure, in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, December 1, 1984
June E. Osborn, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, Dean of the School of Public Health,
also appointed Professor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure
Ara G. Paul, Professor of Pharmacognosy, with tenure, reappointed as Dean of the College of
Pharmacy, for a five-year term, July 1, 1985
Tony Tripodi, Professor of Social Work, appointed Interim Associate Dean of School of Social
Work, for a six-month period
Max S. Wicha, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Division Chief, Hematology/
Oncology, of Internal Medicine, also appointed Director of the Simpson Memorial Institute,
December 1, 1984
The following committee appointments were approved.
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Mr. Stephen Haddad, student member, for a one-year term through June 30, 1985
Advisory Committee on Recreation, Intramurals and Club Sports
Dr. Richard M. Lampman, to complete term through July 31, 1986, vice Dr. Matthew J.
Trippe, resigned
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Professor Sheila C. Feld, to complete term through August 31, 1985, vice Professor Tony
Tripodi, resigned due to assumption of administrative duties
University Musical Society, Officers and Directors
Confirmation of officers and directors elected by the Musical Society at its annual meeting held
on Thursday, December 6, 1984:
Gail W. Rector, President
John W. Reed, Vice President
Allen P. Britton, Treasurer
Douglas D. Crary, Secretary
The following directors were elected to succeed themselves for a threeyear term ending December 31, 1987:
Douglas D. Crary
Lois U. Stegeman
Richard L. Kennedy for a three-year term beginning January 1, 1985, vice Harold T. Shapiro,
due to revision in the University Musical Society Bylaw
Alan G. Merten for a three-year term beginning January 1, 1985, vice Wilbur K. Pierpont,
resigned
Ernst & Whinney Professorship in Management
The Regents approved the establishment of the Ernst & Whinney Professorship in Management (Accounting) at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS


The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


151


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
David Fleisher, Ph.D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1984
Peter M. Spalding, D.D.S., Dentistry, October 18, 1984
Mark C. Steinhoff, M.D., Epidemiology
Instructor
Bassam A. Bassam, M.D., Internal Medicine, February 1, 1982
Avril A. Haynes-Aaron, M.B.B.S., Anesthesiology, November 21, 1984
Bali Malik, M.D., Internal Medicine, October 1, 1984
William H. Marks, M.D., Ph.D., Surgery, November 1, 1984
Visiting Associate Professor
Susan T. Fiske, Ph.D., Psychology
Adjunct Professor
Ehud Lenz, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Michael J. Pikal, Ph.D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1984
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Judith Bromberg, Ph.D., Biostatistics, October 1, 1984
Florence M. Johnston, M.S., Nursing
Terry M. Vanden Bosch, M.S.N., Nursing
Adjunct Lecturer
Heather J. Buda, M.A., English Language Institute, November 1, 1984
Da'Lynn Clayton, B.S.N,, Nursing, November 10, 1984
Claudia R. Collin, Ph.D., Division of Education, UM-Dearborn
Linda Cronenwett, Ph.D., Nursing
Carl W. Dahmer, B.S., Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Louis J. Erste, B.A., Political Science
Dianna B. Fox, M.S.W., Nursing
Larry W. Hertzler, B.S.E.E., Anesthesia, UM-Flint
Peter F. Plank, B.Sc., Chemistry, UM-Dearborn
Sharon A. Redmer, M.S., Nursing
Gail M. Ricketts, Anesthesia, UM-Flint
Clinical Instructor
Laura L. Kulakowski, B.S., Pharmacy, October 29, 1984
Tama D. Martini, M.D., Family Practice, November 1, 1984
Demetrios N. Mermiges, M.D., Internal Medicine, November 1, 1984
Monica F. Smith, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Barbara E. Bryant, from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Professor of Marketing
Thomas A. D'Aunno, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Hospital Administration
Paul A. Green, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Art, also appointed Adjunct Assistant Professor
of Industrial and Operations Engineering
Virginia S. Nelson, from Instructor to Adjunct Lecturer of Community Health Programs, July 1,
1984
Shelley K. Perlove, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Art History, UM-Dearborn
Kenneth T. Trotman, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Visiting Associate Professor of Accounting
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Ray A. Brinker, Professor of Radiology, November 13, 1984
Gayl A. Jones, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, May 31, 1984




152


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


Daniel Korytnicki, Clinical Instructor of Dentistry, December 14, 1984
Howard P. Liss, Instructor of Internal Medicine, December 31, 1984
James D. Papsdorf, Associate Professor, Psychology, December 31, 1984
Gary J. Rentschler, Assistant Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, October 23, 1984
Harvey J. Whitfield, Jr., Associate Professor, Biological Chemistry, August 31, 1984
Leaves of Absence
Four off-campus assignments, five extended sick leaves, and one leave
of absence without salary were reported to the Regents.
East Engineering Building Renovation
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the capital financing in calendar
1985 for the Phase I renovation of the East Engineering Building in order to
consolidate the Department of Psychology into that building and a prospective Phase II capital financing later in 1985 for selected equipment and
renovation projects.
Vice President Brinkerhoff responded to questions concerning whether
the pledging of student funds for the project would retain an acceptable
ratio, whether these renovations could be covered under the category mentioned in the governor's report on higher education, and when the renovations would be completed in order for the Department of Psychology to
move into the East Engineering Building, and the impact the cost might
have on tuition.
Vice President Frye commented that the administration has determined
that this project is such an important priority that they are willing to have it
compete for other expenditure needs, whether it is the salary program,
additional faculty colleagues, or equipment. The renovations will be factors
competing for those other kinds of expenditures, all of which are driving the
University toward higher tuition to the extent that the state is failing to
provide the resources that are needed. The administration felt that this
commitment will help protect the excellence of the institution more than
some other way of spending the same amount of money annually, particularly because of the long history of this problem, the preeminence of the
psychology department, and the impact this will have upon the department's
ability to recruit and retain first-rate faculty.
Regent Varner remarked that this building is an asset to the University.
It is in good condition, but needs some renovation. It is being vacated and to not
do anything to the building would be to let this asset deteriorate. Regent Dunn
then moved to approve the capital financing plan in principle, subject to additional approval of the detail of the second issue, and approve the first project, as
detailed in the request. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of four faculty members.
The following retirement memoirs were adopted:
DAVID G. BOWERS, Associate Professor of Psychology, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 1984, after a very productive career as a researcher and teacher.
Born in Ohio, Professor Bowers studied at Kent State University, where he received his
bachelor's degree in business administration in 1957, and his master's degree in psychology in
1958. His doctoral work at The University of Michigan led to a Ph.D. in organizational
psychology in 1961.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


153


From 1962-66, as a study director in the Survey Research Center at the Institute for Social
Research, Professor Bowers became associated with Rensis Likert, Director of the Institute, and
Professor Stanley Seashore in a series of pioneering studies on participative management and
organizational change.
Next, Professor Bowers moved to the Institute's Center for Research on the Utilization of
Scientific Knowledge, while maintaining his close association with Likert. From 1966-70 he
directed what is still one of the largest studies of organizational interventions, the Michigan
Inter-Company Longitudinal Study. His Survey of Organizations, developed as a comparative
survey instrument for this study, has become one of the most widely used organizational
surveys in the world.
In the early 1970's, Professor Bowers directed research on the all-volunteer Navy and
helped to develop the Navy's Human Resource Management system. These projects, along with
his other organizational studies, led to the formulation of the "survey-guided development"
paradigm of organizational development and change. Over these years, Professor Bowers also
continued to offer a popular graduate course on theories of organizational change, which he
taught until his retirement.
His research since the mid-1970's, as program director at the Center for Research on the
Utilization of Scientific Knowledge, focused on problems of "human resource accounting" and
led to his Systems of Organization book. By 1978, he had also become president and vice
chairman of Rensis Likert Associates, Inc. In 1982, in the wake of the air traffic controllers'
strike, Professor Bowers was appointed by Secretary of Transportation Drew Lewis to a
three-person committee which studied the causes and the consequences of that major strike.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychologist for his dedicated service by naming
him Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
DELMONT K. BYRN, Professor of Education and former Chairman of the Guidance and
Counseling Program in the School of Education of The University of Michigan, will retire from
active faculty status as of December 31, 1984. He has demonstrated excellence in his long
and productive career as a state supervisor of guidance, coordinator of extension, and
counselor-educator.
Born February 9, 1919, in Redfield, South Dakota, he received the Bachelor of Science
degree in 1941 from South Dakota State College. In 1947, he received the Master of Education
degree and, in 1950, the Doctor of Education degree from the University of Missouri.
During World War II he served as an infantry officer for four and one-half years, attaining
the rank of major. In combat, he earned the Distinguished Service Cross, Silver Star, Bronze
Star, Combat Infantry Badge, European Theater of Operations Ribbon with five Bronze Stars,
and the Presidential Unit Citation.
Since joining The University of Michigan faculty in 1952, he has conducted graduate
courses, seminars, field experiences, practica in guidance and counseling, and has directed 50
doctoral dissertations. Professor Byrn has taught over 100 university extension courses in 45
Michigan cities. For many years he coordinated the scheduling of School of Education
extension courses, consisting of 230 courses in peak years.
Before coming to Michigan, Professor Byrn was State Supervisor of Guidance Services in
the Missouri State Department of Education. He had previously served as Occupational
Counselor at the University of Missouri Counseling Bureau for several years and was an
assistant professor of education there. In Missouri, he edited three different newsletters for the
State Department of Education and professional organizations, and authored several monographs for the State Department of Education. Later he edited the Vocational Guidance
Quarterly for the National Vocational Guidance Association for six years, was chairman of the
American Personnel and Guidance Association's Publications Committee for three years, and
served as a trustee and editorial board member of the National Vocational Guidance Association. He was president of the Wolverine Personnel and Guidance Association and a member of
the State Guidance Committee in Michigan. In all, he has authored approximately 10 monographs, 20 journal articles, and various curriculum units and pamphlets, as well as two regular
columns in professional journals.
For his dedicated and loyal service to The University of Michigan and for his exemplary record
as a teacher and counselor, the Regents name Delmont K. Byrn Professor Emeritus of Education.
FRANK WILLIAM COMSTOCK, D.D.S., M.S., Professor of Dentistry and Director of
Clinics in the School of Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status as of December 31,
1984, following 34 years as an outstanding clinician, teacher and administrator.




154


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


Born May 26, 1920, in Monroe, Michigan, Dr. Comstock graduated from Monroe High
School in 1938. He then began a 45-year association with The University of Michigan, earning
the A.B. degree in 1942, the D.D.S. degree in 1950, and the M.S. degree in operative dentistry
in 1955. His education was interrupted by World War II when, in 1942, he joined the Marines
and participated in five landings in the South Pacific over the next three years. He received a
Navy Unit Citation and a Presidential Unit Citation for his military service.
He began his teaching career at the School of Dentistry in 1950 as a clinical instructor,
rising through the ranks to professor in 1967. He is a co-author of a textbook on operative
dentistry widely used throughout the country. In addition to teaching, he served on a variety of
school committees and has been affiliated with several professional dental organizations. He is
a member of Phi Kappa Phi honor society and Omicron Kappa Upsilon dental honor society.
Dr. Comstock was instrumental in establishing the dental assistant utilization program in
1961 in line with the educational goals of four-handed dentistry and maximum dental productivity. In connection with this interest, he served several years on the Dental Assistant Advisory
Committee at Washtenaw Community College, helping that school set up its training program.
In his role as Director of Clinics, a position he assumed in 1969, he came to know
thousands of students as he administered the enormous logistic task of dovetailing assignments
of students, patients, staff and clinic facilities for a large dental school. Prior to assuming
administrative responsibility for the clinics, Dr. Comstock taught in the Department of Operative Dentistry, and for 15 years was in charge of the graduate restorative program which deals
with complex dental cases. His excellent teaching skills were heralded in 1969 when he was
named recipient of the Paul Gibbons Award, the highest student-bestowed teaching honor at the
School of Dentistry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
RICHARD C. WILSON, Professor of Industrial Engineering in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status as of December 31, 1984, after a most productive
career as a teacher and researcher.
Professor Wilson took undergraduate studies at Carnegie Institute of Technology, receiving
his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering in 1942. He attended Lehigh University and received
his M.S. degree in mechanical engineering in 1947. Professor Wilson earned his Ph.D. degree
from The University of Michigan in 1961.
Professor Wilson joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as an instructor in 1955,
and became an assistant professor in the Department of Industrial Engineering when it was
created'in 1961. At that time, the department consisted of seven full-time faculty members,
three part-time appointments, and fewer than 150 students. Today the department (renamed
Industrial and Operations Engineering in 1971) has nineteen full-time faculty members and
approximately 300 undergraduate and 100 graduate students. During the intervening years,
Professor Wilson progressed through the academic ranks, receiving the title of associate
professor in 1963 and professor in 1966. He has been an integrative influence on the growth
and direction of the department. Professor Wilson has served terms as program advisor, as a
member of the faculty's advisory committee to the chairman, as associate dean in the College of
Engineering from 1968-72, as acting department chairman twice, and as department chairman
from 1973-77. Professor Wilson also served as an elected faculty representative to the college's
executive committee during 1978-82.
During Professor Wilson's term as chairman, the department, for the first time, was
identified in national surveys as one of the top industrial engineering departments in the United
States, a standing that has been maintained in all subsequent surveys. He introduced the
teaching of organizational behavior in department programs by drawing on the staff of the
Institute for Social Research. This interaction continues, with industrial engineering faculty now
charged specifically with maintaining instruction, research and interdisciplinary ties in this field.
In 1978, Professor Wilson initiated a collaborative graduate program with the Mechanical
and Computer Engineering Departments in manufacturing. This initiative provided the genesis
of the college's subsequent organizing of the Center for Research on Integrated Manufacturing,
and a significant college research program now underway in robotics.
Professor Wilson's technical work has been in the area of production planning, with
particular focus on analysis of material handling systems and scheduling applications. His
research has been supported by a variety of sources, including the National Science Foundation,
General Motors, the U.S. Air Force, and the U.S. Economic Development Authority.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


155


In addition to his research, Professor Wilson has consulted with many firms, including Ford,
Bethlehem Steel, Herman Miller, AMP, Manufacturing Data Systems, Inc., and Federal Mogul,
on problems of plant layout, scheduling, material handling, and inventory control. In addition to
his familiarity with manufacturing facilities in the United States, Professor Wilson has visited
automated foundries in Sweden (under National Science Foundation auspices) and automotive
facilities in Japan (as part of a joint study of U.S. and Japanese automotive industries). In
1981, he co-chaired the National Science Foundation's production research conference, and in
1982 conducted a special NSF workshop on modeling and simulation of manufacturing systems.
Professor Wilson also has chaired the dissertation committees of fifteen doctoral recipients
at the University, half of whom now serve as faculty members at major universities.
In recognition of Richard C. Wilson's distinguished teaching, research and dedicated
service, the Regents name him Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering.
VII. MEMORIALS
There were no deaths reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
School of Education Specialist in Education, August, 1984
delete: Kristin Elizabeth Dye, A.B., Hanover College
Master of Public Policy, December, 1983
add: Janet Moore, B.S., University of Bristol, United Kingdom
Medical School, Master of Science, April, 1984, Biological Chemistry
add: David R. Starr, B.S., University of Pittsburgh
Dental School, Master of Science, August, 1984, Periodontics
add: William Edward Mason, D.D.S.
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: Julie Ann Clynes
Nancy Joann Keinrath
Annelies Gesela Moeser
Jennifer Jane Nelson
Catherine Lynn Pinkerton with Distinction
correct to show: Clifford Kenneth Liu
delete: Sharon Ruth Nassau with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, August 17, 1984
add: Rise Ann Futterer
Certificate in Physical Therapy, April 27, 1984
add: Mona Childs
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add:  Christine Elliott Kalbacher
Bachelor of Arts, August 19, 1983
add: Melinda Jill Lehman
Bachelor of Arts, April 30, 1982
add: Kathy Ann Young
Residential College Bachelor of Arts, December, 1984
add: Elisa Julia Blatteis
Isabel Stuart Bradbum
Bethany Joanne Gonzalez
Deborah E. Kanter
The Regents approved the recommendations of the Honorary Degree
Committee to award three honorary degrees at commencements during the
year 1985.




156


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


Real Property
Regent Dunn moved that the offer from Mr. Terry Woodry for $10,000 to
purchase the surface rights to the NW 1/4 of the SE 1/4, Section 28, Franklin
Township, Clare County, Michigan be accepted, subject to the reservation of
the mineral rights. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Nichols Arboretum
Regent Baker moved to authorize that Section 17(9) of the Regents'
Ordinance to Regulate Parking, Traffic, Littering, and Vehicular Noise on
the Property of the Regents of the University of Michigan be amended to
read as follows:
"The Arboretum shall be closed to all vehicular traffic other than emergency and service
vehicles. It shall also be closed to all persons between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
except as otherwise established by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
Section 17(8)."
Regent Dunn moved that authority be granted to execute an easement in
Ann Arbor Township, as described. Regent Waters seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Kinetic Instruments, Inc. Contract
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request for approval of a contract with Kinetic Instruments, Inc. He indicated that the president of the
local business, Associate Professor David P. Ballou, is an employee of the
University. It has been determined that there would not be any conflict of
interest involved if this contract is approved. In order to proceed with the
arrangements a two-thirds vote of the Board is required according to the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
Regent Roach moved to approve the proposed contract with Kinetic
Instruments, Inc. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted
with Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Roach, Varner, and Waters voting
affirmatively. Regents Nederlander and Power were absent.
Renovations
Regent Roach moved approval to proceed with the energy conservation
projects-School of Education Building, Microcomputer Lab; South Quadrangle First Floor Renovations; Medical Science I Renovations; and Michigan League Ballroom Improvements. Regent Waters seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Bylaws Changes, Section 5.19
Regent Dunn moved to repeal Section 5.19(5) of the Regents' Bylaws.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted. The Bylaw, as
revised, follows:
Sec. 5.19. Retirement of the President, Faculty and Executive Officers
1. Subject to the other provisions of this section, the term of service of the President, the
executive officers, and the members of the faculties shall not begin an academic or fiscal year
appointment after their seventieth birthday.
2. Subject to the provisions of subsection 3, the President, the executive officers and the
members of the professorial staff appointed prior to January 1, 1984, during the last year




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


157


preceding retirement shall be relieved of normal responsibilities and may be called upon to act
in a consulting capacity to the President, executive officers, deans or department heads, or to
conduct research in the individual's field of interest unless otherwise specifically provided by
the Board, and the salary during this period shall be the regular annual salary. This year
preceding termination of service is hereinafter referred to as the "terminal furlough" year.
Individuals appointed on or after January 1, 1984, are not eligible for the terminal furlough year.
3. The terminal furlough year shall not be available unless, the individual (a) has been
employed by the University at least ten years prior to the effective date of the terminal furlough;
and (b) has not taken a sabbatical leave during the past four years next preceding the effective
date of the terminal furlough. A person covered by this section but ineligible for the terminal
furlough year will continue to carry normal responsibilities in the University until retirement.
4. Persons covered by the section may request that the term of service terminates at the end
of the academic or fiscal year within which their sixty-second birthday occurs, or at the end of
any subsequent term up to the time of mandatory retirement. Such persons shall be entitled to a
terminal furlough year if eligible under subsections 2 and 3 above, but no terminal furlough
year shall begin until after the sixty-second birthday.
5. Emeritus status appropriate to the office or rank shall be granted at the date of full retirement.
6. No person retired under this section of the Bylaws may be reemployed by the University
in any capacity except by express action of the Board. The term of appointment for any
reemployment shall not exceed one fiscal year and may be renewed only by action of the Board.
Office of Development and University Relations Name Change
Regent Roach moved to approve a change in title from the Office of
Development and University Relations to the Office of Development and
Communication, as recommended by Vice President Jon Cosovich. Regent
Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee Resolutions
The Regents approved unanimously the resolutions for Graciela I. Harris, Ralph E. Huston, Vivian M. Lewis, J. Bernard Sloan, and John P.
O'Brien who are retiring from the UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee.
Construction Contract-UMH Burn Center
Regent Roach moved to approve the award of a construction contract to the
low bidder, Corvo Iron Works, Inc., Livonia, Michigan for structural steel and
Metal Decking of the 16-bed acute care unit of the University of Michigan
Hospitals' Bum Center. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
International Women's Decade Proclamation
On a motion by Regent Varner and seconded by Regent Waters the
following proclamation marking the close of The International Women's
Decade was adopted:
WHEREAS, in 1975-76 The University of Michigan fully supported the United Nation's
International Women's Year with a year-long series of programs and events;
And whereas, 1976 through 1985 have been designated by the United Nations as International
Women's Decade;
Be it RESOLVED that:
In recognition of the close of the Decade, The University of Michigan reviews its commitment to the Decade themes of equality, development, and peace, and to the sub-themes of
equality, development, and peace, and to the sub-themes of employment, health, and education,
by re-dedicating itself to the objectives set forth in the following United Nation's resolutions:
To promote equality between men and women;
To integrate women into the total societal and economic development of nations;
To recognize women's increasing contributions to the economy and social stability of
their nations and to strengthening world peace;
To provide women with broader, continuous educational opportunities for personal




158


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


and professional growth in order to benefit their families, their communities, and their
nations, as well as themselves.
Be it further RESOLVED that The University of Michigan will support a series of events
planned for 1985 to mark the close of the International Decade of Women. This calendar of
events, to be announced in January, 1985, is being sponsored by individual departments at the
University, with support from the President's Fund.
The University of Michigan urges the participation of all members of the University
community in recognition of the Decade, and in renewed efforts to increase and to improve the
roles of women within the University.
Robert E. Nederlander Resolution
Regent Brown commented that he was sorry that Regent Nederlander
was unable to attend the meeting. He then presented the following resolution:
The Regents of The University of Michigan now salute their friend and colleague ROBERT
E. NEDERLANDER as he completes sixteen years of devoted service as Regent of the University.
Even as a student, he demonstrated the qualities that would characterize his later efforts as a
Regent. As Captain of the 1955 Wolverine Tennis Team, Regent Nederlander helped to achieve
a Big 10 Championship and was cited for both academic and athletic leadership. He received
both his undergraduate training and his law degree from the University. That educational
background now undergirds not only his legal career but also his highly successful entrepreneurial activities in the entertainment industry.
Regent Nederlander served the University during one of the most tumultuous periods in its
history. The early years were marked by the upheaval that universities faced from anti-war
activities and the protests for social reform. His level-headedness and patient counsel were
invaluable in guiding the institution. The later years brought the problems of severely limited
resources which have tested the University's capacity to maintain excellence. Again, Regent
Nederlander provided the wisdom and courage that made solutions possible for even the most
difficult challenges. His capacity for leadership continues as he now heads the University's
most ambitious effort ever to raise $160 million from private philanthropy to restore the
resource base of the institution.
The Regents will miss this warm and generous colleague, but, thankfully, the University
will continue to benefit from his continued involvement in the Capital Campaign. They join the
entire community in extending their deep gratitude and high commendation for his long and
dedicated service to the University and, indeed, all the citizens of Michigan. And to ensure his
continued involvement, they now proudly confer on Robert E. Nederlander the title Regent Emeritus.
Gerald R. Dunn Resolution
Regent Waters presented the following resolution:
On January 1, 1969, GERALD R. DUNN assumed the office of Regent of The University
of Michigan, thus beginning a continuous record of loyal service that would extend for sixteen
years.
Though a graduate of Central Michigan University, there is no more dedicated alumnus of
this university than Regent Dunn. Throughout his tenure, he has demonstrated a broad understanding of the institution and a remarkable capacity to reach decisions which preserve its best
traditions, yet accommodates to those changes which sustain its vitality and relevance to those it
serves.
Regent Dunn's contributions to education in this state are unparalleled. His career as
teacher, state senator, and now as representative of several school boards in Western Wayne
County has resulted in significant advances for public education at the elementary and secondary levels. And, of course, he completes the circle through his service on this board and his
membership on the Higher Education Assistance Authority. Few have demonstrated such a
remarkable capacity to contribute so well to the entire educational community.
Regent Dunn now takes his leave of this board. Surely he knows how much he will be
missed by his colleagues and friends who can be found among the faculty, staff, students and
alumni of this institution. His broad acquaintance is no accident since he troubled himself to
know their views before reaching his own conclusions.
The Regents extend their warm regards and convey their deep appreciation to this dedicated




DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


159


champion of education. They look forward to his continued participation in the life of the
University by naming him now Regent Emeritus.
Regent Baker said that it was hard to make observations without becoming a little maudlin, and he was sorry that Regent Nederlander was unable to
attend the meeting. With regard to Jerry Dunn, he said that it is significant
that he received recognition from groups other than the Board of Regents.
He mentioned the plaque from the Council for Black Student Organizations
which Regent Dunn had received during the public comments session.
Regent Baker said that these recognitions indicate that Regent Dunn did
reach out to many constituencies on campus. Although they have disagreed
on some issues from time to time, Jerry Dunn is a good friend, and it is an
indication that different views can live in harmony on the Board. It is not a
political Board and certainly Regent Dunn's efforts in that regard are
respected and appreciated. Regent Baker said that he feels a great deal of
sadness to see him leave the Board.
Regent Baker indicated that his feelings for Bob Nederlander are the
same. He represented a point of view that is well expressed in the resolution
that was read for him. He was a voice of constancy and stability, and one of
constant support of the best interests of this University.
Regent Varner said that the words of the resolutions certainly echo her
sentiments towards both Jerry and Bob. It has been a great pleasure working
with them, and she will miss them very much.
Regent Roach commented that this Board has been a real example of
collegiality in all of the ten years he has been involved. From time to time
each Regent differs with one another, sometimes in jest and sometimes in
high emotion. It is done, however, without rancor and in a way that debates
at the table have never been carried outside of the Regents' Room. The
disagreements have never interfered with their friendship and respect for
each other. It has been a tremendous experience for both Jerry and Bob to
work with this University, the three presidents, and the executive officers,
and it has been a great pleasure and honor to serve with both of them.
The Regents expect to see them frequently in the several environments in
which the Regents operate.
President Shapiro remarked that he has been an executive officer for
eight years which is half of the time that Jerry and Bob have spent on the
Board. Their advice, presence, and contribution to the University have
meant a great deal to him personally. It has made his job as vice president
for academic affairs and in more recent years as president, not only more
enjoyable, but more rewarding for their efforts. It is astonishing when you
think back to these sixteen years, the University's budget is almost five
times larger than it was when both Jerry Dunn and Robert Nederlander
became regents. The University was faced with many difficulties and challenges during this period, and there have been many successes under their
leadership. They were a very important part of that. They have served the
state and, through the University, the nation and the world with scholarship
in the manner of the greatest possible service. We are all aware of the salary
the Board of Regents is paid to serve the University and the state, and they,
as other members of the Board, always rose to the University's interests,




160


DECEMBER MEETING, 1984


and always acted in the University's interests. I cannot think of a single
occasion when it was otherwise. He said that he has learned a lot from both
of them, and wished that Bob Nederlander were here to tell him also.
Regent Dunn commented that he had thought about this time and wished
his running mate was here. They developed a reputation as the gold dust
twins: Bob was gold and I was dust. He then read a list of the Regents who
have served the University during the past sixteen years who have made
tremendous contributions to this University: Alvin Bentley, Robert Brown,
William Cudlip, Paul Goebel, Trudy Huebner, Larry Lindemer, Otis Smith,
and David Laro. Some very great names of great people who have contributed to the well being of this institution. Then there is President Fleming and
President Smith, Bill Pierpont, Michael Radock, Geoffrey Norman and
others who have served their time. Regent Dunn said that the greatest
pleasure has been meeting the great people who make up The University of
Michigan. He has learned, matched wits, made jokes and, all in all,
everyone has worked together. The people are what is so great about The
University of Michigan, its students, faculty, leadership, and everyone who
is a part of the "subway" alumni, as he likes to call them. He thanked the
voters for the opportunity to serve this institution and become a part of it. It
is now a part of his family.
Regent Baker mentioned that perhaps some consideration should be
given to placing a plaque in the Regents' room listing all of the people who
have served the University as regent. It would make an interesting historical
addition to the room. President Shapiro indicated that it was a good suggestion and every consideration would be given to it.
The resolutions were adopted unanimously.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
November totaled $1,807.12.
The Regents adjourned to meet on January 17 and 18, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




JANUARY MEETING, 1985
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 17, 1985
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President
Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and welcomed Regents
Nielsen and Smith to their first offical meeting of the Board.
The President then indicated that the meeting would commence with
some informal discussion with colleagues from the Law School. This is one
in a series of discussions the Board has been having with the deans and
executive committees of various schools and colleges. He then introduced
Dean Terrance Sandalow who, in turn, introduced Professors Edward Cooper, who is also the Associate Dean of the Law School, Lee Bollinger,
Joseph Sax, and Frederick Shauer.
Law School Committee
Dean Sandalow focused the discussion on the educational program of the
school. Primarily, the educational objective of legal education as it exists at
The University of Michigan was to provide the intellectual foundations for
an understanding of law in order to practice law, or to engage in the variety
of other occupations to which lawyers are drawn. He indicated that intellectual foundations are essential in order to provide the kind of lawyers who
can respond to all areas of the law.
The panel responded to questions which included admission rates, the
effect of tuition on the application pool, areas of weakness that might need
improving, to what extent the Law School perceives an excess of lawyers,
policy of appointments of visiting personnel and new personnel, especially
with respect to diversifying the faculty, the dual career family, possible
cause of number of openings on the faculty, tuition rates in comparison to
other peer institutions, the financial aid program, the diversity of scholarship
of the faculty of the Law School and the international law program.
President Shapiro thanked Dean Sandalow and his colleagues for their
time and an interesting discussion.
A five minute recess followed.
Energy Cost Avoidance Project
President Shapiro indicated that the issue of energy costs and savings
from different points of view have been discussed over a number of years
with respect to the University. A report on the energy cost avoidance project
will be the next item on the agenda.
Vice President Brinkerhoff provided a bridging into a more lengthy
discussion which would be provided by Associate Vice President Robert
161




162


JANUARY MEETING, 1985


Holbrook. He addressed three slides which showed that the total energy use
at the University has been reduced by 18.1% since the base period, 1972-73.
Part of that reduction has been accomplished by adding certain buildings to
the central environmental control facilities which controls the fans and the
energy use within the facilities. The central control system can monitor the
level of activity normally scheduled within a particular building. There has
been a 41.9% savings in energy for those facilities that have been put on the
the central system. Currently there are 27 buildings on the system and there
soon will be an addition of 33 facilities. Vice President Brinkerhoff pointed
out that about everything has been done that is possible to do from a
centralized standpoint. In terms of the cost avoidance that has occurred since
the base period 1972-73, the cost of actual energy used has declined from
$3.4 million to $3 million. If the University's energy unit cost had remained
the same, the University would be using approximately $400,000 less for
energy cost even though a considerable amount of square feet had been
added. The University was approaching the maximum that could be achieved
without either a behavioral change or an improvement in communications
between the users of the buildings and the utility department. In order to
achieve another increment in savings, perhaps as much as 30% on cost
avoidance, a process has been developed which Associate Vice President
Holbrook will describe.
Regent Baker asked if energy costs included the University's own generation of energy, or the cost of the gas which the University must purchase.
Exactly what is meant by the cost?
Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that $26.2 million is the cost of
running the utility department which buys natural gas and some electricity,
produces its own electricity, and has some labor costs. It is a composite total
utility cost and is the portion that is charged to the general fund.
Associate Vice President Holbrook commented that the central environmental control, among other things, has produced substantial improvement
in the level of conservation and reduction in energy use, but the limitations
of central control are also severe. For example, facilities like the Fleming
Administration building where people arrive at a fixed time in the morning
and leave at a fixed time at night can be controlled. Classroom buildings and
laboratories are much more difficult to control because there is a greater
degree of flexibility in their use. Central environmental control can adjust to
that merely by receiving a telephone call conveying the necessary information. The plant department does not have direct interaction with the academic and research users of the space, and, at the present time, a system has
not been developed that would provide that information on a regular basis.
Also, the central system cannot control the intensity of use by the individual
user. Although there are tremendous gains using the central environmental
control, it is limited by the fact that it is a gross overall structure and it does
not respond to the behavioral changes, and it does not induce any behavioral
changes on the part of the users.
A committee, the energy cost avoidance project, was formed to study
these issues. The report of the committee indicated that further conservation
at the University was a management problem, not a technical problem. Most
of the recommendations in the report were focused on management changes,




JANUARY MEETING, 1985


163


which included local control-control decisions within individual buildings
or units. The report recommended that the Office of Academic Affairs be
directly involved in the energy conservation program since the general fund
and the academic units were within Vice President Fry's domain. The
financial incentives were going to be critical because the savings incurred
would flow, at least in part, to those who change their behavior. In addition,
the buildings should have a dedicated manager on site who would have
technical and communication skills in order to explain to faculty and staff
how conservation activities can occur. The manager would be responsible to
the dean of that particular unit.
The recommendations were considered by the executive officers and
then distributed widely among the faculty. They were implemented virtually
in their entirety. Associate Vice President Holbrook said that he was appointed as energy coordinator within Vice President Frye's office, and
policy committees were established which are responsible for energy conservation in the academic and nonacademic units. There is a technical support
group of University architects and engineers. An energy incentive plan has
been developed which essentially creates a foundation on the basis of the
historical energy use in the building against which future energy use can be
compared and savings calculated based on the current cost of utilities. The
intention is to share the savings accrued that year with the unit on a
fifty-fifty basis. The cost of investment will be shared as well. It is expected
that the energy savings will be sufficient to pay for any investment incurred.
Three buildings will be put on this plan in the near future: the Physics
Astronomy Building (the Dennison Bldg.), the Modem Languages Building,
and the Power Center. One building manager will be hired to monitor the
scheduling of the use of these buildings, and to make sure that the central
environmental control personnel are aware of their precise needs, on a day
to day basis.
Associate Vice President Holbrook indicated that the committee on the
energy cost avoidance project was influenced by the experiences in the Art
and Architecture Building on North Campus where a pilot project had been
underway for several years. This project reduced energy use in that building
significantly in the mid-70s, and much of those savings came from management and very low cost investments. The results of the pilot project proved
so successful that the committee used the information when the projections
for the entire campus were made.
Following discussion on some of the aspects of the program, Professor
Kurt Brandle, Professor of Architecture, showed some slides which indicated the changes that had been taken in the Art and Architecture Building
that led to significant energy cost savings in that building. Vice President
Brinkerhoff then responded to questions.
WUOM/WVGR-FM, WFUM-TV Audit Reports
President Shapiro indicated that the audited financial reports from WUOM/
WVGR-FM and WFUM-TV would be discussed at this time.
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the reports and indicated that the
audited financial statements for both the radio and television stations are
prepared in conjunction with the financial report to be submitted to the




164


JANUARY MEETING, 1985


Corporation for Public Broadcasting which provides some federal funds for
both the radio and television stations. Even though action is requested for
the audited financial reports in order to submit them to CPB, the operating
statements and balance sheets for Michigan Media, WFUM-TV, and WUOM/
WVGR are the key information documents from a management standpoint
because they bring together the financial activities and status of these three
units. The three units are operating satisfactorily in light of their length of
service, particularly WFUM-TV which is still relatively active in terms of
equipment acquisition. Vice President Brinkerhoff said that he was interested in the operating fund balances within these units which would provide
protection in the event there was a reduction of income in these units. This
would allow enough time for the units to make adjustments in activities or
the staff involved in the activities under consideration.
The discussion that followed included the fundraising expenses as compared to contributions listed in the financial statement for WFUM-TV,
whether a decision had been made to utilize the license for WFUM-FM, and
whether an application for a radio station license in the Upper Peninsula has
been considered.
Regent Roach moved to approve the audited financial reports for WUOM/
WVGR-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1984. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The operating statements and balance sheets for Michigan Media,
WFUM-TV, and WUOM/WVGR were received.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of November 15 and 16, 1984 were distributed to the Regents and deferred.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his monthly reports on investment
transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, Replacement Hospital Project, and the report on non-competitive purchases over
$1,000 from single sources, October 1 through December 31, 1984.
Interim Vice President Sussman filed his monthly report on grants and
contracts for research.
With respect to the plant extension report, Vice President Brinkerhoff
mentioned an error on the last page with respect to the Rackham Building in
Detroit. The rebuilding of the marble veneer is on the exterior not the
interior as stated.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Robert Ball, alumnus, investigation of uses made of suggestion at the University; Lois Gage, Professor of Nursing, on the accomplishments and goals of women faculty.
The meeting was recessed.




JANUARY MEETING, 1985


165


Friday, January 18, 1985
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President
Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro convened the meeting and indicated that Dr. George
Zuidema would like to speak to the appointment of the new dean of the
Medical School.
Medical School Dean Appointed
Dr. Zuidema noted that he was delighted to be able to bring this
appointment to the Regents. He conveyed his expectation that Dr. Johnson
would be an outstanding Dean of the Medical School, and that his arrival on
campus is eagerly awaited.
Regent Power then moved to approve the appointment of Joseph E.
Johnson, III, M.D. as Dean of the Medical School and Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
North Campus Master Plan
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented that that with the increasing
intensity of use of the North Campus resulting from the move of the College
of Engineering to that location, it has become apparent that a more comprehensive review of the planning of the campus was needed. Concurrent with
the planning effort on the North Campus, a joint effort on the part of the city
and the University with the Veterans Administration was undertaken, since
the Ann Arbor facility was selected for substantial expansion opportunities.
One of the aspects of that expansion is the need for some additional land to
provide for buildings contemplated by the Veterans Administration which
would be consistent with the the University's plans for the North Campus
and which would provide a roadway network that would more effectively
meet the needs of the University, the city and the Veterans Administration.
Two parking structures are to be included in the Veterans Administration
project which would require location in an environment compatible with the
North Campus. It does call for a provision of land by the University and a
provision of money by the Veterans Administration, all of which is still in
negotiation. He then introduced Mr. Frederick Mayer, University Planner.
Mr. Mayer indicated that the North Campus was an area of major need
in campus planning which had not been included in the comprehensive
update that had been presented to the Regents in 1983. The consulting firm
of Johnson, Johnson & Roy was retained at that time to provide a study of
the area, and an advisory committee was established to work with the
consultant in the preparation of the study. The committee represented all of
the major academic units on the North Campus as well as the research units,
student service units and other interested groups such as the Ford Presidential Library. The system that was applied by the consultant was to go
through the analytical phases and to develop alternative concepts for how the




166


JANUARY MEETING, 1985


campus might develop. One final concept eventually emerged as the plan
that would be recommended for the North Campus. The plan was then
viewed by a number of groups at North Campus including the faculty of the
College of Engineering and an open meeting in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning which was attended by faculty and students. There was
a broadly positive response at all of the meetings to the concept of the plan
which enabled the planners to move forward with a reasonable assurance
that the plan had popular support from the North Campus community.
Carl Johnson, of Johnson, Johnson and Roy, then described the plan for
the North Campus which he presented on slides. He spoke of the awkwardness of the Glacier Way/Fuller Road corridor, and the unattractive entrance
to the North Campus from the southeast. It was suggested that a plan be
negotiated between Veterans Hospital and the University for some kind of a
land trade that would ease the parking problem for the Veterans Hospital,
and would enable the University to gain a green space which would make
the entrance to the North Campus more pleasant and accessible. Mr. Johnson mentioned a few other minor road changes that would make for a better
flow of traffic. Potential parking could accommodate 4800 cars by constructing three parking decks that would accommodate 3050 cars. The
proposed parking structures would be on existing parking lots or on the
perimeter where they can be linked via pedestrian walkways to future
buildings.
There was discussion concerning a solution to the access problem of the
triangle at Fuller Road, Glacier Way, and Oakway Street which surrounds
the Veterans Hospital. Consideration was given to a separate network for
pedestrian traffic as against bicycle traffic.
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed further the roadway plans and the
land exchange concept which will be negotiated within the next few months.
President Shapiro indicated that further comments from the Regents
would be appreciated over the next few months about the plan itself, not
only this specific aspect of the road construction and the arrangement of a
possible trade of land.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
The following gifts were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Allied Foundation, 'Morristown, New Jersey; for Employee Matching Gifts fund... $6,443
American Cancer Society, New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds............... 51,460
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York; for research and other
support in the Medical School fund.....................................  15,130
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for Cardiology research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  6,092
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  60,909
Anonymous Donor; for gifts pending designation fund......................... 100,000
Apollo Computer, Inc., Chelmsford, Massachusetts; for research in the College of
Engineering  fund....................................................  20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund....  12,500
Abby K. Babcock Trust; for research and endowment in the Medical School fund.. 88,682




JANUARY MEETING, 1985


167


Dwight F. Benton Estate, Scottsdale, Arizona; for scholarships in the School of
Business Administration, and in the College of Engineering funds............ 206,743
Jesse Besser Fund, Inc., Alpena; for construction of the Eye Center fund.........  8,000
Bristol-Myers Fund, Inc., New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund..............................................................   6,050
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills; for unrestricted support of the Michigan
League fund........................................................  7,500
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit; for computer information systems research and faculty support in the School of Business Administration fund..................  7,475
Chevron Chemical Company, Belle Chasse, Louisiana; for fellowships in the College
of Engineering fund..................................................  15,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California; for chemical engineering fellowships in
the College of Engineering fund........................................ 19,200
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois; for physiological research in the Medical School fund...................................................  12,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School fund.....................................................  15,232
Ciba-Geigy Corporation, Summit, New Jersey; for pharmacological research in the
Medical School fund.................................................  12,500
Carl P. Clare, Park Ridge, Illinois; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  5,000
Avern L. and Joyce Cohn Fund of the Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit; for
endowment in  the  Law  School fund.....................................  5,000
Dana Corporation Foundation, Toledo, Ohio; for Employee Matching Gifts fund...  5,000
The Detroit News, Detroit; for the Journalists in Residence Program in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts fund....................................  10,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Canton, Ohio; for the George H. Deuble Loan Fund in
the School of Business Administration, and fellowship in the Law School fund. 10,000
Charles B. and Charles R. DeVlieg Foundation, Royal Oak; for the Devlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering fund.................... 30,000
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland; for chemical research in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds....  5,028
Eastman Kodak Charitable Trust, Rochester, New York; for the Fred J. Hodges
Memorial in  the Medical School fund...................................  5,000
Fairlane Inn, Inc., Dearborn; for the Samuel and Harold M. Shapero student loan fund
in  the  Law  School fund.................................................  5,000
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor; for construction of the Replacement Hospital and
the School of Music Building Addition funds.............................  7,000
FMC Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for the FMC Foundation Fund in the
College  of Pharmacy  fund.............................................  5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the Associates Program in the School of
Business  Administration  fund..........................................  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. George Forsyth, Jr., Ann Arbor International Business Machines
Corporation common stock; for the Tappan Hall Library fund................  5,013
Fruehauf Corporation, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  10,000
Gerber Products Company, Fremont; for pediatric research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  5,000
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company Fund, Akron, Ohio; for program support in the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  5,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, El Segundo, California; for the Solid State Industrial
Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching
G ifts  funds.........................................................  5,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; for support of
computer sciences in the College of Engineering fund...................... 15,246
Instruments S.A., Inc., Metuchen, New Jersey; for program support in the College of
Engineering  fund....................................................  7,500
Dr. and Mrs. Donald J. Jaffar, Southfield; for scholarships in the Department of
Athletics, and for construction of the Replacement Hospital funds............  5,025




168                      JANUARY MEETING, 1985
Frank W. Kerr Company, Northville; for the William Davidson Endowed Visiting
Professorship in the School of Business Administration fund................. 100,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial,
The University of Michigan Hospitals funds..............................  7,416
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey; Schering-Plough Corporation, common
stock; for endowed support of the Law School fund........................  10,221
Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration Campaign fund.........................................  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
fund...............................................................  5,694
Monsanto Fund, Saint Louis, Missouri; for the Monsanto Fellowship in the College of
Engineering, and the Monsanto Discretionary Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts funds............................................  8,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
ergonomics research in the College of Engineering, and for program support in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies funds..................  35,750
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, New York, New York; for
program support in the College of Engineering fund........................  15,280
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor; for research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  10,444
National Steel Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the National Steel Corporation Fellowship in tbe College of Engineering fund........................  14,000
Don C. Nouse, Perrysburg, Ohio; for construction of the Replacement Hospital
fund...............................................................   5,000
David S. Oleshansky, Washington, D.C.; for the Barbara A. Oleshansky Memorial
Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund......  9,000
Beahl T. Perrine, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Raytheon Corporation, common stock; for
unrestricted support of the Law School fund..............................  9,984
Eugene B. Power Trust; for the School of Music Building Addition fund.........  5,000
Leonard and Ruth Rand, Moreland Hills, Ohio; for the University of Michigan Club
of Cleveland General scholarship fund...................................  5,000
Research Corporation, New York, New York; for chemical research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts fund....................................  15,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York; for population studies support in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........................  10,000
Marguerite Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona; for support of education and research in the
Medical School fund, in memory of Lyle C. Roll..........................  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest J. Rua, Jr., Washington, D.C.; for the Russell Lee Rua
Scholarship in the Law School fund..................................... 25,000
Ryder/P-I-E Nationwide, Jacksonville, Florida; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign fund...............................  5,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York; for population studies support in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........................  5,180
Helen Lena Schmutz, Ann Arbor; for unrestricted support of the Michigan League,
and of The University of Michigan funds................................  5,000
Louis R. Schwartz, Venice, Florida; for construction of the Eye Center fund......  5,000
Searle Family Trust, Chicago, Illinois; for unrestricted support of The University of
Michigan fund......................................................  85,000
Searle Research and Development, Skokie, Illinois; for gastroenterological research in
the Medical School fund..............................................  24,735
Thomas Erler Seidman Foundation, Grand Rapids; for unrestricted support of the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund.........................  5,000
Mabel E. Sherk, Bloomfield Hills; for construction of the Eye Center, and for
unrestricted support of the Michigan League funds.........................  5,100
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I.
Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School fund.............................  6,437
Mr. and Mrs. Edward V. Stewart, Jr., Huntington Beach, California; Atlantic Richfield Company, common stock; for naval architecture support in the College of
Engineering fund....................................................    5,181




JANUARY MEETING, 1985


169


Professor and Mrs. Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor; IBM Corporation, common stock;
for support of the Victor L. Streeter Computation Laboratory in the College of
Engineering  fund...................................................  10,085
Robert A. Sullivan Estate; for the Robert A. Sullivan Professorship of Law fund... 75,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation, of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts; for research in the Medical School
fund..................................................      6,127
A. Alfred Taubman, Troy; for the A. Alfred Taubman Medical Library fund...... 100,000
Union Carbide Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; for fellowships and grants in the
College of Engineering fund..........................................  23,000
The University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucille B. Conger Group;
for alumnae scholarships through the Alumni Association fund...............  5,724
The University of Michigan Alumni Club of the Grand Traverse Area, Traverse City;
for club scholarships through the Alumni Association fund..................  9,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration Campaign, pharmacological research in the Medical School, and
for Employee  Matching  Gifts fund......................................  80,905
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for the Warner-Lambert
Lecture in the Medical School fund..................................... 22,000
Tadataka Yamada, Ann Arbor; for gastroenterological research in the Medical School
fund..................................................      7,250
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Harris Semiconducter, Inc., Melbourne, Florida 5,306 silicon wafers; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Kate J. Longmaid, Media, Pennsylvania, Two Richard Wilt paintings, entitled: "Adam"
and "Eve"; for the School of Art
Brownson Murray, West Bloomfield Office furniture for The University of MichiganDearborn, Student Activities Building
James G. Wendell, Ann Arbor A complete set of Mathematical Reviews (1940-1979);
for the Department of Statistics Library
Vice President Cosovich reviewed his report on development and university relations.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
William W. Bishop, Jr., Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the Law School for
the Winter term, 1985, January 1, 1985
Joseph E. Johnson, III, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Dean
of the Medical School, May 1, 1985
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January I, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Carl Cohen, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, in the Residential College, also appointed
Professor of Philosophy in the Medical School, without tenure
William Martel, Professor and Chairman of Radiology, appointed the Fred Jenner Hodges
Professor of Radiology
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, reappointed Interim Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn




170


JANUARY MEETING, 1985


The following committee appointments were approved.
University Press Executive Committee
Professor Richard S. Hatten, for the winter term, 1985, vice Professor Richard Crawford,
currently on leave
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection Committee
Margaret Ayers Host, for the current academic year of 1984-1985, January 17, 1985
Regent Power noted that the appointment of Mrs. Host to the Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection Committee was very fitting considering both the known and unknown work she had done for this University.
Hodges Professorship of Radiology
The Regents approved the establishment of the Fred Jenner Hodges
Professorship of Radiology.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Anastasios C. Papanastasiou, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
William W. Schultz, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Mandyam M. Srinivasan, M.B.A., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Instructor
Gary Davidoff, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Peter Nightingale, F.F.A.R.C.S., Anesthesiology
Paul M. Spargo, M.B.B.S., Anesthesiology
Frederick R. White, M.D., Anesthesiology, December 1, 1984
Lecturer
Richard L. Hall, M.A., Political Science
Visiting Professor
Paolo de Bartolomeis, Licenza e Laurea Matematica, Mathematics
Visiting Associate Professor
Elizabeth G. Bradshaw, F.F.A.R.C.S., Anesthesiology, January 15, 1985
Annemarie W. Carr, Ph.D., History of Art
Maurine W. Greenwald, Ph.D., History
Lowell L. Hargens, Ph.D., Sociology
Glen S. Jeansonne, Ph.D., History
Barry M. Loewer, Ph.D., Philosophy
Adjunct Professor
Wesley D. Jacobs, Music
Lucian Rosu, Ph.D., Romance Languages and Literatures
Adjunct Associate Professor
Jerome Johnston, Ph.D., Education
Dennis F. McIntyre, M.F.A., English Language and Literature
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Mary M. Conklin, M.S., Nursing, September 1, 1984
Nancy N. Harris, A.M., Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations
Adjunct Lecturer
Frances Board, M.S.N, Nursing, UM-Flint, October 1, 1984
Salome Gebre-Egziabher, M.A., Women's Studies Program




JANUARY MEETING, 1985


171


John M. Kuder, Ph.D., Medical Care Organization, October 1, 1984
Tessie P. Liu, B.A., Residential College
Cyril Moscow, J.D., Law
Brownson Murray, L.L.B., Communication
Daniel E. O'Leary, Ph.D., History of Art
Steven D. Pepe, J.D., Law
Clinical Instructor
Lisa E. D'Aunno, J.D., Law, December 1, 1984
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Judith A. Bernhardt, from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing
Agnes M. Buback, from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing
Linda R. Cronenwett, from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Nursing
Owen Z. Perlman, from Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, November 3, 1984
Judith Weedman, Lecturer of Library Science, also appointed Adjunct Lecturer of Education,
January 1, 1985
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective December 31, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Katerina Dorovini-Zis, Pathology, January 14, 1985
Elizabeth L. Schmitt, Radiology, November 13, 1984
Instructor
David John, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1984
Clinical Professor
Hans P. Witzky, Dentistry
Clinical Associate Professor
Thomas R. Gebeck, Dentistry
Edward G. Kane, Dentistry
Philip C. Warren, Dentistry
Clinical Assistant Professor
Howard D. Baru, Dentistry
Roger L. Bookwalter, Dentistry
Charles E. Duncan, Dentistry, November 30, 1984
Leaves of Absence
Seven off campus assignments, thirty-two sabbatical leaves, nineteen
leaves of absence without salary, one scholarly activity leave, three extended sick leaves and fourteen retirement furloughs were reported to the
Regents.
VI. RETIRE              MENT MEMOIRS
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of two faculty members.
The following retirement memoirs were adopted:
LOUIS F. KAZDA, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, retired from active
faculty status as of December 31, 1984. Professor Kazda has been a distinguished and highly
respected faculty member in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science of
the College of Engineering.
Professor Kazda received the B.S. and the M.S. degrees in electrical engineering in 1940
and 1943, respectively, from the University of Cincinnati, and the Ph.D. degree in 1962 from




172


JANUARY MEETING, 1985


Syracuse University. He joined The University of Michigan as an instructor in the then
Department of Electrical Engineering in 1946. He successively served as assistant professor,
associate professor and professor. He also served as director of the Power Systems and Energy
Conversion Laboratory in the department for many years.
During his years of service to the University, twenty-two students received their Ph.D.s
under Professor Kazda's supervision. He published sixteen journal articles in major technical
journals and attended numerous technical conferences.
Professor Kazda's interest in the quality of education has been demonstrated by his service
on the department's graduate committee for eight years, the curriculum committee for three
years, and as a graduate program advisor for three years.
Professor Kazda received the 1981 Distinguished Alumnus Award from the University of
Cincinnati, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Centennial Medal and
Certificate in 1984 in recognition of his exceptional service to the profession, and the IEEE
Distinguished Member Award in 1984.
Professor Kazda has been very active in the IEEE and its predecessor, the American
Institute of Electrical Engineers. He is a fellow of the IEEE, the highest honor the Society
bestows on its members. He received the Outstanding Technical Paper Award of the AIEE in
1959.
In 1965, Professor Kazda served as chairman of the IEEE Group on Automatic Control. He
was general chairman of the 1968 Joint Automatic Control Conference, co-chairman of the
1972 Workshop on New Directions in System Science and Engineering, sponsored by The
University of Michigan, the University of California-Berkeley and the National Science Foundation, and co-chairman of the 1976 NSF-National Center for Systems Analysis Workshop.
In his 38 years at The University of Michigan, Professor Kazda has had a distinguished
career in research and teaching. He has made many significant contributions to the department
and the profession, and is highly regarded by his colleagues and students. His service to the
University will be greatly missed.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
WILLIAM C. LESLIE, Professor of Materials Engineering in the College of Engineering,
retired from active faculty status as of December 31, 1984, after an outstanding 35-year career,
first as an industrial research engineer and, subsequently, since 1973, as teacher and researcher
at The University of Michigan.
Professor Leslie received his B.S., M.Sc., and Ph.D. degrees, all in metallurgical engineering, from Ohio State University in 1947, 1948, and 1949 respectively.
Professor Leslie started his career as a metallurgist at the United States Steel research
laboratory in Kearny, New Jersey, during the period of 1949 to 1953. During 1952-53, he was
also an adjunct professor at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He became associate director of
research and development at Thompson Products, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio, in 1953. He returned
to the U.S. Steel Corporation research laboratory, specifically the E.C. Bain Laboratory for
Fundamental Research, in 1953, and remained there until 1973.
During this time, he spent a sabbatical year as Battelle Visiting Professor of Metallurgy at
Ohio State University in 1963-64, and served as manager of physical metallurgy at the Bain
laboratory from 1963 through 1973.
Professor Leslie came to The University of Michigan in January, 1973, and has been a
professor of materials and metallurgical engineering since that time. He has been an outstanding
contributor throughout his career in the area of ferrous physical metallurgy. He has published
nearly 100 research papers and has authored the text, The Physical Metallurgy of Steels,
published in 1981.
Professor Leslie is a member or fellow of several professional societies, and has given seven
distinguished honorary lectures throughout his career. His awards include twice being named as
an outstanding alumnus by Ohio State University. He has also served as an engineering
consultant to nearly two dozen major industrial firms, mostly in the state of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering.
VII. MEMORIALS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.




JANUARY MEETING, 1985


173


VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: Virginia Lee Boyd
Evangelos Souliotis
Bachelor of Science, August 17, 1984
add: Garth Stanley Barbour
Bachelor in General Studies, August 17, 1984
add: James Richard Kubik
Debra Michiko Yahagi
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Andrea Joy Greenberg
Residential College Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: Rachel Leigh Yosha
University of Michigan - Dearborn
School of Management Bachelor of Science in Administration, August 31, 1979
add: Julianne Margaret Patterson, with distinction
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Mortgage Loan Program
Vice President Brinkerhoff briefly reviewed the information received
regarding the University's mortgage loan program.
Regent Power inquired about a program for less than full-time personnel.
Mr. Herbert responded that no mortgage loans are made to less than
full-time staff, but they are given guidance in terms of lending programs that
are available in the community and assistance in negotiations for their
acquisition of property.
Renovations
Regent Baker moved to approve the renovations of the original building
of the School of Business Administration. Regent Smith seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Vamer moved to approve the renovation of the 4th and 5th level
restrooms of the Children's Psychiatric Hospital. Regent Power seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
UM-Flint-COB Theatre Lighting
Regent Baker moved to authorize proceeding with the Classroom Office
Building Theatre Lighting project at UM-Flint. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Academic Calendars-1986-87, All Three Campuses
Regent Power moved to approve the academic calendars for 1986-87 and
1987-88 for all three campuses. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it
was adopted.




174


JANUARY MEETING, 1985


Kalmbach Management Center
Regent Baker moved to authorize the sale of the Kalmbach Management
Center at the highest price, but at a minimum of the appraised value. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
CAUSE Membership
Regent Power moved to approve an annual institutional membership in
CAUSE, The Professional Association for Development, Use, and Management of Information Systems in Higher Education. Regent Roach seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
December totaled $1,647.74.
The Regents adjourned to meet on February 14 and 15, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 14, 1985
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Vamer and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Cosovich, Interim Vice President Sussman,
and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Vice President
Johnson was absent and Associate Vice President Easthope attended the
meeting for him.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and announced that the
first item to be considered would be the lease of unused instructional
television fixed service channel time.
Instructional Television Fixed Service Channel Time
Vice President Brinkerhoff introduced Edward Lady, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, who briefly described the nature of the negotiations,
the rewards, and possible risks accruing to the University if the execution of
the lease document were to be authorized. He indicated that in 1983 the
Federal Communications Commission authorized the holders of ITFS television channels to lease unused air time for the express purpose of providing a
source of revenue to help support educational television. Professor Lady felt
that the lease was a fair and certainly hard-bargained agreement. The risks
Professor Lady mentioned were new technical developments, and an unsuccessful commercial venture by the Detroit Wireless Cable Corporation. The
University would participate fully in the commercial success of this operation through a royalty arrangement.
The questions that followed included: the lessor's vacation periods;
possible liability on the part of the University for the personnel of the
Detroit Wireless Corporation; the length of the lease; and the taxability of
lease revenues.
Regent Brown then moved to authorize the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer to execute a lease of unused instructional television fixed
service channel time. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted
with Regent Baker abstaining.
Twelve-Month Review of Investment Programs
Vice President Brinkerhoff then remarked that Don Lindow and Mel
Roszak, of the National Bank of Detroit, and Norman Herbert, the University's Investment Officer would address the twelve month review of investment programs.
Mr. Herbert commented that discussion would include the performance
and future plans of the endowment portfolios which consist of the Consolidated Endowment Pool, the Rackham Endowment Pool, and the Funds
Functioning as Endowments. Combined, these pools represent approxi



176


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


mately 90% of the overall University endowments for the year 1984. In
addition to these primary pools, there are a number of life income and
annuity trusts and the Donor Pooled Income Fund. Mr. Herbert said that the
investment objective of the endowment funds was to maximize total return
which should equal, as a minimum, the rate of inflation plus the spending
rate.
Mr. Herbert reviewed the total return percentages for 1984 for the
various portions of the portfolios, and indicated that the figures are encouraging and begin to satisfy the objective.
Mr. Lindow summarized some of the significant changes what occurred
in the major endowment funds in 1984. He indicated that the economy
experienced good growth during the year, inflation remained under control,
and the absolute returns and real returns from the bond and stock markets
were very good. As predicted, stocks moved in a lateral pattern during 1984
following two very strong years of returns. NBD took advantage of the
opportunities afforded them by investing a large portion of major gifts
received in cash equivalents, and reduced the equity ratio. The increase in
gross income was significant; however, it is necesssary to adjust the income
increase for new gifts. It was a mixed year with respect to stock market
results, and a good year with respect to dividend increases. The cash
equivalent position was significantly higher, the diversification of the three
endowment funds, and the opportunity type stocks which allows the investors to take advantage of a different sector of the common stock market.
Mr. Roszak indicated that most of the return last year came from
income, and bonds did better than stocks for 1984. Since inflation has
slackened considerably over the past three years, returns from financial
assets have improved considerably. There has been a sharp slowdown in the
rate of wage gains, unit labor costs are under good control, and oil prices
most likely will decline substantially in a year or two, All of these conditions are promising for the inflation outlook. Interest rates appear rather high
compared to inflation, but any movement will be irregular and there could
be a modest rise this year as the economy expands. The factors that tend to
limit the stock market rise are high interest rates, concern about the deficit,
and the strength of the dollar. Nevertheless, over the long term, NBD is
rather optimistic.
Mr. Herbert described some of the changes that have occurred in the
portfolios in order to improve performance results, for example, the real
estate program, opportunity fund stocks, the use of options, venture capital,
and security lending. He reviewed also the activity in the temporary investments pool.
Questions were responded to with respect to the effect of divestiture on
the investment program, combining the endowment funds and the funds
functioning as endowments as one investment pool, the diversification of
management, the lack of preferred stock in the portfolio, and the progress of
the buy write program.
Regent Power inquired about the administration's intention to bring a
proposal to the Regents for further diversification of the management of the
portfolio. Mr. Herbert responded that a proposal would be brought to the
Regents within the next several months.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


177


Residence Hall and Family Housing Rate Increases
Mr. Robert Hughes, Director of Housing, reviewed the recommendation
for single student and family housing rates. The student-staff rate study
committees recommended that the residence halls be increased 4.7% and the
family housing apartment be increased 4.9%. These recommendations recognize all anticipated inflationary factors, the maintenance of the present
programs and services, provision for increased funding for general housing
reserves, and allowance for a slight increase for the voluntary school service
payment in family housing.
Mr. Hughes said that during the last seven years the housing division has
been working on four overriding goals that were identified in 1978 as being
necessary if the University were to maintain a viable living experience in
University owned and operated housing for students through the turn of the
century. He listed the following goals and reviewed the activity that has
taken place in each instance: to modernize and upgrade the physical condition of the buildings, to improve the quality of services, to broaden the
financial base, and to strengthen the residence education program. Mr.
Hughes then showed slides comparing rates at the University over a period
of years, the rate increases between '79-'80 and '84-'85 for the various Big
Ten instituitions, and the ISR study with respect to studying in the residence
halls.
Following further discussion, Regent Power moved to approve a rate
increase of 4.7% for residence halls and 4.9% for the family housing
apartments, as recommended. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
A five minute recess followed.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meetings of November 15 and 16, 1984; December
17, 1984 and January 17 and 18, 1985 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations and the replacement hospital program.
Interim Vice President Sussman filed his monthly report on grants and
contracts for research.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice President Cosovich reported gifts from the following sources. They
were accepted with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Edward L. Adams, Jr., & Associates, Ann Arbor; for the Edward L. Adams Romance
Languages and Literature Endowment in the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, and for support of the Clements Library and the Museum of Art funds.... $5,200
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds............... 51,460




178


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for research in the Medical School
fund..............................................................   7,288
Anonymous Donor; for chemotherapy research in the Medical School fund....... 500,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund....  7,500
Atlas Door Corporation, Edison, New Jersey; for band uniforms in the School of
Music fund.........................................................  5,000
Willard J. Banyon, Jr., Saint Joseph; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
and for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering and the Law School
funds..............................................................  8,750
Bixby Foundation, Detroit; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and Replacement Hospital Campaigns, and for unrestricted support of the School of Music funds....  11,500
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit; for gifts pending designation in the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund.........................  10,000
Albert Bradley Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund.  5,000
George J. Brahos, Worthington, Ohio; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics
fund..............................................................  15,000
Bundy Foundation, Detroit; for the Biological Station Lecture Hall, College of Literature, Science and the Arts; and for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration Campaign funds........................................  6,250
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; for the Burroughs Wellcome Fund for research in the Medical School fund.............. 12,500
Mary Lou Butcher, Detroit; for the Mary Lou Butcher Equal Opportunity Award in
Journalism, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund................  9,000
Mildred Butler, Sherwood, Oregon Litton Industries common stock; for the President's
fund..............................................................  10,320
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit Ethyl Corporation common stock; for the
Ralph  G. Conger Scholarship  fund......................................  6,575
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for the Consumers Power Company Fund in the
School of Public  Health  fund..........................................  35,000
Cummins Engine Foundation, Columbus, Indiana; for unrestricted support of the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund......................... 100,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Rockville, Maryland; for research in the Medical School
and  in  the  College  of Pharmacy  funds...................................  10,180
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Fort Lauderdale, Florida; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign fund...............................  5,000
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland; for the Wiley T. Buchanan
Research Fund in the Medical School, and for the Dow Building, College of
Engineering  funds...................................................  550,023
Durakon, Inc., Grand Blanc; for support of the Planning Research Laboratory in the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning fund..........................  7,500
Richard Earhart, Mount Dora, Florida; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Campaign, and for student aid in the College of Engineering  funds......................................................  100,000
John R. Edman, Bloomfield Hills; for gifts pending designation in the School of
Business Administration  Campaign  fund.................................  10,000
Dr. and Mrs. Paul H. Ernest, Jackson; for the Eye Center Campaign fund........  5,000
Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Ernst & Whinney Professorship in Accounting, School of Business Administration fund.................  5,000
Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor; for unrestricted support of the Campaign and for
student loans in the School of Business Administration fund.................  6,000
Evening News Association, Detroit; for the School of Music, Bowl Games fund...  7,500
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  3 1,245
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Campaign, for the Clements Library-Ford Publications
Fund, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds............................ 153,511
Foremost Life Insurance Company, Grand Rapids; for unrestricted support of the
School of Business Administration Campaign fund......................... 25,000




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


179


Mr. and Mrs. Sumner J. Foster, Lexington, Massachusetts Bausch & Lomb, Inc.
common stock; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan, Campaign
For Michigan fund...................................................  26,063
Charles H. Gessner, New Canaan, Connecticut; for unrestricted support of the Business School fund...................................................  5,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; for gastroenterological research
in the Medical School fund............................................  10,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Campaign fund................................. 200,000
Louis Henry Goldman, Greenwich, Connecticut Freeport McMoran, Inc. common
stock; for the President's fund.........................................  5,138
Herbert W. and Mary B. Hoerauf, Mount Clemens; for the Chemical Sciences
Facilities Campaign, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund......... 10,000
Carol R. Holbrook Estate; for an Excellence Award in the School of Library Science
fund...............................................................  20,000
H. Earl Hoover, Glencoe, Illinois; for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering  fund...........................................................  5,000
Hoover Universal, Inc., Ann Arbor; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign fund.......................................  15,000
Louise A. Hunter Estate; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign fund...........  7,500
Dr. and Mrs. William D. Irwin, Kalamazoo; for unrestricted support of the Medical
School, and of the President's funds....................................  5,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana; for the Louise Jarabak
Memorial in  the  School of Dentistry  fund................................  10,087
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Jones, Bloomfield Hills; the Detroit Edison Company
common stock, for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Law School, Musical Society, and
the President's Fund; and for the School of Music and Tappan Hall Library
C am paigns  funds....................................................  5,121
Mr. and Mrs. Karl G. Kempf, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina; Thomas & Betts
Corporation common stock, for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
and for unrestricted support of tbe President's funds........................  19,275
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Ann Arbor; for support of the Institute of Gerontology
fund...............................................................  10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
for patient care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals fund.........  7,416
W. Eugene Lane Revocable Living Trust, Romeo; for dermatological research in the
M edical School fund.................................................  10,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for behavioral pharmacologic research in
the  M edical School fund..............................................  5,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms; for the M. B. Landers, Sr.
Memorial, in  the Medical School fund..................................  14,857
Donald R. Mandich, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  9,500
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms; for support of Armenian Studies, The University of Michigan-Dearborn fund....................  8,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor; for a real estate professorship in the School of
Business Administration, and for support of the University Musical Society
funds..............................................................  5,0 35
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration  Campaign fund...............................  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Fund  in the Medical School fund.......................................  27,917
Mette Foundation, Detroit; for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  5,000
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of
M ichigan  Hospitals  fund..............................................  25,000
Michigan Eye-Bank Research Center Capital Fund Campaign, Ann Arbor; for construction of the MEB Research Unit in the Eye Center fund................. 100,635




180


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor; for the Norman F. Miller
Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School fund..........................  8,550
Thomas S. Monaghan Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting
Professorship and Architect-in-Residence Funds, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning fund.................................................  30,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo; for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Music Campaigns, and the Clements Library funds.......... 15,000
Dr. and Mrs. Earl V. Moore, La Jolla, California; American General Corporation and
shares of Texas Commerce Bancshares common, and Public Service Electric and
Gas Company, preferred stocks, for the Earl V. Moore Scholarship and for the
School of Music Campaign funds....................................... 11,222
Mr. and Mrs. Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor; for the Tappan Hall Library Campaign,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for support of the University
Musical Society  funds................................................  7,550
Foorman L. Mueller, Paradise Valley, Arizona; Motorola, Inc. common stock, for the
President's fund.....................................................  6,438
Theodore M. and Yvonne H. Nagle, Warson Woods, Missouri; for unrestricted
support of the School of Business Administration, and the President's funds.... 10,000
Dr. and Mrs. William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids; Johnson & Johnson common stock,
for the William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Endowment Fund, School of Dentistry
funds..............................................................  70,750
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor; for research in the
M edical  School  fund.................................................  7,500
Mrs. Peters Oppermann, Grosse Pointe Farms; for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical
Research Institute in the Medical School fund.............................  10,000
Palladium Publishing Company, Saint Joseph; for discretionary support of the College
of  Engineering  fund..................................................  10,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland; for the Elsa U. Pardee Foundation funds, in the
M edical  School  fund.................................................  60,000
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching
G ifts  fund.........................................................  8,050
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene B. Power, Ann Arbor; Xerox Corporation common stock, for
the Power Center for the Performing Arts fund............................ 154,613
George W. and Amy D. Preckshot, Columbia, Missouri; for the Amy D. and George
W. Preckshot Endowment in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
funds..............................................................  10,000
Jean H. Proffitt, Ann Arbor; McDonald's Corporation common stock, for the Roy F.
Proffitt Loan  Fund  in the Law  School fund...............................  15,638
Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign fund  10,000
Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York; for ophthalmological
research  in  the  Medical School fund.....................................  20,000
Robert Bums Richardson, Helena, Montana; for support of actuarial science studies in
the School of Business Administration  fund..............................  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Ryan, Longview, Texas; for the School of Music Campaign
fund...............................................................  5,0 00
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Kenilworth, New Jersey; for Employee Matching
G ifts  fund..........................................................  9,000
Max Robert Schrayer, Chicago, Illinois; Atcor, Inc. common stock, for scholarships
in the Department of Athletics, unrestricted support of the College of Engineering,
and for the Tappan Hall Library Campaign funds..........................  5,906
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California; for scholarships in the Department of
Athletics, and for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration
funds..............................................................  8,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D. Trust, Ann Arbor; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign
fund...............................................................  20,000
Dr. and Mrs. Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio; for discretionary support of the
Department of Ophthalmology in the Medical School fund..................  6,000
Priscilla A. Smith, Atlanta, Georgia; for support of the Matthaei Botanical Gardens,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........................  5,000
William Stanley Smith, Brighton; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign fund....  5,000




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


181


Smithkline, Beckman Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for gastroenterological
research in the Medical School fund.....................................  15,000
Harold K. Sperlich, Orchard Lake; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering funds.......................  5,000
Standard Oil Company, Cleveland, Ohio; for Employee Matching Gifts fund......  7,240
Edward C. ard Hazel L. Stephenson, Grosse Pointe Woods; for the Edward C. and
Hazel L. Stephenson Financial Aid fund.................................  5,500
Ganson P. and Paulett L. Taggart, Winchester, Massachusetts Raytheon Company
common  stock; for the President's fund..................................  10,031
Therma-Tru Corporation, Toledo, Ohio; for Employee Matching Gifts fund........  5,000
Kenneth E. Thompson, Traverse City; for unrestricted support of the Law School
fund...............................................................   10,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust, Flint; for the Thompson Archive Trust fund, The
University of Michigan-Flint fund...................................... 100,000
Joel L. Tonkin, Kansas City, Missouri; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration, and for alumni scholarships in the Law School funds..  5,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Wiley T.
Buchanan Research fund in the Medical School, and for the computer center,
School of Business Administration Campaign funds........................ 150,000
Trustees of The Keeler Fund, Grand Rapids; for support of mathematics, College of
Literature, Science  and  the  Arts fund....................................  7,500
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the TRW Faculty Grants and Fellowships, in
thc  College  of Engineering  fund........................................  8,000
Ann T. Van Rosevelt, Ann Arbor; Coca-Cola Company common stock, for support of
the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science and the Arts
funds..............................................................  7,0 19
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Duarte, California; for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D.
Memorial Endowment in the Medical School fund.........................  5,000
Mae Vidro Estate; for unrestricted, undergraduate student aid fund............... 10,500
Walbridge, Aldinger Company, Livonia; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration  Campaign  fund.................................  5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor; for project
support in the School of Public Health  fund..............................  30,000
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Weidenbach, Ann Arbor; Kuhlman Corporation common stock,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for unrestricted support of
the College of Engineering, the Museum of Art, the School of Music, and the
School of Music Ensemble Theater Program funds.........................  5,175
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills; for the Samuel L. Westerman
Baseball Scholarship Endowment for Post-Graduate Education, Department of
A thletics  funds......................................................  10,000
Westlawn Corporation, East Lansing; for the Roy H. Ziegler Scholarship in the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  7,500
John R. Willcockson, M.D., Yankton, South Dakota; for the Eye Center Campaign
fund..................................................                 6,000
Winkelman Brothers Apparel Foundation, Detroit; for the Isadore and Leon Winkelman Endowed Chair in Retailing, School of Business Administration fund..... 37,500
Isadore and Beryl Winkelman Foundation, West Bloomfield; for the Isadore and Leon
Winkelman Endowed Chair in Retailing, School of Business Administration
fund..................................................                16,250
Roy H. Ziegler, East Lansing; for Roy H. Ziegler Scholarship in the College of
Engineering  fund....................................................  7,500
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
John J. and Florence L. Brownfain, Southfield. Five Josef Albers silkscreens, and
lithographs by Andre Masson and Joan Miro; for the University of MichiganDearborn Library
Dorothy Fairhead, Dearborn, Enameling supplies and equipment; for the School of Art
Thomas G. Kingsley, Atlanta, Georgia. Six autograph letters signed, from various
confederate leaders to Jefferson Davis; for the Clements Library




182


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Robert F. Richardson, Flint. An ornate mantle and fireplace front from the home of
Governor Crapo; for the University of Michigan-Flint Library - Crapo Room
Jack and Aviva Robinson, Bloomfield Hills. An Electra Stamelos watercolor; for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
Edwin S. Smyd, Grosse Pointe Park. A Celestron 8 telescope; for the Department of
Astronomy
William and Electra Stamelos, Hartland. A Pati Bannister oil, and a George Pipenberg
sculpture; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
William A. and Karen Winshall, Southfield. A 17 foot sailboat, and nine mirrors; for
the Alumni Association's Camp Michigania
Wolverine X-Ray Sales & Service Company, Southfield. Twenty-one X-ray cassettes,
for the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology
Vice President Cosovich reviewed his report on Development and
Communication.
University Seminar Program
Vice President Cosovich mentioned the University Seminar Program,
which is designed to bring small groups of people to the campus on a
regularly scheduled basis throughout the year to spend some time visiting
with various faculty members in schools and departments throughout the
University. The seminars are intended to provide an opportunity to portray
the full range of intellectual inquiry and scholarly pursuit that takes place in
the University. The program will bring faculty closer to the Capital Campaign and closer to the external relations effort.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Lynn Conway, M.S.E.E., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, March 1, 1985
Gordon M. Crippen, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, with tenure,
January 1, 1986
Nicholas Delbanco, M.A., Professor of English, with tenure, September 1, 1985
Preston V. Dilts, M.D., Professor and Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, also appointed the Bates Professor of Diseases of Women and Children,
April 1, 1985
Eugene F. Grewe, Professor Emeritus, appointed as Special Assistant to the Chancellor,
UM-Dearborn, February 1, 1985
APPROVAL OF PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE
STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Thomas J. Armstrong, Associate Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, February 1,
1985
Robert L. Kyes, Professor of German, with tenure, appointed Chairman of the Department of
Germanic Languages and Literatures, July 1, 1985
A. F. Kenneth Organski, Professor of Political Science and Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, also appointed the James Orin Murfin
Professor of Political Science, July 1, 1985




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


183


Richard L. Phillips, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, February 1, 1985
Ruth Scodel, from Visiting Associate Professor of Greek and Latin to Associate Professor of
Greek and Latin, Department of Classicial Studies, with tenure, September 1, 1985
The following committee appointments were approved.
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Mr. Thomas K. Byrne, student member, to complete term through April 31, 1985, vice Mr.
Jack Clark, graduated
Division of Physical Education Executive Committee
Stephen J. Galetti, for a two-year term beginning March 1, 1985
John I. Todor, for a two-year term beginning March 1, 1985
Katarina T. Borer, for a one-year term beginning March 1, 1985
Joyce I. Lindeman, for a one-year term beginning March 1, 1985
UM-Dearborn Division of Education Executive Committee
Professor Richard Moyer to complete a term through August 31, 1985, vice Professor Greta
Lipson, retired
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Joseph H. Anthony, for a four-year term, February 15, 1985
Robin B. Owens, for a four-year term, February 15, 1985
Mary Hernandez Simon, for a four-year term, February 15, 1985 Charles R. Weeks, for a
four-year term, February 15, 1985
APPROVAL OF OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Albert B. Schultz, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
also appointed the Vennema Professor of Engineering, February 1, 1985
The Regents approved the extensions of two leaves of absence without
salary for Joseph E. Whitesell, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics without tenure, and Carolyn K. Davis, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, Professor of Nursing with tenure,
and Professor of Education without tenure.
Professorships Established
The Regents approved the establishment of four professorships: the
Robert W. Browne Professorship in Dentistry; the Joseph and Louise Ada
Jarabak Visiting Lectureship in the School of Dentistry; the William K. and
Mary Anne Najjar Professorship in Dentistry; and the Skillman Professorship in Pediatric Ophthalmology.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Bruce R. Maxim, Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom
Mandyam Srinivasan, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering, January 5, 1985
Terry E. Weymouth, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Lecturer
Adam A. Gallucci, M.D., Anesthesiology
Thomas D. Gillespie, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics




184                      FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985
Chandice C. Harris, M.S.N., Family Practice
Amid I. Ismail, Ph.D., Community Health Programs
Harriet K. Linkin, M.S., English Language and Literature
Visiting Professor
Yehuda Blum, Ph.D., Law
Mark Boulby, Ph.D., Germanic Languages and Literatures
Gian V. Caprara, Diploma, Psychology
Trevor C. Hartley, L.L.M., Law
Stephen H. Schulman, L.L.M., Law
Visiting Associate Professor
Miloslav Bernasek, Ph.D., Economics
Peter Stepanek, C.Sc., Mathematics
Visiting Assistant Professor
George A. Athanasopoulos, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
Andrew Forge, Ph.D., Otorhinolaryngology, January 15, 1985
Joachim Hahn, Ph.D., Anthropology and also holds title Visiting Assistant Curator, Museum of
Anthropology, January 9, 1985
Imre Z. Ruzsa, Cand. Science, Mathematics
Jack Wahl, Ph.D., Finance
Neville C. Weber, Ph.D., Statistics
Susan E. Wegner, Ph.D., History of Art
Visiting Instructor
Mathias W. Reimann, Jur. Staatsexamen, Law
Visiting Lecturer
Michael J. McKee, M.A., Economics
Adjunct Professor
James E. Anderson, Ph.D., Chemistry
Richard L. Berger, Ph.D., Physics
George Z. Libertiny, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearbom
Adjunct Associate Professor
Alan M. Baum, Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics
Frank W. Bliss, Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbor
Paul E. Coffman, Jr., Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Molly A. Graber, M.S., Community Health Programs
Linda Y. Lim, Ph.D., Economics
Jacquelyn M. Reinertson, Ph.D., English, UM-Flint
Roger L. Strong, Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Adjunct Instructor
Sue A. Marr, M.P.H., Health Care, UM-Flint
Frank J. Sorise, M.ARCH., Architecture
Adjunct Lecturer
Edwin J. Amonsen, Jr., M.B.A., Marketing
Karen Berglund, M.S., Nursing, September 1, 1984
Ruth E. Bradley, M.A., Program in American Culture
Young S. Chang M.S., Biology, UM-Dearborn
Donald S. Chisholm, M.B.A., Real Estate
Ralph S. Conti, Ph.D., Physics
Marsha A. Daigle, Ph.D., Humanities, UM-Dearbor
Mary J. Disler, M.MUS., Humanities, UM-Dearborn
Reade W. Doran, M.A., English, UM-Flint
David B. Edwards, M.A., Anthropology
Rosalie A. Edwards, M.M., Music
Pamela J. Eklund, B.A., Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
Robert J. Fitrakis, M.A., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Leroy E. Flint, B.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Robert D. Florkowski, Physics, UM-Flint
Christine M. Geary, B.A., Law, History and Communication




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


185


Martin Glaberman, Ph.D., Sociology, UM-Dearborn
Rosalie Gold, M.S.W., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Kevin D. Hunt, M.S., Anthropology
Kathleen M. Kalil, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Rex B. Kline, Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Richard W. Luker, B.A., Communication
Elisa C. Massimino, M.A., Philosophy, UM-Dearborn
Joseph F. McGrath, Ph.D., Mathematics
Norma J. Merry, M.A., Composition, UM-Dearborn
Stephanie A. Minerath, M.S.N., Nursing, September 1, 1984
Maryjo N. Nichols, M.A., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
John M. Olson, B.A., Biological Sciences
Emanuel J. Polioudakis, A.M., Anthropology
Peter A. Pridmore, M.S., Biological Sciences
Marcia L. Robertson, A.M., Anthropology
James E. Rohrer, M.S., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Christine M. Ruby, M.A., History of Art
Angela L. Rumfelt, M.S., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Timothy J. Rydel, M.S., Chemistry, UM-Flint
Brij B. Seth, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearbom
Michael A. Shulman, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearbom
David W. Snyder, A.B., Physics, UM-Flint
Claudio P. Spiguel, Ph.D., Computer and Information Systems
Alex S. Stefanoff, ED.S., Chemistry, UM-Dearborn
Edward R. Stein, J.D., Law
Linda P. Swift, M.A., Anthropology
Janet H. Tarolli, B.S.N., Nursing
William L. Vanderwill, M.S.W., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Lisa B. Vihos, B.A., History of Art
Roger L. Wabeke, M.S., Environmental and Industrial Health
Bryan L. Wharram, B.S., Biological Sciences
Kathleen V. Wider, Ph.D., Philosophy, UM-Dearborn
Susan Wineberg, M.A., Anthropology, UM-Dearborn
Matthew F. Wyneken, B.A., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Clinical Associate Professor
Michael L. Riolo, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry
Clinical Assistant Professor
Stephen E. Hershey, M.S., Dentistry
Clinical Instructor
Mark E. Cowen, M.D., Internal Medicine
Hernan Drobny, M.D., Internal Medicine
Evelyn L. Eccles, M.D., Family Practice
Selvadurai Narendran, M.Sc., Dentistry
Michael P. Sullivan, M.D., Internal Medicine
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Sandra C. Cole, from Adjunct Associate Professor to Clinical Associate Professor, Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation
Louis J. Erste, Adjunct Lecturer of Political Science, also appointed Adjunct Lecturer in the
College of Arts, Sciences and Letters, UM-Dearborn
Stephen P. Ethier, from Visiting Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer of Radiation Therapy, December
10, 1984
Tamara B. George, from Visiting Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer of Nursing, September 1, 1984
Andrea L. Long, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Urban
Planning




186


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Lewis H. Margolis, Assistant Professor of Health Planning and Administration and Clinical
Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Community Health Programs
Dipak L. Sengupta, from Lecturer to Adjunct Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, September 1, 1984
Mark C. Steinhoff, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, November 1, 1984
Robert A. Winfield, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medical Care Organization, also appointed
Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective December 31, 1984, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Jairus D. Flora, Biostatistics
Associate Professor
Asavin Chintakananda, Management, UM-Flint, January 18, 1985
Harold H. Rotman, Internal Medicine
Athanasios P. Zis, Psychiatry, January 14, 1985
Assistant Professor
Terrance M. Brady, Radiology, January 4, 1985
Janet A. Fairley, Dermatology
Instructor
Carol A. Graves, Physical Therapy, UM-Flint
Daniel F. Kurtycz, Pathology, January 31, 1985
Susan I. Rosen, Ophthalmology
Patrick Vijayalakshmy, Psychiatry, January 15, 1985
Robert G. Wilkins, Anesthesiology
Niall C. Wilton, Anesthesiology
Lecturer
Cheryl Breitenbach, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, September 14, 1984
Garry L. Johns, Mathematics, UM-Flint
Leaves of Absence
One off-campus assignment, seven leaves of absence without salary,
twenty-five sabbatical leaves, one scholarly activity leaves, one extended
sick leaves, and three retirement furloughs were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirements of four faculty members. The following retirement memoirs were adopted:
JAMES THOMAS CASSIDY, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine and Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, retired from active faculty status
effective May 7, 1984. Dr. Cassidy has had a long and distinguished career at The University
of Michigan Medical School. Although he is retiring from active service at The University of
Michigan, he has accepted a position as professor and chairman of pediatrics at Creighton
University Medical School in Omaha, Nebraska, effective with his date of retirement from this
institution.
Dr. Cassidy was born and raised in Oil City, Pennsylvania, and came to The University of
Michigan as an undergraduate in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in 1948. He
graduated from The University of Michigan Medical School cum laude in 1955. Following
graduation from medical school, he took residency training in internal medicine at University
Hospitals, Ann Arbor, between 1955 and 1957, and after two years as a medical officer in the
United States Navy (1957-59) he returned to complete his training in internal medicine in 1961.
He had fellowship training in rheumatology in the Rackham Arthritis Research Unit from
1961-63. It was during this interval that Dr. Cassidy developed his interest in the immunologic




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


187


aspects of rheumatic disease and a special interest in the clinical and immunologic abnormalities
that afflict children with the several major forms of rheumatic disease, particularly juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis.
Dr. Cassidy's major research interest for the past 20 years has been in the area of the
juvenile rheumatic diseases, in which he has become a nationally and internationally recognized
expert. He was one of the first to define a selective immunologic defect in certain children
afflicted with juvenile arthritis and has been a major force in defining the current classification
of the several subsets of juvenile arthritis that afflict approximately 200,000 children in the
United States at the present time. He is author of a contemporary textbook of pediatric
rheumatology that was published in 1982 in collaboration with several of his former trainees in
that field. Dr. Cassidy was also known for his skills as a bedside and didactic teacher of clinical
medicine. Throughout his career at this institution, he took major responsibilities for several of
the formal undergraduate and graduate teaching programs within the Medical School curriculum. Many patients and their families benefited from his high level of clinical skill in the
diagnosis and treatment of the several major forms of rheumatic disease. Dr. Cassidy was a
diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine and was also certified in the subspecialty
of rheumatology.
During the course of his career at Michigan, he served on many Medical School and
university committees, and was actively involved in the affairs of the American Rheumatism
Association and the Arthritis Foundation at the national level.
Dr. Cassidy was first appointed instructor in internal medicine in 1962. His joint appointment in the Department of Internal Medicine and the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases confirms the breadth of his clinical expertise and knowledge. Graduate and
postgraduate physicians in each of these fields have benefited from his skills as a teacher,
physician and clinical investigator in both pediatric and adult rheumatology. The Regents now
salute James Thomas Cassidy, M.D., for his dedicated service by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Internal Medicine and of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School.
ANGELA J. DELVECCHIO, Associate Professor of Nursing in the School of Nursing,
has retired from active faculty status as of December 31, 1984, after a productive career as an
educator.
A native of Chicago, Illinois, Professor Delvecchio is a graduate of Wright Junior College
and St. Luke's Hospital School of Nursing in that city. In 1945 she received her Bachelor of
Science degree in biological sciences and nursing education from the University of Chicago.
After holding faculty positions at the College of Nursing and Health, University of Cincinnati, and the Evanston Hospital Association School of Nursing, Professor Delvecchio pursued
graduate studies at Teachers College, Columbia University, leading to a Master of Arts degree
in nursing curriculum and teaching in 1953. Following a faculty position at Columbia University, and a term as associate director of nursing education at the Michael Reese Medical Center,
she joined the medical-surgical nursing faculty at The University of Michigan School of
Nursing from 1958-62.
Professor Delvecchio returned to The University of Michigan as associate professor in 1972
following faculty appointments at Loyola and Purdue Universities and the receipt of a Master of
Education degree in medical-surgical nursing from Teachers College, Columbia University.
Professor Delvecchio has been a consistently outstanding nursing educator, serving on
numerous School of Nursing committees, including the executive committee. She has made
significant contributions to curriculum development and has extended herself to colleagues as
advisor and consultant. She has been noted for her sensitive approach to students and clients.
Among her activities in various professional organizations, Professor Delvecchio has served
on the executive board and as faculty advisor to the Rho chapter of Sigma Theta Tau, the
national honor society in nursing. Her contributions to the local community include membership
in the Cobblestone Farm Association where she has served as board member and treasurer.
The Regents now salute this distinguished nursing educator for her dedicated service by
naming her Associate Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
EUGENE F. GREWE, Professor of Rhetoric and English Composition, has retired from
active faculty status as of December 31, 1984, after a most productive career as teacher,
researcher, and administrator.
A native of Detroit, Michigan, Professor Grewe received his Bachelor of Arts degree in
English from the University of Detroit in 1939 and his Master of Arts degree in English from




188


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


the same institution in 1947, after five years of service in the U.S. Army. He was awarded a
Ph.D. degree in English from The University of Michigan in 1963. After a distinguished and
active career at the University of Detroit, where he served as professor of English and chairman
of Freshman Composition and also as executive director of the Detroit Area Consortium of
Catholic Colleges, Professor Grewe came to The University of Michigan-Dearborn as professor
of English and director of writing programs in 1976. In 1978 he was appointed professor of
rhetoric and English composition.
A specialist in Milton and seventeenth-century English literature as well as composition,
Professor Grewe is the author (with John F. Sullivan) of The College Research Paper and a
variety of articles on composition and English literature. He has also served frequently as a
consultant on composition and the teaching of writing and was elected for two terms as
president of the Michigan College English Association. Throughout his career he has been
known as a meticulous, conscientious, and forceful teacher.
In his nine years at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Professor Grewe has also
compiled an extraordinary record of service to the university community. As director of writing
programs, he brought order and integrity to the teaching of writing on campus during a period
of rapid growth, and was responsible for the development of a full-time staff in composition.
He served gracefully and energetically as secretary of the Faculty Congress and as chair of
numerous committees. In 1980-81, he became interim chair of the Humanities Department and
from that post was appointed interim dean of the College of Arts, Sciences and Letters. As dean
he guided the college capably and fairly through two difficult years of budget cuts and financial
uncertainty. Finally, in 1983-84, he served a term as associate dean, devoting his energy and
imagination to the problems of academic advising and student records. Few faculty-even
among those who have been employed by the University far longer than Professor Grewe-can
equal his record of service.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and resourceful administrator for his unwavering loyalty and energetic service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Rhetoric and English
Composition.
NANCY REID HARVIE, Associate Professor in the Department of Microbiology and
Immunology of the Medical School, has retired from active faculty status as of July 31, 1984,
after 20 years of service in the department, and in the Institute of Science and Technology.
Professor Harvie completed her undergraduate work at the University of California at
Berkeley, earning election to Phi Beta Kappa in her junior year and an A.B. degree with
highest honors in bacteriology in 1951. Her graduate work was conducted in the department of
bacteriology at that institution, during which she was supported as a USPHS predoctoral fellow
(1958-60) and as a Rosenberg Scholar (1960-61). Her Ph.D. thesis research, completed in
1961, convinced her that progress in infectious disease research would depend on advances in
understanding the biochemical and biophysical parameters of microbial interactions with host
cells. To prepare herself for this field, she successfully secured a USPHS postdoctoral fellowship and joined Dr. J. Laurence Oncley (Harvard University, 1961-62, University of Michigan,
1962-) to learn about lipoproteins. During the years 1967-73, she was occupied with technical
studies aimed at fractioning and analyzing the very low density lipoproteins of human plasma.
During that period, she turned her attention to the lipoproteins of human plasma, and provided
the quantitative biochemical foundation for an excellent collaborative analysis of the biochemical genetics of this molecule.
By 1973, Professor Harvie felt ready to return to her original goal and initiated study on the
interaction of cytolytic toxins with soluble lipoproteins used as membrane models. She has
established the presence of a cholesteryl esterase which is found in close association with the
alpha toxin of Staphylococcus aureus. This discovery will force a reassessment of the characteristics attributed to alpha toxin. A complementary study, initiated in 1974, is the chemical
characterization of red blood cell membranes of various species with regard to bacterial toxin
susceptibility. Her starting point here was the development of a way to detect very small
amounts of cholesteryl esters in membranes. She has formulated a theory which involves these
esters in membrane properties and which can account for the species specificity of such
cytolytic agents as alpha toxin.
From the beginning of her career, Professor Harvie has been interested in the field of
medical laboratory technology. At the time of award of her A.B. degree in bacteriology, she
was certified as a public health bacteriologist and as a medical laboratory technologist in the
state of California. It was highly appropriate, therefore, that she devote her teaching efforts in




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


189


this direction at The University of Michigan where the medical technology program is
operated as a joint venture by the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the
Medical School.
Professor Harvie taught Microbiology 403 (Microbiology for Medical Technologists) for
years. This course has become a classic in the department and ranks as one of the most
demanding, yet rewarding, introductory microbiology courses for health professional students.
In 1984, Professor Harvie received from the American Society of Microbiology the prestigious
Carski Foundation Award for Distinguished Teaching.
The Regents now salute Nancy Reid Harvie for her dedicated service by naming her
Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology.
VII. MEMORIALS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, December 1984
delete: Hollis Renee Behm
add: Lori Ann Brown
Barbara Frances Clanton, cum laude
Claudia Jean Sparrer
Dental School
Doctor of Dental Surgery, August 19, 1983
delete: William Vincent Kozerski, Jr.
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Computer, Information and Control Engineering, December, 1984
correct to show: Mohammad Behnam Shadmehr
Master of Public Policy, December 1984
delete: Judith Helen Callens, B.G.S.
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Science, December 1984
Biology
add: Steven Vincent Thomas, B.S.
School of Education
Master of Arts, December 1984
Education
add: Thelma L. Peterson-Bell, A.B., Wayne State University, M.S.W., ibid
Specialist in Education
add: Ella Delorise Smith, B.S., Mercy College of Detroit, A.M.
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, August 1984
English Language and Literature
add: Jamie R. Zimmerman, A.B., Amherst College
College of Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering, April 1984
Industrial and Operations Engineering
add: Timothy Joseph Clancy, B.S.E.
School of Education
Master of Science, August 1981
Education
add: Douglas Lee Pierson, B.S., Western Michigan University; A.M., Michigan State
University




190


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
Master of Arts, December 1978
English Language and Literature
add: David Clay Brassfield, B.A., Haverford College
Public Health
Master of Science, April 1977
Epidemiologic Science
add: Marie A. D'Amico, B.S., Fordham University
Law School
Juris Doctor, May 11, 1984
correct to show: Robert Fabian Hedges, cum laude
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: David Simonds Vanker with High Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
add: Martin John Griffin
School of Music
Master of Music, December, 1984
correct to show: Karen Louise Peterson, B.S., Concordia Teacher's College, Music
Education
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the December 1984
Commencement exercises.
Henry Russel Awards, 1985
The Regents approved the appointments of Donald R. Kinder, Associate
Professor of Political Science and Psychology and Noboru Kikuchi, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics as recipients of the Henry Russel Award for 1985.
The Regents approved the recommendation for the Outstanding Alumni
Achievement Award.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice President Brinkerhoff highlighted certain aspects of the semi-annual
reports of the designated fund, auxiliary activities fund and expendable
restricted fund.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Brent Heynes, student, on student demonstrations; Peggie
Hollingsworth, Research Investigator, Pharmacology, on the accomplishments and goals of women faculty; Ann Ryan, Chris Harrison, Jennifer
Faigel, Sherry Kohn, and Roberts Bernhard, students, on security on campus; and Phyllis Engelbert, student, Scott Page, President, MSA, Richard
Mann, Professor of Psychology, Kristin Hass, student and Steve Angelotti,
graduate student, on PIRGIM.
The meeting was then recessed.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


191


Friday, February 15, 1985
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Cosovich, Interim Vice President Sussman,
and Vice President and Secretary also were present. Vice President Johnson
was absent, and Associate Vice President Easthope attended the meeting in
his place.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order, and said that the meeting
would begin with a discussion concerning the Mott/Women's/ Holden hospitals and the Bur Center.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that subsequent to the program
report on the Mott/Women's/Holden hospitals, the project will be released
for schematic drawings which would then be reviewed by the Board for their
approval before proceeding into the working drawings. He introduced Dr.
Jeptha Dalston, Executive Director, University Hospitals, who would present the report.
Mott/Women's/Holden Hospitals Project
Dr. Dalston reviewed the background of the Mott/Women's/Holden
complex. He said that although the primary thrust of the replacement
hospital project pertained to the Adult General Hospital and the ambulatory
care facility, Mott Children's Hospital, Women's Hospital, and the Holden
Perinatal Center and research laboratories are important components of the
project and are closely interrelated. A determination was made at the outset
that the three units should be one cohesive unit and designated the Maternal
and Child Health Center. Women's Hospital is the oldest and the one in the
greatest need of improvement, because there are serious life safety code
deficiencies, and clinical and systems have obsolescent components; Mott
Hospital is a moder building that meets the life safety codes, but is
incomplete; the Holden unit is the newest of the three and has no serious
deficiences. Specific cost studies for renovations were originally deferred as
concentration on the Adult General Hospital moved forward; however, a
budget of $18.8 million was set for the Mott/Women's/Holden Hospitals.
A planning committee was established and a consultant retained to
complete the programmatic planning and facility improvements. Analyses,
discussions and debates of the options that were developed followed. Each
had advantages and disadvantages, but all addressed the program requirements and all were over budget. At this point, it was realized that the full
replacement of Women's Hospital was not feasible, and the committee
began to develop a plan other than replacing Women's Hospital, but utilizing the building.




192


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Dr. Dalston described the steps that led to the final decision to renovate
Women's Hospital for office and research space and to relocate Women's
Hospital. Through the process, it became apparent that an additional $3
million would be required, bringing the total cost of the project to approximately $21 million.
Mr. Joseph Diederich, Director of the Replacement Hospital Program,
showed slides which reviewed the concept of the Maternal and Child Care
Center, including construction between Mott and Women's Hospitals, expansion of the Ambulatory Care Facility to provide for a new OB/GYN
clinic, and other important points. Mr. Diederich indicated that the committee felt that the plan afforded the least expensive option to provide all of the
necessary programs in both pediatrics and obstetrics, and, most importantly,
to rehouse Women's Hospital.
Dr. Robert Kelch, Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, commented that the highest priority given in the planning process by himself and many others was cost effective, high quality
patient care.
Mr. Diederich responded to questions posed by Regent Baker as follows:
The cost to renovate Old Main and the Outpatient Building to accommodate
these functions would be as expensive as building new space, and it was not
considered to be a good investment. The Outpatient Building would be a
possibility for OB/GYN, but it would remove patients from the Maternal
and Child Care Center. Mr. Diederich said that he believes the plan fits
within conservative fiscal planning and provides as much of the programming that is needed for the least cost possible. There is an overall plan and
Old Main is being considered for office space at the present time to
accommodate other programs that are not included in the Mott/Women's/
Holden complex. Mr. Diederich indicated that marketing studies and cost
benefit studies have been made and they will be distributed to the
Regents.
Mr. Diederich commented that from a clinical and cost benefit standpoint, it is inappropriate to continue to use Women's Hospital and Old Main
for clinical purposes. However, it might not be inappropriate to use those
facilities for office space or some other alternative. All of the buildings in
the inventory, including the North Ingalls Building, are being considered
from a master planning sense to find space for those units that will not be
housed in the AGH, ACF, or the Mott/Women's/Holden plan. There is a
study at the present time to determine the advisability of razing Old Main
versus providing office space.
Regent Roach commented that, in his view, the present plan fits in with
the master plan and the overall RHP program. Basically, the recommended
plan generates a slight program expansion above the original estimate and
will be funded from hospital funds. He said he did not anticipate any overall
problem. He wanted to make sure he understood that clinical care would be
discontinued in Women's Hospital and it would be converted to office and
laboratory space. The response was in the affirmative. He indicated that
there must be careful planning by the architect on both the quesion of surge




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


193


space and site restrictions as this project is phased in to the Medical Center.
He then asked about the timetable.
Mr. Diederich said the construction could not begin until occupancy of
the Adult General Hospital and the ambulatory care facility has taken place.
He said that it would be inappropriate to commit any construction funds to
those projects at this time. The construction will be a two-year process with
occupancy in 1988.
Regents Brown and Power were concerned about the parking situation
for patients and visitors. Mr. Diederich commented that the new parking
structure on the Medical Campus was designed for use by patients and
visitors, and will be adequate for that purpose. The Hospital staff parking lot
is large enough to accommodate the present staff needs; however, there is
concern that the research facilities on the western side of the Medical
Campus will bring an influx of people to that area. Perhaps a parking
complex on the perimeter of the ring road, which would be consistent with
the master plan, would be appropriate to accommodate those people. Regent
Power remarked that she hoped there would not be any erosion of the parking
facility that is intended to accommodate patients and visitors. The Hospital
staff must be apprised of facilities specifically reserved for patients and
visitors.
President Shapiro commented that a review of the master plan, including
all economic and financial studies, which has been done to support the
projects, will be presented to the Regents at a subsequent meeting. He
pointed out that there has been an extensive planning and consulting process
and it has been shared with the Board. As new challenges and developments
arise, the University must review the progam to ascertain the validity of
those assumptions and projects. He indicated that he did not want to
leave the impression that the program has not been given the utmost
consideration.
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that there is no action necessary at
this time except to concur in increasing the project budget from $18 million
to $21 million and to begin to develop schematic plans against that base.
The schematic plans and the budget would come back to the Board upon
completion of the schematic plans.
Regent Baker stated that since there apparently is no pressure to have a
motion at this time, there should be an update of the economic and financial
data before a decision is made. Vice President Brinkerhoff said that the issue
would be deferred until he has had the opportunity to address other reports
in the agenda.
Burn Center Construction Contract
Vice President Brinkerhoff then reviewed the request to release the bid
package for the Bur Center He said that the low bid is within budget. At
this time, the University will not construct the 13-bed general care unit as a
result of discussions with the Michigan Department of Public Health. The
project will go forward at less than the budget that was originally identified
for the Bur Center.




194


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Regent Baker moved to approve the award of a construction contract to
the low bidder, Spence Brothers, Saginaw, Michigan for the University of
Michigan Hospitals' Bum Center General Contract Work bid package.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Replacement Hospital Project Update
Vice President Brinkerhoff distributed and reviewed a summary document of the various programs in the replacement hospital. The document
included the $285 million project budget, a composite of the source and use
of funds for the replacement hospital program, a series of projects that have
been undertaken to supplement the replacement hospital, and provision for
the continued support of ongoing activities.
Mott/Women's/Holden Hospitals Planning
Following further discussion, Vice President Brinkerhoff referred to the
Mott/Women's/Holden Hospitals discussion and indicated that there was a
project supplement of $3 million which was made possible through the
allocation of resources just discussed. If the Board wishes to pass a motion
to undertake schematic planning with a project target goal of $21.8 million,
it would be appreciated.
Regent Baker said that he would make the motion with the condition that
a review of the financial base be provided to the Board. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
President Shapiro clarified the issue noting it was not a question of
whether the money was available to build the facility, but who would sustain
the operations once the facility was constructed.
President Shapiro then called for the vote and the motion was adopted
unanimously.
1985-86 Budget Request
With respect to the 1985-86 budget, Vice President Frye commented that
it was possible there would be some very hard choices that will have to be
made by the Board that relate not only to requirements for next year, but to
the long-range requirements and well-being of the University. The dominant
feature in the budget planning continues to be the problem created by
the gap that has developed over the last decade or more in the state
appropriations.
Vice President Frye distributed and reviewed information summarizing
state appropriations received, requested, and realized from 1977 to the
present, the general fund revenue which showed appropriations, student fees
in current dollars and dollars adjusted for inflation for the last decade, and
charts indicating the degree of the shortfall in the general fund appropriations since 1974.
He summarized the main features of the governor's recommendation,
and mentioned a new initiative which would set aside approximately $25
million for a research excellence fund which would be distributed to four
institutions: The University of Michigan, Michigan State University, Michi



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


195


gan Technological University and Wayne State University. The disbursement of those dollars among the four institutions is undetermined. If this
fund should be designated to specific purposes, it would have no impact on
the operating budget. If the governor's recommendation is approved, the
state appropriation for 1985-86 would bring $14.3 million and student fees,
assuming they will be set at the rate of inflation (5.35%), would add $7.4
million. Other revenues anticipated for the general fund would be indirect
cost at 1.5 million, for a total revenue of $23 million. The request to the
state which reflected the University's unmet needs was for an increase of
$45 million.
Vice President Frye listed the minimal expenses to be met in 1985-86 as:
the $1.4 million deficit budgeted last year which must be picked up; salary
increases at the rate of inflation and staff benefits which continue to rise
faster than the rate of inflation would cost approximately $15.8 million; non
salary increases, such as utilities ($2.3 million), other non-salary commitments ($3.4 million), and ongoing commitments and underbudgeted items
together would add $9 million for a total in next year's budget of $26.4
million.
Vice President Frye indicated that approximately $3 million is expected
from the five-year plan again next year, but he hoped this would not have to
be used to balance the budget. The purpose of the retrenchment plan was to
help enhance the campus, and, although having a balanced budget is an
enhancement, it is not the most positive form of enhancement. In addition to
the five-year plan, a communication has been transmitted to all units to
provide a supplemental reduction of 1%. Beyond that, the budget will
depend upon tuition to generate additional revenue and locating expenditures
that can be reduced. He emphasized that although the appropriation appears
relatively generous, the University has lost a great deal of its resources and
reserves over the years, and it would be a mistake to assume that next year's
budget could be dealt with as if the crisis was over.
President Shapiro commented that the governor has taken some major
initiatives this year with respect to capital outlay and the research excellence
fund. The critical issue of this fund is not so much how it is handled this
year, but how to sustain it and make it a part of the institutional framework
for allocating state resources to higher education. He also mentioned intitiatives
in the federal budget area which could have a major impact on the financing
of higher education in many of the states: the student financial aid issue,
probably the single most important, and in the revenue sharing area and
other programs as primary beneficiaries are in the states which could be cut
very significantly. These would put much greater pressure on the state
budget and, therefore, put education in general into much more competition
for state resources as well. He indicated that these initiatives may not be
valid in their own right, but he is concerned because it may have some
indirect impact on the availability of resources for higher education.
There followed a five minutes recess.




196


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Auditors, 1984-85
Regent Power moved to approve the reappointment of Price Waterhouse
as auditors for 1984-85, as recommended. Regent Nielsen seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Audit Report, Donor Pooled Income Fund, 1984
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the audit report of the University of
Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund for the year ending December 31,
1984, and it was accepted by the Regents.
Auditor General Operations Report
Regent Power moved to accept the Auditor General general operations
report and approve the responses. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
PIRGIM
President Shapiro then asked for comments with respect to the request
for the extension of one year of the existing agreement with PIRGIM, Public
Interest Research Group in Michigan.
Regent Brown commented that PIRGIM has been on the agenda for
many years and everyone recalls how it began in the early 1970s, and the
reasons it become part of the system with respect to th various methods of
funding which have occurred. At the present time, PIRGIM has not been
able to meet the regental guidelines in terms of student support. He said he
was willing to have PIRGIM continue at the University on a temporary
basis, as recommended. However, it must be made clear to them that the
present method of funding cannot continue beyond that time because the
organization does not meet the guidelines that were set by the Regents.
Regent Brown then moved to approve a one year extension of the
existing agreement with PIRGIM. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker questioned why PIRGIM had been allowed to return time
after time seeking approval by the Regents. He said that it is a lobbying
organization and it raises money for politically related causes. PIRGIM is,
in his judgment, against the automobile business, anti public utility, anti
nuclear power, anti military, anti defense and anti free market. PIRGIM
supported the military research ban, and the anti draft movement on this
campus. It represents a whole series of positions in its lobbying activities. It
seems its members work to elect only Democratic office holders. Regent
Baker indicated that this was not his principal reason for his opposition to
PIRGIM, but it ought to be stated that, to his knowledge, the organization
has not worked to elect any Republican office holder.
Regent Baker noted that PIRGIM had taken more than $725,000 from
the campus since 1972. According to the University's most recent report,
PIRGIM was supported by less than 8% of the students in spite of of its
"special position." This is an indication that PIRGIM is rejected by the
majority of the students. Over the years, these discussions have attracted
many people to the meetings who are in support of PIRGIM. Pro PIRGIM
speakers are resoundingly applauded. The speakers who express their oppo



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


197


sition to PIRGIM are subjected to various rude reactions by the audience
thus limiting the opponent's right to be heard, such as the case yesterday as
the audience "hummed" at the remarks of the anti PIRGIM speaker. Any
organization that can't support the concept of free speech and free discussion, does not deserve another minute on this campus with special privileges. Regent Baker said that, in his view, it is time to cease the charade
that this group represents all of the students of this University and the
Regents should end this contract.
Regent Nielsen asked Regent Varner to clarify her previous oppostion to
the organization.
Regent Varner indicated that her concern was mainly because the organization did not have much student support, and one of the major missions of
the University with respect to students was to provide them with a meaningful educational experience. PIRGIM is a non-University organization that
was permitted to operate here. In her view, students should be able to
receive from its activities some kind of meaningful educational experience.
Regent Varner said this was still her concern, and she felt that the organization has an obligation to recommend to the Board a better system than the
present one. She indicated that her position has not changed.
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed briefly the history of PIRGIM, and
indicated that, at the outset, the group had 50% support of the student body,
but needed a funding vehicle. The Regents then set the student support
restrictions which have been declining steadily.
Regent Nielsen commented that the purpose of the contract, then, was to
provide a system by which PIRGIM could obtain funding.
Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that the fundamental purpose of
the contract, as far as the institution was concerned, was to provide a
mechanism within which the organization could achieve a funding base to
accomplish its goals and objectives. Although student support was significantly below the approved percentage, the recommendation was included in
the agenda for regental discussion and deliberation.
Regent Brown commented that it was understood from the beginning
that PIRGIM was part of a state organization, and that other institutions
would be involved. The universities were expected to provide only a portion
of the budget for the group.
Regent Roach indicated that, in his view, PIRGIM is not a partisan
organization nor is this a partisan political issue. From his observation, the
organization has never supported a candidate of either party. It is not a
candidate type organization. There are many things that the organization
supports that the Democratic party does not agree with either.
Regent Roach then reviewed the various methods that have been used to
finance PIRGIM. First, a policy was established which allowed any organization achieving more than 50% student support by petition to have the
benefit of a checkoff type system at registration, but support must not fall
below 33 1/3%. When CRISP became the registration mechanism, the
funding method became a negative check off system which obligated the
students to contact the proper office to indicate that they did not want to
contribute to PIRGIM. Since 1978 there has been a positive checkoff
system. It seems, however, that the University is the only institution which




198


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


still has the positive checkoff system; all of the others are on a voluntary
basis. Wayne State and Michigan State Universities do not use university
funding mechanisms any more.
Regent Roach indicated that in his view, the organization does a lot of
good educationally. It provides an opportunity for some of students to
experience the political process and lobbying and research on public issues.
However, he felt that student support was not sufficient to warrant continuing the use of the University's resources for the organization. Regent Roach
then moved to amend Regent Brown's motion by extending the contract
through the fall term of 1985, but not thereafter, and that during the interim,
PIRGIM could undertake planning and working on other funding resources
as they deem appropriate.
President Shapiro indicated that he wanted to clarify the amendment.
There are really two changes suggested: (1) limit the extension to this
calendar year which would be available only through the fall term, (2) that if
any planning is to take place, it would be up to PIRGIM. If the organization
wished, they could discuss any alternative with Vice President Brinkerhoff's
staff. Regent Roach agreed with the clarification. President Shapiro asked if
there was a second to the amendment.
Regent Baker seconded the motion with the understanding the PIRGIM's
access to the University system would cease at that time and the group
would no longer have a special position after that specific date. However,
the University officer would not be obligated in any way to negotiate with
PIRGIM regarding any set of recommendations submitted by PIRGIM to the
administration.
President Shapiro responded that that would be true if the amendment
passes.
Regent Brown remarked that he felt that Regent Baker's understanding
goes beyond the intention of the motion. The University still has a policy
that any organization that has 50% student support would be permitted to
use the University's funding mechanisms. President Shapiro indicated that
this particular contract would end, but if the organization should gain 50%
support that would raise a new issue.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the amendment to the
original motion, and it was adopted with Regent Nielsen voting no.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the amended motion, and it
was adopted with Regent Nielsen voting no. Regent Waters was absent
during the discussion and vote.
Industrial Technology Institute
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the revised lease for the Industrial
Technology Institute. He said that the University attorney believes that a
revised lease should give the University the option of either: (1) Terminating
it by buying out the Institute's interest in the lease and building at a price
equal to approximately 50% of the construction cost of the building, or (2)
Acquiring any sublease resulting from the Institute's default on its construction lending obligation, which would protect the interests of all of the parties
involved.
Regent Roach indicated that he had a brief discussion the previous day




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


199


with the attorney about the lease. He said that he was concerned about the
risk the University would have during the construction period. For example,
if the building is only partially built when a default should occur, the
University would be in a situation where it might involve paying a certain
amount of money. If the building was incomplete, the University may have
to remit additional funds to complete the building. The traditional ways to
make that risk minimal are such things as performance and payment bonds
that contractors must provide the owner (in this case, to ITI and the bank),
and that the construction loan documents and the construction contract
documents provide, in effect, that the owner's money be used first so that
there are sufficient funds in the bank to complete the building. Many of
those things are not the University's direct business, but because of the
unusual nature of this transaction, the University has a very legitimate
interest and must have some review and control over this. Accordingly,
Regent Roach then moved to authorize the revised lease, subject to the
approval by the office of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the construction lending documents, construction documents and bonds.
Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted.
X. OTHER
The request to revise Regents' Bylaw Section 5.19(1) was withdrawn.
Ship Hydrodynamics Laboratory Dynamometer
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the ratification of the subcontract with
Integrated Engineering Services for Design and Fabrication of Ship Motions' Dynamometer for Ship Hydrodynamics Laboratory. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regents' Meeting Date Change
A motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, and adopted,
approved the change of dates of the July Regents' meeting from July 18 and
19 to August 1 and 2, 1985.
Middle East Studies Association Membership
Regent Power moved to approve the request for membership in the
Middle East Studies Association in North America (MESA) for the Center
for Near Eastern and North African Studies and the Department of Near
Eastern Studies. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Michigan Energy and Resource Research Association Membership
Regent Nielsen moved approval for the College of Engineering to join
the Michigan Energy and Resource Research Association (MERRA). Regent
Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Plug Compatible Software, Inc. Contract
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, and adopted,
authorization was granted to negotiate a contract with Plug Compatible
Software, Inc. (PCS).




200


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1985


Medical Staff Appointments
The Regents approved the recommendation for appointments to medical
staff membership.
Dearborn Campus Budget Recommendation
Chancellor Jenkins commented that he would like to point out some of
the problems that the Dearborn campus is facing with respect to the governor's budget recommendation. The Dearborn request for funds amounted to
approximately $2.2 million, and the recommendation coming from the
governor's office amounts to $1.1 million, which is about one-half of the
request. He indicated that the 11% appropriation increase only involves the
appropriation and amounts to about a 6% increase as opposed to an 11%
increase on the total budget. The 5% inflation portion of that recommendation amounts to $598,000, which would be insufficient to provide a 5%
increase for faculty salaries. If the faculty was given a 5% increase with
fringe benefits, it amounts to $817,000 or some $219,000 short. That is just
one example of the shortfall of the recommendation.
After three very difficult years of budgetary experience, what is being
recommended, while helpful, is simply not enough alone to do what is
required for the Dearborn campus. The recommended funding will not allow
for the makeup factor and the inflationary factor. There may be small
amounts of additional funds for the campus from the research excellence
fund, and some from other categories. The Dearborn campus, then, is facing
the prospect of having to ask for a tuition increase. Although the administration is very cognizant of the fact that the students are paying a very large
sum for their college education, there does not seem to be any alternative
but to begin considering an increase. The budget will not make up for the
present deficiencies and the future needs.
Vice President Frye pointed out that while the operating budget is of
concern, even greater concern to the Chancellor and the source of great
unhappiness for the campus, was the fact that this year, the campus has not
been recommended for any capital outlay. The campus does have capital
outlay needs as great as any campus in the state, and yet, it is not on any
schedule for improvement. It has been five years since the last capital outlay
funds were approved for the Dearborn campus. There is a need for some
improvement in this area in the coming year.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
January totaled $1,355.39.
The Regents adjourned to meet on March 14 and 15, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




MARCH MEETING, 1985
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 14, 1985
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President Sussman,
and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Varner
was absent.
President Shapiro convened the meeting and indicated that this portion of
the meeting would be a review of a number of issues with respect to the
medical center, and the replacement hospital project. First, however, Regent
Roach would like to introduce a motion.
Closed Meeting Motion
Regent Roach then moved that the Regents meet in closed session at 1:00
p.m. pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act for the purpose of
discussing a legal opinion which is exempt from disclosure under the
attorney/client exemption of Section 13(1)(h) of the Freedom of Information
Act. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith and Waters voting affirmatively.
Medical Center-Review of Past, Current, and Future Plans and Issues
Vice President Brinkerhoff remarked that in order to provide an opportunity for the two new Board members to hear some of the prior planning
processes through which the whole replacement hospital program has gone,
and as a review for the other Board members, a two-hour presentation has
been designed. The financial issues that were raised at the Board meeting
last month would be reviewed in May along with the Hospital budget.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Executive Director of University Hospitals, then
presented an overview of the planning process from 1975 to the present time
denoting the major milestones in the development of the mission, the
program planning, and the regulatory and political issues. Carl Johnson and
Richard Richterrink of Johnson, Johnson and Roy, focused upon the facilities master planning. John Forsyth, Deputy Executive Hospital Director,
discussed some of the financial activities that have taken place during the
process, and Dr. George Zuidema, Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, spoke
to the future of the complex and discussed the planning process to assure the
financial viability of the enterprise through the years ahead.
Dr. Zuidema concluded by noting that, in his view, the University of
Michigan Medical Center is in a very strong position at the present time and
it is a healthy enterprise. At the same time, it is known that conditions are
changing and it will be necessary to adjust. The Medical Center cannot rely
on management principles and programs which have brought the present
levels of success. New strategies are being developed as reassessment
201




202


MARCH MEETING, 1985


continues. It is believed that response to change is on a timely basis. Efforts
will be made to build on the strengths of the Hospital and to address any
deficiencies, in order to present a well balanced and comprehensive posture
for the next ten years at least.
Regent Baker thanked Dr. Zuidema for his presentation, emphasizing the
radical changes in health care financing which were occurring in society.
Regent Baker was particularly concerned with the planning and financing
process relating to the administration's proposed implementation of an extensive expansion of programs for Women's, Children's and Holden's Hospitals. Dr. Zuidema stated close financial analysis, both short and long term,
was under way with regard to Regent Baker's question, as well as all
components of the University of Michigan's health care system for the
Regents' future review.
The meeting was recessed for lunch.
The public meeting reconvened at 2:00 P.M., immediately following the
closed executive session. Regent Varner had joined the meeting at 1:00 P.M.
Minority Student Report
President Shapiro introduced Mrs. Virginia Nordby, Executive Assistant
to the President and Director of Affirmative Action Programs, who would
speak to the minority student report.
Mrs. Nordby indicated that because there is a great deal of interest in the
proposals being brought forward by Dr. Niara Sudarkasa, Associate Professor of Academic Affairs, her remarks would be brief and would touch only
upon the highlights of the report. She commended her staff and others who
worked so diligently in compiling the material.
Mrs. Nordby commented that it is important to keep in mind that,
although the University has a strong commitment to student affirmative
action, there are no state or federal laws or regulations which require it.
Therefore, programs can be developed and evaluated without regard to the
technical reporting requirements that pertain to faculty and staff affirmative
action.
Reviewing the highlights of the report, Mrs. Nordby noted that foreign
students and students in certain special and non-degree programs are not
included in the count. However, the evening MBA program is now included. Total minority enrollment at the University is the highest (11.3%) it
has ever been. At the undergraduate level, there has been an increase in all
minority groups, and an increase in all minority groups except Native
Americans in the graduate/professional levels. More importantly, there has
been greater success in the number of minority students who have received
baccalaureate degrees from the University after four, five, or six years,
depending upon individual circumstances.
Mrs. Nordby noted the activities that are university-wide and centrallyadministered which are designed to recruit, increase the pool of potential
students, and the retention of students. For the past three years, the schools
and colleges have been systematically improving, evaluating and adjusting
their programs. As an example she cited the many units under the Vice
President for Student Services, as well as the Office of Undergraduate




MARCH MEETING, 1985


203


Admissions, the Alumni Association, the Office of Financial Aid, Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, the Housing Division, and many other units
throughout the institution.
At the University of Michigan-Dearborn, the number of undergraduate
minorities has decreased slightly, but Hispanic student enrollment has increased. Of the undergraduate minorities, Blacks are the largest fraction
(6.1%), and there are small increases in graduate minorities. The Dearborn
campus has initiated many interesting recruitment programs, including the
Chancellor's special scholarships and awards, and a careful evaluation of the
Program for Academic Support (PAS) that has identified new directions and
clearer goals.
The total minority enrollment at the University of Michigan-Flint for all
minority groups has increased. Black enrollment alone has risen to 9.3%.
The Flint Campus has given a high priority to addressing retention and
graduation and has initiated many interesting activities to bring about success in this area.
In conclusion, Mrs. Nordby indicated the numbers and percentage representation of all minority groups has improved since last year, and some are
at the highest number ever. A few major graduate/professional programs
have shown very strong improvement. There were 431 baccalaureate degrees awarded to minority students this year, which is the largest number
ever awarded in a single year.
Regent Roach indicated that the report this year was very well presented,
and it becomes more understandable and more helpful each year. He mentioned the innovative programs that have been developed at some of the
schools and colleges in an attempt to remedy the recruitment and retention
problems of minority students. He asked if the report was widely distributed
throughout the University community. Mrs. Nordby indicated that, indeed,
it was.
Regent Power commented that it was obvious that new challenges had to
be devised to open the community to minority persons. This report clearly
reflects the University's attitude that increased minority enrollment represents both a challenge and an opportunity. There has been significant
success in Asian enrollment, and there have been some extraordinary programs initiated which indicated that the University is definitely moving
toward reaching the Black persons in the population. She said that it
certainly was not for a lack of Black persons in this state who could have a
good experience at this University; the University simply needs to get them
here.
Regent Varner was encouraged to see the many things that were being
done in the units for recruitment, retention, and support for minority students. She commented upon an earlier statement which indicated that affirmative action in the student area is not required by law, but nondiscrimination
is. In her view, one of the University's strengths has been to undertake this
program. She said she would like to encourage the administrators and the
deans in all units to continue to try to reach the goal that the University
established for itself a number of years ago.
Vice President Frye then commented that he was pleased to report some
success in minority recruitment and retention after such poor results over the




204


MARCH MEETING, 1985


past year or two. It has been a disappointment that enrollment and graduation of underrepresented minorities has not risen to the levels that was
believed possible despite great efforts by the University community. A
re-examination of affirmative action policies and practices was initiated to
determine ways to improve this performance. As an initial step, a position
was created, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, to give leadership and visibility to this area. Dr. Niara Sudarkasa was appointed to that
position and immediately began to review past policies and practices and to
propose some initiatives for further consideration. Dr. Sudarkasa would
present the proposals and explain how these initiatives will attempt to
enhance the University's performance in accessibility to high quality higher
education to minority groups.
Dr. Sudarkasa noted that when she addressed the Regents last year, she
had indicated that she was encouraged by the overall increase in minority
enrollment, but was concerned about the decline in Black enrollment.
Fortunately, that decline has been reversed this past year, but efforts must be
intensified. There is a need for decisive measures to bring enrollment of the
largest minority group in the state up to levels to which the University
aspired several years ago. Dr. Sudarkasa commented that minority students
can be provided with a quality education at the University of Michigan, and
one that they can afford.
Dr. Sudarkasa noted in her first report to the executive officers an
evaluation of progress in identifying factors which have contributed to some
of the difficult questions posed. The report focused on undergraduate admission, specifically with respect to recruitment, admission policy, and financial aid.
The questions to be answered were: Why had black enrollment declined
so drastically after 1976? Was it realistic to aim toward a 10% Black
enrollment? Were policies needed that would address the recruitment problems for all minorities, or a subset of them? What can the University do to
reverse the trends?
A number of factors had been attributed to the decline in Black enrollment, including: the academic climate; the general social environment on
campus for students; and the image of the University as a relatively inhospitable place for minority students. But, Dr. Sudarkasa said, in her view,
beginning in 1976 there was a combination of political and economic factors
that affected Blacks on the national, state, and University levels which
impacted negatively on enrollment. For example, there was a movement
away from civil rights issues at the national level; the constituency of the
underprivileged began to broaden so that policies that were initially focused
on Blacks were focused on all minorities; financial aid had to accommodate
to a larger constituency, thus reducing availability to Blacks; and the back-toback recessions that touched Michigan residents, particularly Blacks who
were affected most of all. All of these factors have been critical to enrollment of Blacks at The University of Michigan.
The Opportunity Program, which was established in 1964, had guidelines that allowed virtually all minority students, and most of them at that
time were Black, who enrolled to qualify for the economic package provided
by the program. A few years later some of the better prepared students felt




MARCH MEETING, 1985


205


stygmatized by the opportunity label. The Opportunity Program was then
restricted to those students whose grade point averages and SAT scores, or
general standardized test scores were below a certain level. The effect of
this, however, was to cut back aid to the better prepared students.
Having made the determination that the goal of 10% was reasonable, a
study was undertaken by the Office of Academic Analysis and Planning
which revealed that there was a discrepancy between the numbers of students who would qualify for admission to the University on the basis of
grades and those who would qualify on the basis of test scores. The study
also revealed that a high proportion of instate minority students who are
qualified to attend The University of Michigan do not apply. This is particularly true for Blacks and Hispanics. Dr. Sudarkasa said that, in her judgment, standardized tests are not the best predictors of success of Black
students in college because Black students in particular have not always had
the educational preparation for the aptitude examinations. This does not
suggest that we abandon any reliance on test scores as one criteria for
admission, but perhaps look more closely at high school records and teachers' evaluations for those students who show high promise in one dimension
and relatively low promise in the other.
Dr. Sudarkasa then listed other recommendations: (1) increase the applicant pool by emphasizing recruitment on a personal contact basis, rather
than simply publicizing the University in order to bring students to the
University, (2) involve faculty, alumni and students in recruitment planning
as well as the process, (3) modifying the present financial aid policy which
allows a more favorable package to opportunity students. (All underrepresented
minority students, Blacks, Hispanics, and Native Americans, who do not
receive merit awards or do not qualify for opportunity award aid, should be
eligible for financial aid equal to the opportunity package.) (4) increasing
the Michigan Achievement Award from $750.00 to $1,000.00, and continuing the level of funding of the out-of-state award.
In conclusion, Dr. Sudarkasa indicated that a critical component of
minority enrollment is the provision of services that increase retention and
graduation rates. Two more reports will be forthcoming, one focusing on
graduate enrollment generally, and the other on the general quality of life
and academic issues related to retention of undergraduate students.
Regent Baker commented on the experience of the University in the
mid-1970's when the University implemented a similar program with regard
to admitting students who did not meet minimum test score standards for
admission. The University experienced, over the next several years, a very
substantial drop in the retention and graduation rates of minority students, a
result of which was to damage University's reputation in the various minority communities. The University has worked very hard and with reasonable
success to correct the damage done by that action.
Regent Baker also requested that Provost Frye provide the Regents, in
addition to the brief report presented at the meeting, a detailed analysis of
financial aid provided to all students, including a breakdown of aid allocation to the various groups of students enrolled in the University. Regent
Baker also noted that many of Dr. Sudarkasa's other recommendations had
been implemented by the University. It was his understanding that the




206


MARCH MEETING, 1985


recruiting office's efforts in these regards would provide a substantial increase in minority enrollment for the year beginning September 1985.
Vice President Frye observed that probably the most controversial of Dr.
Sudarkasa's recommendations concerned experimenting with a change in the
weighting of the national test scores on the one hand and high school
performance on the other hand when there is an indication that the student in
the latter group may hold special promise. He indicated that the administration would move very cautiously before arriving at a decision on this
recommendation in order to avoid the risk of reversing the retention rate that
occurred a few years ago.
Considerable discussion followed which included the possible reason
qualified minority students are not applying for admission to The University
of Michigan, recruitment responsibility in the schools and colleges, economic incentives, the necessary support programs to aid students once they
have been admitted, failure of the K-12 system to produce sufficient numbers of people who are qualified to come to this or any other institution, and
the significant changes in the recruiting process in the schools and colleges
and the admissions office.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Susan Kilham, associate research scientist, on accomplishments and goals of women faculty; Roderick Lindsey, student, on minority
recruitment and retention; Ronald Kirkland and Nina Riley, students, on
minority recruitment weekend; Roderick Dean and Rick Blalock, students,
on the minority report; Daniel Melendez, graduate student, on Hispanic
minorities; and Charles Tackett, Ann Arbor citizen, on Americanism with
education.
The meeting was recessed.
Friday, March 15, 1985
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President Sussman,
and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Power
was absent.
Budget Planning, 1985-86, Ann Arbor Campus
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated that the
meeting would begin with some budget planning information for 1985-86.
Vice President Frye commented that at the meeting last month he
presented an overview of the budget with particular emphasis on the governor's recommendations for higher education and the implications of those
recommendations for the University this coming year. He underscored, also,
some of the historic gaps in the budget that have developed which were
discussed frequently over the past few years.
The basic element of the governor's recommendation for the University




MARCH MEETING, 1985


207


amounted to an increase of 7.9% to approximately 12% depending upon
whether or not the research excellence funds materialize and just how they
are allocated between the research institutions. He reminded the Board that
the loss in purchasing power caused by the inadequacy of the state appropriations over the last ten to fifteen years was in the order of $40 million with
corresponding deficits in expenditures in a variety of categories, such as
salaries, and equipment. He said he would like to take this discussion a step
further and go through one of the early budget models for Ann Arbor for the
next fiscal year. A table for each campus was distributed.
He described briefly the following planning alternative which, he emphasized, was simply a model and should not be construed as a budget
proposal: the governor's recommendation for the Ann Arbor Campus would
be 7.9%, or $14.3 million, and does not include any research excellence
funds. It supposes a tuition increase of 5%, or $6.8 million, indirect cost
based upon expected volume increases in sponsored research of $1 million
plus, and then some interest income which would generate a total revenue of
approximately $22.4 million.
Vice President Frye listed the expenditure components, which included a
salary program adjusted to the rate of inflation, staff benefits rate increases,
student aid (the Regents fellowship program for doctoral students, undergraduate minority student support program, and financial aid increase which
would accompany the tuition increase), utilities and new space, other nonsalary
expenditures, general fund deficits, program commitments, and instructional
equipment. There is no provision in this plan for important items such as
incremental costs in computing, library acquisitions, instructional equipment, and staffing problems in engineering and other programs. Despite
these omissions, the expenditure items total approximately $26.9 million,
leaving a discrepancy of about $4.5 million between revenue and expenditures. One way to reconcile the difference would be to increase fee revenues, but that would require about a 9% tuition increase.
The next installment of the five-year plan through internal reallocation
will provide approximately $3 million. However, the purpose of those funds
is to meet some of the new development requirements, and it would be most
unfortunate to have to use these funds to balance the budget. Vice President
Frye indicated that he recently notified the vice presidents, deans and
directors that they should make provisions to recover and reallocate at least
1% of their budgets to their own highest priority purposes.
If the University receives the research excellence funds, although they
would be very beneficial to the University, there would not be any direct
impact on next year's budget because the funds would be specifically
designated for particular purposes, mostly associated with engineering and
engineering school related activities. In subsequent years, however, the
University may adjust activities related to those kinds of initiatives.
Choices will have to be made to either raise tuition, increase the number
of students, cap enrollments, or change the ratios of instate/out-of-state
students. Of these, the most likely choice to be taken seriously would be to
increase tuition. Because of the steady erosion in state appropriations and an
$11 million internal reallocation during the year prior to the five-year plan,
further programmatic budget cuts would probably do as much damage as




208


MARCH MEETING, 1985


would failure to address some of the expenditure requirements. Indeed there
is a very difficult situation confronting the University. While the University
has received a fairly generous recommendation from the governor, it appears
that the University faces one of the more difficult budget years ahead.
In conclusion, Vice President Frye commented that there will be some
extremely hard choices to be made by the executive officers and the Regents
with respect to addressing some of the needs that are essential to maintain
the quality of this institution, and the unpleasant choice of whether or not to
raise tuition.
Regent Nielsen indicated that he was opposed to any increase for instate
tuition because tuition was already too high. He asked for a budget model
that would keep instate tuition at the present level and raise out-of-state
tuition to 9%. Regent Smith concurred with this request.
President Shapiro commented that he wanted the Board to understand
that the challenge this institution is facing is to sustain the reputation of The
University of Michigan as one of the best universities in the nation and not
become just another institution. He said that there is no question that tuition
is high, but state support per student is inexcusably low. As the Commission
on Higher Education indicated, it would be a hoax on the future of this state
to have low cost, high access, poor quality education. The President said
that he agreed with the observation that next year and probably for another
two or three years, there will be very difficult choices to make. The
administration and the Regents will only be able to make them if a vision
about the future and nature of the University overcomes the frustrations and
inadequacies of the general support base.
Budget Planning, 1985-86, Flint Campus
Chancellor Jones then reviewed the budget plan for the Flint Campus.
The document follows the format of the Ann Arbor and Dearborn budgets.
He indicated that the governor's recommendation for the Flint Campus was
approximately $1 million less than the requested state appropriation of
$2,107,000. Revenues for the planning model include a 5% tuition increase,
a zero enrollment change, and revenue derived from such items as late
tuition payment fees.
Expenditures include a 5% basic salary program, plus an additional 1%
as a special faculty program to bring faculty salaries to a more competitive
position; a staff benefits increase of 5%; and a student aid recommendation
of 10%, plus 5% equivalant to the tuition rate increase. Utilities will be held
to a minimum because of the completion of the renovation of the central
energy plant, and program improvements, which is a very large category,
for such items as computing and instructional equipment. There are plans
also to improve the academic advising orientation program and institutional
research. If the classroom/laboratory building should be recommended for
funding by the legislature, there would be serious reconsideration of the
program improvement recommendation because there would be a need to
construct a parking structure on the Flint Campus.




MARCH MEETING, 1985


209


Budget Planning, 1985-86, Dearborn Campus
Chancellor Jenkins indicated that the 1985-86 incremental state request
for the Dearborn Campus was $2,227,000 and the governor's recommendation for the campus was $1,168,000 which would make it'necessary to raise
tuition from 5% to 7%, and assess a special laboratory fee for natural
sciences.
Expenditures for the Dearborn Campus would include a 5% salary
program for all personnel, plus a 2% program for full-time personnel only;
nonsalary accounts would be increased 5% at the rate of inflation; utilities
will need no increase because of the availability of unused funds from last
year; and an increase for the debt retirement. Program improvements were
adjusted in order to meet the lower state appropriation for these items.
Although UM-Dearborn has a number of needs, there will be a focus on
minority students and achieving accreditation for the School of Management. Facilities maintenance has fallen far behind, but will remain that way
for another year at least. Chancellor Jenkins also mentioned expenditures of
the small business institute, additional scholarships, and library automation
which would bring the total planning model to $1,684,000 and $95,000 out
of balance. He indicated that the budget could be balanced by increasing
tuition to 6%-7%, cutting back on meeting some of the needs.
In response to a question by Regent Varner, Chancellor Jenkins stated
that the program enhancement for the School of Management would include
a deanship position and an accounting position in order to fulfill the accreditation requirements for that school.
Regent Baker commented that he objected to operating on a deficit last
year, but this was done because the governor had asked that tuition not be
increased. Regent Baker said that he was not unwilling to support the
governor, but he did not agree that this institution should operate under a
deficit budget basis. In his view, the administration and the board have been
very successful in finding ways to accommodate the very real economic
difficulties that have beset the University and the state of Michigan. If a
balanced budget requires reducing costs or raising tuition, then that issue
must be addressed.
Vice President Frye indicated that when the deficit was budgeted last
year, it was emphatically stated that, if a suitable level of state support
would not become available, then the University would have no choice but
to pick up that deficit as part of the tuition increase. Regent Baker said that
the point he was making was that there cannot be a quality University of
Michigan if sufficient money is not received.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of February 14 and 15, 1985 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and the Replacement Hospital Project.




210


MARCH MEETING, 1985


Interim Vice President Sussman filed his monthly report on grants and
contracts for research.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice President Cosovich reported gifts from the following sources. They
were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Dwight S. Adams, Wayland, Massachusetts; for the Edward L. Adams Romance
Languages and Literatures Endowment in the College of Literature, Science
and  the  Arts fund....................................................  $5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds................ 51,460
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for research in the Medical School fund  24,283
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School fund...................................................... 97,486
American Lung Association, New York, New York; for research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  15,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship in
the College of Engineering fund........................................  15,520
Alfred C. Arbogast and Ersa S. Arbogast Foundation, Elkhart, Indiana; for neurology
research  in  the  Medical School fund.....................................  10,000
Ned S. Arbury, Midland; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan,
Campaign  for M ichigan  fund..........................................  5,000
Homer S. Arnold, Austin, Texas; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign fund....  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund.... 10,500
Dr. and Mrs. Gary Artinian, Bloomfield Hills; for the Alex Manoogian Chair in
Modem Armenian History, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund....  5,000
Mrs. John A. Barrett, Newberry; for unrestricted support of the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research Institute in
the  M edical School funds.............................................  5,000
Battle Creek Manufacturers, Inc., Battle Creek; for arthritis research in the Medical
School  fund.......................................................  5,000
Begole-Brownell Fund, Flint; for the Roy E. Brownell Fund, The University of
M ichigan-Flint  fund..................................................  5,000
Bell Laboratories, Naperville, Illinois; for telecommunications laboratory equipment
in  the  College  of Engineering  fund......................................  110,000
Bonisteel Foundation, East Grand Rapids; for the Bentley Library, Michigan Historical  Collections  fund..................................................  5,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois; for physiology research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  12,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  30,464
Carl P. Clare, Park Ridge, Illinois; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  5,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York; for research in
the  M edical School fund..............................................  17,500
Cox-Uphoff Corporation, Santa Barbara, California; for plastic surgery research in the
M edical  School  fund.................................................  7,200
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  8,700
D and R Fund, Chicago, Illinois; for the Samuel R. and Marie-Louise Rosenthal Fund
in the School of Business Administration and for the Tappan Hall Library Campaign  funds.........................................................  20,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  5,000
Peter Chris Dendrinos, Traverse City; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration  Campaign  fund.................................  30,500




MARCH MEETING, 1985


211


Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland; for fellowships and scholarships in the
College of Engineering fund...........................................  8,750
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland; Dow Chemical Company
common stock for the Dow Building, College of Engineering fund........... 999,992
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida; Keycon Industries, Inc.,
common stock; for unrestricted support of the Bentley and Clements Libraries,
and the Schools of Art, Library Science, and Music funds.................. 24,688
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  12,615
George S. Fischler, Newark, New Jersey; Penn Central Corporation preferred stock;
for the George S. Fischler deferred endowment for scholarships in the School of
Business Administration and College of Literature, Science and the Arts funds.. 42,188
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for support of the College of Engineering and
the Replacement Hospital Campaign funds............................... 225,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the Ford Fellowship in the College of Engineering  fund...........................................................  10,000
Ford Motor Company, Milan; for program support in the College of Engineering
fund...............................................................  7,000
Otto B. Gago, Ann Arbor; for the Replacement Hospital and Tappan Hall Library
Campaign  funds.....................................................  7,500
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for the General Motors Foundation accounts in the College of Engineering fund................................ 880,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for research in the School of Public Health
fund...............................................................  4 2,100
Clifton S. Goddin, Jr., Tulsa, Oklahoma; Standard Oil Company common stock, for
the Clifton S. Goddin, Jr. Unitrust, for scholarships in the College of Engineering
funds..............................................................  106,625
John F. Greene and Company, Littleton, Colorado; for geological sciences support in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.......................  5,000
GTE Service Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund..............................................................   7,750
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Hanson, Idaho Falls, Idaho; for the Paul G. Kauper
Professorship in the Law School, and for program support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts funds.......................  6,000
J. Ira Harris, Chicago, Illinois; International Busincss Machines Corporation common
stock, for the J. Ira Harris Fund in the School of Business Administration fund. 60,813
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for pharmacology research
in  the  M edical School fund............................................  18,900
Jean M. Heller, Long Beach, California; for the Jack J. Heller Memorial Scholarship
Endowment in the College of Engineering fund...........................  5,000
Mary M. Heller, Placentia, California; for the Jack J. Heller Memorial Scholarship
Endowment in the College of Engineering fund........................... 10,000
George Henry Hobart, Jr. Estate; for Academic Program Development, Office of
A dm issions  fund.....................................................  7,500
Hoffman Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the Tappan Hall Library Campaign
fund...............................................................  25,000
Alan F. Hunter, M.D., P.C., Marquette; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign
fund...............................................................  5,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; for Employee
M atching  G ifts  fund..................................................  13,980
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  10,000
Kelly Services, Detroit; for gifts pending designation in the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  50,000
Florence Kilworth Foundation, Tacoma, Washington; for nuclear medicine research in
the  M edical School  fund..............................................  5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
for patient care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals fund.........  7,416
Kresge Foundation, Troy; for the School of Business Administration Campaign Library   fund........................................................  1,400,000




212


MARCH MEETING, 1985


Kroc Foundation, Santa Barbara, California; for pharmacology research in the Medical School fund.................................................... 27,995
Jack Lapides, Ann Arbor; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign fund..........  5,000
Paul R. Lichter, Ann Arbor; for the Eye Center Campaign and William C. Grabb
Plastic Surgery Fund in the Medical School, and for unrestricted support of the
Museum of Art and WUOM/WVGR funds...............................     7,515
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana; for research in the Center for Research
on Learning and Teaching fund........................................  10,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the John D.
and Catherine T. MacArthur Fund, pending designation fund................ 300,000
Monroe D. MacPherson, Westfield, New Jersey; for program support in the College
of Engineering  fund..................................................  6,000
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham; Anheuser-Busch Companies common stock, for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and unrestricted
support of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
funds..............................................................  36,500
Curtis W. McGraw Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey; for the Arthur Webster
Memorial endowment in the Law School fund............................ 10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Endowment fund....................................................  9,233
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration  Campaign  fund.................................  15,000
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin E. Meader, Parchment; Upjohn Company common stock, for the
School of M usic  Campaign  fund........................................  107,063
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  10,000
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit; for Employee Matching Gifts fund... 13,956
Arthur A. Miller, Roxbury, Connecticut; for support of the creative writing program
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.....................  49,519
Rita Rossi and C. G. Miller, III, Dearborn; for the Joan Baskeyfield Memorial
Endowment in  the School of Nursing fund...............................  5,000
Thomas S. Monaghan Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Ensemble Theatre
Program  in  the  School of Music  fund....................................  15,000
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio; for unrestricted support of
the School of Business Administration Campaign fund......................  5,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
support of highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology
fu nd...............................................................  169,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor; for research in the Medical
School  fund.......................................................  14,944
Delbert D. Neis, M.D., P.C., Omaha, Nebraska; for the Replacement Hospital
C am paign  fund......................................................  5,000
Maud Z. Okkelberg Estate; Various securities, and a cash gift of $15,000; for the
Albert Lockwood Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music, and for the Peter
Olaus Okkelberg Endowed Award in the College of Literature, Science and the
A rts  funds..........................................................  46,194
Robert E. Pell, Sun City, Arizona; Real property located in Forester Township,
Sanilac County, Michigan; for the Arthur Young Professorship of Accounting
fund...............................................................  23,000
Mrs. Thorn Pendleton, Warren, Ohio; Indiana National Corporation, Lowenstein (M)
Corporation, and Pacific Telesis Group, common stocks, for the Helen and Mary
MacGregor Memorial Endowment, College of Literature, Science and the Arts
fu nd...............................................................  24,985
R and R Foundation, South Pasadena, California; for the Professor L. Hart Wright
Memorial Endowment in the Law School fund............................ 50,000
Henry King Ransom Estate; for the Henry King Ransom Endowed Professorship of
Law   fund..........................................................  12,100
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust, Niles; for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.....................  7,211




MARCH MEETING, 1985


213


Andrea and John Rich, Beverly Hills, California; for the John Rich Communication
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........... 10,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Springfield, Massachusetts; for the
Frank E. Robbins Memorial, Integrated Pre-Medical Curriculum in the Medical
School fund.......................................................  11,547
Frank H. Roberts, San Francisco, California; Intel Corporation common stock, for the
Professor L. Hart Wright Memorial Endowment in the Law School fund....... 10,305
Rugby Laboratories, Inc., Rockville Centre, New York; for research in the Medical
School  fund.......................................................  10,000
Robert P. Ruthruff, Ann Arbor; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and
for unrestricted support of the Chemical Sciences and Eye Center Campaigns and
the School of Dentistry  funds..........................................  10,000
Sage Foundation, Detroit; for sickle cell anemia research in the Medical School and
unrestricted support of the Law School funds............................. 12,500
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York; for population studies research in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........................  5,180
Sandoz, Inc., East Hanover, New Jersey; for research in the Medical School fund.  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Sars, Ann Arbor; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Annual and Campaign Programs, and of the Center for
Fitness and Sports Research  funds......................................  15,000
Professor and Mrs. Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor; for program support in the
M useum   of  Art  fund................................................  5,000
Henry Schein, Inc., Port Washington, New York; for research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  10,0 00
Harold M. Shapero, Southfield; for the Samuel and Harold M. Shapero Law Student
L oan   fund.........................................................  7,500
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts; for unrestricted support of the College of
Engineering  fund....................................................  5,000
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas; for program support in the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  15,000
Howard F. and Judith Sims, Detroit; for the Howard and Judith Sims Scholarship in
the College of Architecture and Urban Planning fund.......................  5,000
Roger B. Smith, Bloomfield Hills; General Motors Corporation restricted common
stock, for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign
fu nd...............................................................  5,0 13
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas; Standard Oil of Indiana, and Intrawest Financial Corporation common stocks, for Geological sciences support in the College of
Literature, Science  and  the  Arts fund....................................  5,308
George E. Sperling, Jr., Pebble Beach, California; for the George E. and Elizabeth
Sperling Endowment in the Law  School fund.............................  22,000
Robert A. Straub, Ann Arbor; CSX Corporation common stock, for scholarships in
the  Department of Athletics  fund.......................................  6,416
Time, Inc., New York, New York; for fellowships in the School of Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds...........................  5,500
Times Mirror Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the Journalists in Residence
Endowment in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........... 50,000
Times Publishing Company, Saint Petersburg, Florida; for the Journalists in Residence
Endowment in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........... 10,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the TRW Faculty Assistanceship in the College  of Engineering  fund..............................................  15,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Sara Browne Smith Group; for
alumnae  scholarships  fund.............................................  5,198
Harold and Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo; for the Eye Center Campaign
fund...............................................................  20,000
Lawrence R. Van Til, Grosse Pointe; Nabisco Brands and Pfizer, common stocks, for
the Professor L. Hart Wright Memorial Endowment in the Law School fund....  5,082
Mr. and Mrs. Ame Vennema, Houston, Texas; Schlumberger, Limited common
stock, for the Ame and Catherine Vennema Endowed Professorship in the Cellege
of  Engineering  fund..................................................  147,500




214


MARCH MEETING, 1985


Burton J. Vincent, Chicago, Illinois; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  fund..................................................  7,000
Howard A. Welch, Jr., Chicago, Illinois; for the Arthur Andersen Accounting Professorship in the School of Business Administration, and for unrestricted support of
the Law  School funds................................................  6,000
Whiting Foundation, Flint; for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research fund......  5,000
Conson C. Wilson Estate; for the Conson C. Wilson Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and  the Arts fund.............................................  6,692
Leon and Josephine Winkelman Foundation, Detroit; for the Isadore and Leon Winkelman Endowed Chair in Retailing, School of Business Administration fund...  16,250
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Mark L. and Suzanne Callaghan, Marquette. An undivided one-quarter interest in
parcel number one, Saux Head Pointe, Powell Township, Marquette County,
Michigan; for the Medical School
Charles W. Carey, Saginaw. A Xerox 2600 copier and 10 boxes of toner; for the
School of Dentistry
Les and Tony Dyer, Marquette. An undivided one-quarter interest in parcel number
one, Saux Head Pointe, Powell Township, Marquette County, Michigan; for the
Medical School
John G. Garlinghouse, Grosse Pointe Farms. A four-volume set of Blackstone's
Commentaries, First Edition (1765-69); for the Law School Library
General Electric Company, Fort Wayne, Indiana. A Programmable Motor; for the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Edward Herremans, Belmont. A Masterkey-230 Timesharing business system; for the
Department of Orthodontics
Madeline H. Irwin, Ann Arbor. 37 multi-colored fabric banners; for the Alumni Center
Richard H. Jahns, Traverse City. A Flying Scot sailboat with trailer, spinnaker gear,
and two sets of sails; for Camp Michigania
J.A.K. Productions, Royal Oak. Video and film equipment; for the Program in Film
and Video Studies
John A. Jansma, Solana Beach, California. A Randyll Miseph ceramic vessel and a
display pedestal; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
James V. McConnell, Ann Arbor. A coin collection representing approximately 99
countries and the 18th to 20th centuries; for the James V. McConnell Fund in
the Department of Psychology
Gilbert Pepitone, Dearborn Heights. A 1972 Pinto electric car; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, School of Engineering
Rainbow Creations, Northville. A miniature putting pad; for Mott Children's Hospital
Spectradyne, Inc., Dearborn Heights. Ten Sony videocassette players; for Michigan Media
William and Electra Stamelos, Hartland. An Aviva Robinson painting entitled: "Folds
and Shadows, #6"; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
Herbert L. Tillman, Warren; and Robert L. Tillman, Saline. A Cladocyclus fossil
fish specimen; for the Museum of Paleontology
Vice President Cosovich reviewed his report on development and
communication.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
John R. Barker, Ph.D., Professor of Athmospheric and Oceanic Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, April 15, 1985




MARCH MEETING, 1985


215


Susan M. Burt, Director of Sponsored Research and Development, promoted to Associate Vice
Chancellor for Sponsored Research and Development, UM-Dearborn, March 15, 1985
Russell N. DeJong, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the Department of
Neurology, January 1, 1985
John Harer, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, September 1, 1985
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Harry H. Blecker, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Chemistry
Department, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Lynn Conway, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Dean of the College of Engineering for a three-year term, April 1, 1985
John F. Greden, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, appointed Chairman of the Department of
Psychiatry, March 1, 1985
William A. Jenkins, Professor of Education, with tenure, reappointed Chancellor of UMDearborn, for a three-year term
Ludwig Koenen, Professor of Papyrology, with tenure, appointed Chairman of the Department
of Classical Studies, for a five-year term
Richard Owen Lempert, Professor of Law, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Sociology,
without tenure, September 1, 1985
President Shapiro commented that he wished to present a recommendation to the Board concerning the reappointment of Chancellor Jenkins for a
three-year term. He said that he would like to take this opportunity to thank
Chancellor Jenkins for his leadership during these past five years and to say
how much he personally looks forward to working with him in the future.
The President said that he presented this recommendation with great enthusiasm. The Regents unanimously approved the appointment.
Chancellor Jenkins remarked that he would like to thank the President
and the Board of Regents for their vote of confidence.
The Regents unanimously approved the establishment of a named professorship, the L. Hart Wright Professorship in the Law School.
The Regents unanimously approved the establishment of a new academic
administrative position, Associate Dean in the College of Engineering.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Visiting Professor
Subhasm M. Kanetkar, Ph.D., Chemistry
Neils C. Lind, Ph.D., Civil Engineering, February 1, 1985
Visiting Associate Professor
Anthony J. Gharrett, Ph.D., Biological Sciences, January 21, 1985
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Elizabeth A. Youngblood, M.F.A., Art
Adjunct Lecturer
Hiroko S. Akiyama, Ph.D., Community Health Programs
Carol S. Applegate, M.A., Education, UM-Flint




216


MARCH MEETING, 1985


Thomas E. Borton, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Alan N. Dengiz, M.D., Community Health Programs
Norman J. Dombrowski, M.B.A., Management, UM-Flint
Cynthia Espinosa, M.A., Romance Languages and Literatures, January 21, 1985
John E. Ettlie, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Molly R. Gates, M.S., Nursing, September 1, 1984
Edward B. Goldman, B.A., J.D., Medical Care Organization
Patricia A. Helzerman, B.S.N., Nursing
James R. Levenick, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
George I. Liljeblad, B.S., Resource and Community Science, UM-Flint
Bruce D. Lixey, B.A., Program in Film and Video Studies
Vera E. Milz, ED.D., Education, UM-Dearborn
Theresa M. Murray, A.M., History, UM-Flint
Richard F. Stoll, M.S., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Clinical Instructor
James L. Adams, M.D., Ophthalmology
Steven J. Card, D.D.S., Dentistry, February 18, 1985
Anne R. Dimitry, B.S., Pharmacy, February 1, 1985
Paramjeet K. Kochhar, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, February 1, 1985
Martin A. Lulek, B.S., Pharmacy, February 15, 1985
Dalton P. Sanders, D.D.S., Dentistry
Dennis W. Wahr, M.D., Internal Medicine, November 1, 1984
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
John Hebert, III, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Antonio J. Rodriguez, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance, UM-Flint
Douglas E. Van Houweling, Vice-Provost for Information Technology and Adjunct Professor
of Computer and Information Systems, also appointed Adjunct Professor of Political Science
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Robert O. Friedel, Chairman and Professor of Psychiatry and Executive Director of Mental
Health Research Institute, February 28, 1985
Lee D. Gorsky, Lecturer of Biological Chemistry, March 15, 1985
Evelyn Tomlin, Assistant Professor of Nursing, December 31, 1984
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
There were no retirement memoirs submitted to the Regents this month.
VII. MEMORIALS
There were no deaths reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering
Mechanical Engineering, August, 1981




MARCH MEETING, 1985


217


add: Juliete Renay Ward, B.Mech.Engr., University of Detroit
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Science Geology, December, 1984
add: David Kazuo Narahara, B.S., State University of New York at Albany
Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering
Civil Engineering, December, 1984
add: Susan Joanne Penoyar, B.S.E.
Mechanical Engineering, December, 1984
add: Joseph Georges Sahiouni, B.S.E.
School of Education
Master of Arts Education, December, 1984
correct to show: Thelma Lee Peterson Bell, A.B., Wayne State University, M.S.W.,
Ibid
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: Lotte Mavis Langer with Distinction
Margaret Ann Schmid
Bachelor in General Studies, April 27, 1984
add: Vincent Kennedy Shaw
Bachelor of Arts, December 21, 1984
add: Daniel Alan Blackman
Todd Steven McGovern
Paula Lynn Shalling
Susan Lynn Thal
correct to show: Joel Edward Dippold with Distinction; Honors in Asian Studies
Andrea Mary Ferrara with Distinction
Hector Joaquin Inchaustegui
Carl Joseph Wexel with High Distinction
delete: Mark Steven Shustak
Bachelor of Science, December 21, 1984
add: Anita Louise Boehm
Catherine Diane Guidot
Bruce Robert Reid
correct to show: Thomas Dale Freese
Bachelor in General Studies, December 21, 1984
add: Caroline Marie Bridges
Brian Timothy Burgin
Raymer W.C. McQuiston
School of Music
Master of Music, December, 1984
correct to show: Kari Louise Peterson, B.S., Concordia Teachers College, Music Education
School of Public Health
Master of Public Health, August, 1984
correct to show: Paula Ann Bank, B.S., D.V.M., Michigan State University
Ava A. Kaufman, B.A., Yale University, M.D., Case Western Reserve
University
University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Management Bachelor of Science in Administration, December 19, 1984
correct to show: Ann Marie Czestkowski
The Regents approved the recommendation to confer two honorary
degrees at commencements during the academic year 1985-86.
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the December Commencement for the Law School.




218


MARCH MEETING, 1985


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
The item concerning the library/learning resource center on the University of Michigan-Flint Riverfront Campus was withdrawn.
Public Radio Station, UM-Flint
Approval of the revised construction budget for the FM Public Radio
Station at UM-Flint was moved by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent
Brown and adopted.
School of Business Administration Executive Dormitory
Regent Varner moved to authorize proceeding with the financing of the
executive dormitory for the School of Business Administration and to adopt
the following resolution. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion and it was
adopted:
RESOLVED, that the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized and directed
to proceed with a program for financing the construction cash flow requirements for the School
of Business Administration-Executive Dormitory project and in particular, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, that the Vice President and Chief Financial officer be authorized
and directed as follows:
1. together with John Nuveen & Company, Inc. to develop the terms for the bonds, and to
prepare and circulate a preliminary official statement or circular, describing the Management Education Program bond issue and the University and its affairs; and
2. to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3. to apply for and obtain insurance coverage, if considered beneficial, for the timely
payment of annual principal and interest, and the balloon maturity (this would benefit the
University with an instrument which would sell as though it were rated AAA and thereby
reduce the interest cost to the University); and
4. to obtain from John Nuveen & Company, Inc. a final proposal for the Bonds, including
price and interest rates, which final proposal would be submitted to the Board of Regents
for its approval and acceptance.
Liquor License Applications
Regent Roach moved to approve the application to the Liquor Control
Commission for conference center liquor licenses for the School of Business
Administration Executive Residence and the Inglis House. Regent Smith
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
JMB III Investments
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to participate in Endowment and Foundation Realty, Ltd., JMB III. He explained that the University is a participant, along with many other institutions of higher education
and foundations, in JMB I and II. JMB III is postured in the same general
fashion in order to meet the particular requirements of a tax exempt organization in such investments. The University is involved in two other such
investments, Prudential and Property Capital Trust. It is recommended that
$1 million of endowment funds be allocated for investment in JMB III.




MARCH MEETING, 1985


219


Regent Smith indicated that she has discussed these investments with
Norman Herbert, and it is her understanding that JMB I and II are both ten
year trusts. The JMB III is a fifteen-year real estate trust, but in looking at
the net income to the investor, it seems very low compared to other
investment opportunities that are available at this time. She said that she
could not support this recommendation.
Regent Nielsen commented that in looking at the total investment portfolio and the amounts of monies that have been generated from that, the sums
of money that have been returned on the various investments have been less
than adequate considering the market place and what other financial institutions seem to be accomplishing. With respect to the JMB III proposal, he
questioned whether the University could do better and still have the type of
appreciation that is available in some of the other investment trusts that are
available. Regent Nielsen then asked if it would be possible to hold this item
until next month in order to review some other proposals.
Regent Roach noted that this real estate investment has out-performed on
a total return basis the University's investments in either stocks or bonds
over the last two years. He agreed that the item should be tabled a month
and brought back with the investment report to look at the whole question.
He said that he was comfortable that when the decision was made to invest
in real estate, opportunity stocks, covered options, and buy write that the
University needed to do that to enhance the total investment return. Markets
do change and the Regents, as trustees, have to invest the funds to the best
advantage of the University. Investing in real estate was carefully considered
at the time and compared to the kinds of real estate investment opportunities
available, and the JMB program was appropriate for the University.
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that the item will be brought back
to the Regents following further review.
Regent Baker observed that this University operates in investing under a
prudent man rule and that means that the Regents have a trustees' fiduciary
responsibility in a legal sense for the funds of this University. Historically
the Regents have taken that mandate very seriously, and have been extremely careful about the investments and the risks of the investments, and
do not easily undertake higher risk investments. A number of studies were
undertaken during the last few years so that investments, within the constraints of the prudent man concept could be made in opportunity situations.
He cautioned his colleagues that they not think the decisions are made
frivolously or without professional counsel, or legal review. While one
may like or dislike a particular investment, on balance one should rely
on the administration's recommendations in these matters. He said that
he had no objection, however, to holding action for a month for further
consideration.
Regent Varner commented that the kind of investments that JMB would
be making would be in very prime real estate, and the way these investments
work is that one would get 5% or 6% in the early years, but over a period of
time they become very good investments and as such are not a high risk
investment.




220


MARCH MEETING, 1985


Additions to Common Stock Master List
Regent Brown moved to approve the addition of Masco Industries
common stock to the University's master list. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Real Property
Regent Roach moved to accept the offer of $25,000 from Wade and Jim
Johnson for the surface rights of a parcel of land in Harris Township,
Menominee County, Michigan, subject to the University's reservation of the
mineral rights. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Oil and Gas Leases
The request to approve an oil and gas lease with Resource Design
Corporation in Cleveland County, Oklahoma, was moved by Regent Baker,
seconded by Regent Roach and adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve an oil and gas lease with Amoco
Production Company in Mason Township, Arenac County, Michigan. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
City of Ann Arbor Easement Request
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request for a scenic easement
from the City of Ann Arbor in terms of some unbuildable property that the
University owns located on the North Campus at Glacier Way and Huron
Parkway. Following further discussion, it was recommended that various
alternatives should be considered before action is taken. The item will be
returned for regental consideration in April.
Land Conveyance
Regent Baker moved to authorize a conveyance of land, as described, to
the First Congregational Church of Ann Arbor, Michigan. Regent Roach
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations
Regent Roach moved to approve the Medical Science Building I renovation for wet laboratory space for the Pulmonary Division; the Department of
Microbiology and Immunology Renovation project; and the Mott Cardiovascular Laboratories Modernization. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Certificate of Need Application, UM Hospitals Computers
Regent Brown moved to approve a Certificate of Need application for
Phase II of the UM Hospitals strategic computer plans, including the acquisition of computer hardware/software after receipt of the involved Certificate
of Need. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.




MARCH MEETING, 1985


221


UM   Hospitals Semi-Annual Accounts Receivable Report
The Regents received the University of Michigan Hospitals semi-annual
accounts receivable report.
X. OTHER
Bylaws Revisions, Sections 5.19(1), (4)
Approval of the revision of Sections 5.19(1) and (4) of the Regents'
Bylaws was moved by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith and
adopted. The entire Bylaw as revised follows:
Sec. 5.19. Retirement of the President, Faculty and Executive Officers
1. Subject to the other provisions of this section, the term of service of the President, the
executive officers, and the members of the faculties shall terminate no later than the end of the
fiscal year in which their seventieth birthday occurs.
2. Subject to the provisions of subsection 3, the President, the executive officers and the
members of the professorial staff appointed prior to January 1, 1984, during the last year
preceding retirement shall be relieved of normal responsibilities and may be called upon to act
in a consulting capacity to the President, executive officers, deans or department heads, or to
conduct research in the individual's field of interest unless otherwise specifically provided by
the Board, and the salary during this period shall be the regular annual salary. This year
preceding termination of service is hereinafter referred to as the "terminal furlough" year.
Individuals appointed on or after January 1, 1984, are not eligible for the terminal furlough
year.
3. The terminal furlough year shall not be available unless, the individual (a) has been
employed by the University at least ten years prior to the effective date of the terminal furlough;
and (b) has not taken a sabbatical leave during the past four years next preceding the effective
date of the terminal furlough. A person covered by this section but ineligible for the terminal
furlough year will continue to carry normal responsibilities in the University until retirement.
4. A person eligible for a terminal furlough year under subsections 2 and 3 above may not
begin such terminal furlough year until the beginning of the next academic term following his
or her sixty-second birthday.
5. Emeritus status appropriate to the office or rank shall be granted at the date of full
retirement.
6. No person retired under this section of the Bylaws may be reemployed by the University
in any capacity except by express action of the Board. The term of appointment for any
reemployment shall not exceed one fiscal year and may be renewed only be action of the Board.
David Connell Resolution
The Regents approved a Regents' Resolution for David Connell, M.A.
1956, Vice President and Executive Producer of the Children's Television
Workshop.
RHP Proposal Package Awards
Regent Baker approved the award of components 1, 2, and 4 of Proposal
Package #C3A, AGH Nurse Call/Multi-Intercom System/Overhead Sound,
to Dukane Corporation, St. Charles, Illinois; Multi-Comm, Inc., Livonia,
Michigan; and Medtronex, Inc., Bridgeview, Illinois; a Joint Venture; and
upon technical acceptance by Program Management, the award of component 3 of Proposal Package #C3A, Single Channel Intercom, to Sound
Engineering Company, Livonia, Michigan. Regent Nielsen seconded the
motion and it was adopted.




222


MARCH MEETING, 1985


RHP Construction Contract
Regent Baker moved to approve the award of a construction contract for
Bid Package $14C, Sitework, to Freeman-Darling, Inc., of Livonia, Michigan. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Small Business Start-Up Contract
Regent Nielsen moved to authorize employees of The University of
Michigan, Professors John C. Drach and Leroy B. Townsend, to negotiate a
contractual arrangement with Small Business Start-Up with the understanding that the University's acceptance of such a contract will be contingent
upon Regental approval of the resulting terms. Regent Smith seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Nuclear Weapons Debate
Regent Baker noted a national debate surrounds the United States'
possession of nuclear weapons. The debate also ebbs and flows through The
University of Michigan. This vital topic is properly          debated  within the
University.
A weakness of the debate is that it has been one-sided. The full spectrum of opinions on this
issue has not been heard on our campus. Why all opinions have not been heard is unclear.
However, I am less than sanguine with the extension of the one-sided discussion as evidenced
by three recent campus occurrences.
First, is the ongoing stream of press releases to the media and others from the University
news service reflecting the "activist" view of those prolific writers and speakers on the subject
whose views usually describe possession of nuclear weapons as an exercise in hopelessness for
the United States. Those individuals frequently seem to advocate unilateral disarmament by the
United States in order to avoid destruction of the planet.
Second, Dr. Helen Caldicott, speaking in the Rackham Auditorium at the invitation of the
University of Michigan School of Public Health voiced again the opinion that the world with
nuclear weapons is without hope. She is quoted as saying about her own activist experience,
"Have we stopped one bomb from being built?... I feel like weeping all the time right now... We are all about to die."
Third, and most important, was the extension of the theme of hopelessness and an implied
call for unilateral disarmament by the Michigan Alumnus in its January/February 1985 issue on
the general subject entitled "Nuclear Arms and National Security." The Alumnus dedicated
thirty-plus pages to the well-documented danger of the nuclear bomb and zero pages to the need
for preservation of human freedom. The magazine overlooked humanity's constant battle for
freedom, often at the cost of an individual's life, as a principal design in the tapestry of human
history.
In various public debates concerning nuclear weapons over several years, I have tried to
widen the discussion and to direct the dialogue away from the question, "Will we all die in the
mushroom cloud?" to other vital questions which, in my view, must be answered by the
American people if a consensus position is to develop on the issue of nuclear weapons. In my
view the most critical question is: Should we, the people of the United States, defend the free
and democratic society in the muclear age?
When we seek answers to these questions we, as a nation, must consider the price of human
freedom and the cost of human slavery. Clearly stated, that price of human freedom is the risk
of a devastated earth and possible destruction of the world order as we know it today. A sense
of the cost of human slavery can be found in review of an important new book describing life in
this country after surrender of the United States during an international crisis and America's
occupation by the Soviet Union's Armed Forces. The authors assume the United States citizens
were so thoroughly disarmed and confused by the rhetoric of the "We are all about to die"
prophets and others that the government surrenders rather than go to war to protect the people's
freedom. The following review of What to Do When the Russians Come: A Survivor's Guide
appeared in the Wall Street Journal on March 12, 1985:




MARCH MEETING, 1985                                223
As nuclear arms reduction talks begin in Geneva, Switzerland, many voices in this
country, particularly in journalism, academe and Congress, are saying that President
Reagan's position in these talks is too tough, too provocative and insufficiently trusting
of the Soviets. His defense budget is too high, the strategic defense initiative, or "star
wars," is a bad idea and Soviet expansionism in Central America is something that need
not concern us.
Implicit in this posture is a basic question: "What is so terrible about Soviet
domination that we should get so tough about fighting it?"
It is a stunning indictment of the U.S. intellectual elite that this question lingers,
even implicitly, among the ruling circles of this country. (It is far more understandable
that a Hollywood producer would tell me she thinks a Soviet-dominated U.S. would be
"about the same: as the "repression" we have now, or that a California girl would ask
me if she could still get Estee Lauder perfume if the Russians took over.) But now, there
is a book to answer any serious person who thinks there is too much fuss being made
about even the slightest prospect of Soviet domination.
What to Do When the Russians Come: A Survivor's Guide by Robert Conquest
and Jon Manchip White (Stein & Day, 177 pages, $14.95) is a startling account of what
to expect in the U.S. if we become so spineless that the Soviets take us over through
limited war, political blackmail or gradual subversion.
Mr. Conquest, a foreign-affairs expert at Stanford University's Hoover Institution,
and Mr. White, a University of Tennessee English professor and sometime comrade of
the Afghan mujahedeen rebels, have carefully investigated daily life in the many
countries that have been swallowed up by communism since 1917. Their talk about what
to expect is not theoretical. It is right down in the street, brutal and straight:
In the immediate aftermath of Soviet conquest, they write: "Rape could be a major
problem.The usual procedure is for groups of five or six soldiers, or sometimes more, to
enter the house, hold the males at gunpoint, and rape the females... a willingness to
co-operate with the Soviet Army does not carry with it immunity from rape...."
Based on the historical record, Messrs. Conquest and White estimate that about 5%
of the males may be shot almost immediately. Another 25% will be deported to
forced-labor campus in a North American gulag, probably in the Arctic uranium mines
of Canada (which will also be Sovietized). Selection for these campus will be based
partly upon such credentials as military service, having been a teacher, a businessman, a
rabbi, a minister, a politician or simply showing such insolence as asking for more
rations. Also, many people will be swept up randomly.
Once at the campus, few will survive. There will be brutal work, little food,
inadequate clothing and no medical care. The slightest infraction will be punished either
by shooting or by placement in "punishment cells" of concrete without windows,
blankets, bed, toilet, light or heat. Survival in such a cell is highly problematic.
In a country such as the U.S., where women tend to be outspoken and many hold
leadership posts, many mothers as well as fathers can expect to be taken away for forced
labor or execution. Children will become street urchins, roaming around in packs, or
will be sent to state foster homes, which will be little else than forced-labor camps for
juveniles. Families that have not been broken up will in many cases have no choice but
to crowd, several at a time, into close quarters once reserved for a single family. The
children in these groups will be taught by the state to inform upon their parents and will
be rewarded according to how severely the parents are punished.
Even for those who are "at liberty," there will be endless surveillance, short
rations, no telephones, no cars, no private medical care, no political or civil rights.
Arrest, interrogation, execution or deportation will be common for reasons as unavoidable as plain bad luck. There will be no legal recourse in such situation.
Messrs. Conquest and White go through a long list of occupations and personality
types-from "ecologist" to "sadist"-to show what will happen to different classes.
For example, ecologists who protest any state project, especially nuclear power, will be
deported. Sadists will find plenty of appealing work in prisons. Even domestic communists will be in grave danger, since problems of the Soviet occupation will be blamed on
them first.
There will be partisans at the beginning, the Rocky Mountains and the swamps of
Louisiana, but they will be brutally suppressed. Yet even the total subjugation of that
country will not bring peace. There probably will be war against China-possibly with




224                       MARCH MEETING, 1985
nuclear exchanges-and Americans may be sent in penal battalions to fight for the
Vietnamese against the Chinese.
For many there will be death with a bullet in the back of the neck. For others, there
will be a life of grinding, featureless deprivation and misery. The living may envy the
dead.
If there is truly such a thing as must reading, reading that is crucial for the future of
humanity, What to Do When the Russians Come is that book. Read it and weep.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
February totaled $3,016.82
The Regents adjourned to meet on April 18 and 19, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




APRIL MEETING, 1985
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 18, 1985
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Nielsen and Interim Vice President
Sussman were absent. Associate Vice President Alan Price attended the
meeting for Dr. Sussman.
CESF Report, Ann Arbor
The President called the meeting to order and indicated that the first item
on the agenda would be the Committee on the Economic Status of the
Faculty (CESF) reports for the Ann Arbor and Dearborn Campuses. The
Flint Campus would present their report in May. Beth Reed, Associate
Professor of Social Work, would make the presentation for the Ann Arbor
Campus.
Professor Reed introduced Joan Crary of the Economics Department,
who provided invaluable assistance in formulating the tables, tracking the
figures, and translating them. In general, Professor Reed indicated that there
were four points that were of concern: (1) The average faculty salaries at The
University of Michigan had fallen to 92% of the average salary of the
average private peer institutions. Salaries are still competitive with the
public institution peers, although they have declined slightly. (2) Full professors, who comprise 55% of the total University instructional faculty, have
lost the most ground relative to peers. This seems to be related partially to
the reduced mobility of a substantial number in this group. (3) In principle,
CESF supports the merit award salary program and understands the need to
meet market pressures, but believes that there have been insufficient funds
for a fully-funded merit program when a substantial proportion of the money
allocated for salary increases is used to meet market demands. (4) It is
expected that serious morale and retention consequences will arise from
these inequities, especially in the substantial portion of faculty whose increases are low relative to their merit performance, and for those whose
level of compensation is adequate now, but will fall behind as they attain
senior faculty status.
For comparisons, the same ten private universities and the six public
universities were used as in last year's presentation: Stanford, Yale, Northwestern, Chicago, Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, Cornell, MIT, and Pennsylvania, and Illinois, Indiana, Purdue, Wisconsin, the California system,
and Minnesota respectively.
Professor Reed then reviewed the tables that were presented. She commented that the committee realized that the University must weigh competing demands for resources in the face of inadequate funding from the state.
225




226


APRIL MEETING, 1985


However, it is concerned that the short-term cost of inadequate faculty
salary increases is mounting and believes that the longer-term consequences
need to be carefully considered as well. There has been continued improvement for associate and assistant professors, but full professors have shown
no gain in salary position relative to the ten private schools. The committee
was concerned that the merit system was being superceded by a system that
rewards mobility, especially in certain areas, which in the long-term could
mean that it will become more difficult to retain quality faculty.
Professor Reed then reviewed the table which suggested alternative
programs. She indicated that the committee realized that it was unlikely that
The University would be able to completely close the gap between the
average salary at The University of Michigan and the average of the ten
privately-supported peer institutions in just three years. The committee
recommended, however, that the University consider a budget which would
include a sufficient salary program to prevent further deterioration in the
relative average salary as a minimum, and hoped it would be possible to
make some progress in recovering its salary position with respect to peers in
the next three years.
The Regents indicated that they were aware of and sympathetic to the
compensation problems that have existed over the last several years. The
Regents will continue their efforts, as they have in the past, to make faculty
salaries more comparable with peer institutions.
Other questions arose concerning rationalizing salary percentages of
institutions with specialized schools, such as medicine and law, with those
institutions without these schools; the increasing concern of the faculty with
respect to funds allocated for merit increases which are being used instead to
meet market demands.
CESF Report, UM-Dearborn
Professor Donald Anderson, chairman of CESF for the Dearborn Campus, then reviewed the report for that campus. He commented that the
Regents and administration responded to a concern expressed by the faculty
last year about Dearborn's relative status in the state by approving a respectable salary increase; however, the disturbing fact was that, according to the
AAUP preliminary figures, the standing of the campus with respect to other
IIA institutions did not appear to change.
Professor Anderson highlighted a few points in the report which compared the Dearborn Campus to the Flint Campus. An attempt was made to
compare statistics for the engineering and nursing programs which might be
an indication of how far Dearborn was behind Flint with respect to salaries.
The programs, however, were not comparable and were not included in the
report. The faculty felt that minor increments every year would not provide
the parity they were seeking. To alleviate the problem the committee
recommended that the Regents and executive officers allocate a substantial,
one-time increase for salaries amounting to approximately $545,000. If this
kind of an effort was not made, Dearborn would continue to lag behind Flint
and other IIA institutions.
Professor Anderson then mentioned productivity differences and matters
relating to capital expenditures and debt. Although there are some productiv



APRIL MEETING, 1985


227


ity differences between the Flint and Dearborn campuses, they are not as
great as sometimes stated. He said that there is a feeling among the faculty
that it is wrong for them to basically pay for some of the buildings on
campus through reduced salaries, and they hoped that the Regents and
executive officers would recognize this problem.
In conclusion, Professor Anderson said that the prospect of losing good
faculty or not being able to attract faculty is not a problem for the future, it
is a problem that Dearborn has been facing yearly. It is hoped that the
Regents will continue to recognize the particular problems at Dearborn and
will work toward their alleviation.
In response to a question with respect to funds for buildings operations
causing lower salaries, President Shapiro indicated that it was not just a
question of operation of the buildings, it was also a question of financing the
debt. The operations are covered separately, but all three campuses have
constructed capital facilities using general-purpose university debt. That
obviously has an impact on the general fund whether it is competitive with
salaries or other expenditures. The Dearborn Campus has a greater debt
burden than either the Ann Arbor or Flint campuses because the University
has been unable to obtain private donors or state capital outlay expenditures
for that campus to the same extent as the other campuses. It is not clear,
however, whether that impacts directly on the faculty.
1985-86 Budget
President Shapiro indicated that since there was no further information
on the state budget, there was nothing new to report to the Regents. A series
of recommendations will be presented at the next meeting including the
Health Service fee, Michigan Student Assembly fee, and some issues concerning the recreational sports program.
The president repeated the admonition that there would be a very difficult budget year ahead if the state appropriation remains at the level the
governor has recommended. The administration is hopeful that the research
excellence fund will be adopted and passed by the legislature. That decision
could impact quite substantially on the budget, depending, of course, on
where the funds would be allocated and for what purposes they may or may
not be used. He said he hoped there would be further information to report
at the May meeting.
Regent Baker asked if the surplus funds that reputedly exist in Lansing
would be devoted to higher education.
President Shapiro commented that there seems to be some possibility
that either the House or the Senate may try to increase the appropriation for
higher education this year. It may have a direct effect on the operating
budget, but there has not been much progress in that area because the
legislature has been in recess for most of the last month.
Regent Baker remarked that in the political structure of this state almost
every group is organized on an interest basis to present their views, but
higher education does not seem to have a strong constituency. Interested
parties should voice their concern to their legislator to have higher education
supported at a higher level than it is now because of its importance to the
state.




228


APRIL MEETING, 1985


The president commented that one of the major concerns over the last
several years has been the preference of the voters of Michigan for tax
decreases rather than support of public services such as higher education. It
is not known whether the citizens of Michigan will vote for restoring public
services, particularly higher education, to a more appropriate level of support or whether they would rather take the surplus out in the form of a tax
reduction. Those decisions will have an enormous impact on what recommendations are brought to the Board with respect to tuition for next year as
well as many other aspects of the budget.
Regent Roach noted that the Survey Research Center's endeavors in
connection with the Commission on the Future of Higher Education indicates that the public in Michigan supports education in general including
higher education, and ranks it as a priority item. The government in Lansing
is reflecting that support to some degree by the budget increases for education, particularly higher education, as the only area to receive increases for
1986. The message must continually be carried to Lansing that the public is
willing to pay for good colleges and universities.
I. MINUTES
Approval of the minutes was deferred until Friday in order for the
Regents to review the substantial additions that have been made.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also filed a report on non-competitive purchases
over $1,000 from single sources.
Interim Vice President Sussman placed on file a report on grants and
contracts for research.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice President Cosovich reported gifts from the following sources. They
were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
A. S. Abell Publishing Company, Baltimore, Maryland; for the Journalists in Residence Program, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund............. $5,000
Air Products Foundation, Allentown, Pennsylvania; for the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering funds.........................  5,000
Mrs. Wyeth Allen, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; General Motors Corporation common
stock; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan, Campaign For
Michigan fund......................................................  20,275
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds............... 58,788
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the
Medical School fund.................................................  12,635
American Natural Resources Company, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign fund...............................  5,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the Amoco Foundation Good Teaching
Award, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds........................... 14,310
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund....  21,745




APRIL MEETING, 1985


229


Robert Arthur Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund.  29,897
Blade Foundation, Toledo, Ohio; for the Journalists in Residence Program, College of
Literature, Science and the Arts fund....................................  12,500
Paul and Dina Block Foundation, Toledo, Ohio; for the Journalists in Residence
Program, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..................  12,500
Borman's, Inc. Fund, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration Campaign fund......................................... 40,000
Boston Globe Foundation, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts; for the Journalists in Residence Program, College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund............. 25,000
Margaret L. Brown, New York, New York; Dome Mines Limited, Homestake Mining
Company, Polaroid Corporation, and Sun Company common stocks; for the
George Granger Brown Memorial in the College of Engineering fund......... 205,013
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit; for Employee Matching Gifts fund..............  6,672
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration Campaign fund........................................  20,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  15,232
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; for the School of Business Administration
Associates Program, and for The University of Michigan-Dearborn funds...... 12,500
Colorcon, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania; for support of the College of Pharmacy
fund...............................................................  6,803
Comerica, Inc., Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund................... 30,520
Cox Enterprises, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia; for the Journalists in Residence Program,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund........................... 60,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Rockville, Maryland; for research in the Medical School
and  in  the  College  of Pharmacy  funds...................................  10,181
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration  Campaign  fund.........................................  10,000
Michael Dively, Traverse City; Harris Corporation common stock; for unrestricted
support of the  Law  School fund........................................  5,025
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee
M atching  G ifts  fund..................................................  8,280
Erico, Inc., Tulsa, Okalahoma; for geological sciences support in the College of
Literature, Science and  the Arts fund....................................  20,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  5,025
Iris M. Fauri, Ann Arbor; for the Fedele F. Fauri Memorial Fund, School of Social
W ork   fund........................................................  5,000
FMC Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the FMC Corporation Fund in the School of
Business Administration and for Employee Matching Gifts fund..............  8,075
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund....................... 10,300
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the College of Engineering fund............  5,000
Golden W. Fuller, Davison; for support of WFUM-TV, The University of MichiganFlint  fund..........................................................  6,000
William A. Garrison Estate; for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship fund  6,019
Genevieve Gilmore Trust, Kalamazoo; for the School of Music Campaign fund.... 10,000
E. Jan Hartmann, Birmingham; Ziebart International Corporation common stock; for
unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign and
Annual Funds Program   funds..........................................  7,090
Hoffman Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the Tappan Hall Library Campaign
fund...............................................................  25,000
Hoover Foundation, North Canton, Ohio; for Employee Matching Gifts fund.......  5,050
Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit, Detroit; for the Yiddish Professorship, College
of Literature, Science  and  the Arts fund.................................  10,000
Marguerite W. Johnson Estate; for the Marguerite Wilker Johnson Fellowship Endowment in  the  School of Education  fund...................................  37,655
Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, Florida; for the Key Pharmaceuticals PostDoctoral Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy fund......................  8,000




230                        APRIL MEETING, 1985
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
for patient care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals fund.........  7,416
Knoll AG, Ludwigshafen, West Germany; for pharmacological research in the Medical School fund.....................................................  15,000
Dr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Krause, Bloomfield Hills; A land contract receivable on real
property located in Detroit, for the School of Dentistry fund.................  5,080
Journal of Language Learning, Ann Arbor; for the Journal of Language Learning
Visiting Professorship of Linguistics Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts fund............................................. 50,000
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust; for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds, for research in the
Medical School fund.................................................  30,200
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Endowment fund....................................................   5,219
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit; for the School of Business Administration Campaign, Computer Center fund................................... 40,000
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank fund, The University of
Michigan Hospitals fund..............................................  12,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
industrial operations research in the College of Engineering fund.............  8,250
Rowland A. Nadeau Trust, Beaver, Pennsylvania; for The University of MichiganFlint, Chancellor's fund...............................................  20,233
Nelson Research, Irvine, California; for research in the College of Pharmacy fund..  6,250
Mr. and Mrs. Milo E. Oliphant, Hendersonville, North Carolina; for the Eye Center
Campaign  fund......................................................  80,000
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut; for the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training
Center in the Medical School, and for the Pfizer Fellowship in the College of
Pharmacy funds.....................................................   19,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the Institute for Social
Research and for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan funds..... 27,000
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Rockwell
Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts
funds..............................................................   8,550
Ross Roy, Inc., Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  Campaign  fund................................................  5,000
Sheller-Globe Foundation, Toledo, Ohio; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Campaign fund.................................  10,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I.
Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School fund.............................  9,435
Margaret and Herman Sokol, New York, New York; American Petrofina, Inc.,
common stock; for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship in Chemistry,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies fund......................  6,025
Helmut Ster Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Helmut Ster Fund in the Museum of
Art fund...........................................................  12,500
Supreme Council 33rd Degree A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts; for the Scottish Rites Research
Programs in the Medical School fund.................................... 12,366
John Adams Thierry, Hill, New Hampshire; Bucyrus-Erie Company common stock
and cash gift of $2,179; for Asian Arts projects in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and for support of the Museum of Art funds............  6,510
Carl F. Truitt Estate; for the Carl F. Truitt Endowed Law Scholarship fund.......  6,525
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for pharmacological research in the Medical School,
and  for Employee Matching  Gifts funds..................................  6,142
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor; for pharmacological research in the Medical School, and for research in the College of
Pharmacy funds.....................................................    5,300
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for unrestricted support of
the School of Business Administration Campaign and for discretionary support of
the Office of the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs funds.................... 55,650
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor; for unrestricted support of the School of
Business Administration Campaign fund.................................  10,000




APRIL MEETING, 1985


231


S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York; for the S. K. Yee Law Scholarship
fund...............................................................  50,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Anonymous Donor. Hand-carved furniture: two mahogany tables, a sideboard and
eighteen floral tapestry chairs; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Dorothy Chiodo, Dearborn; A Romano Da Ferrara painting entitled, "Marilyn Monroe"; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
Thomas J. Curran, New York, New York. A rowing catamaran for the Freedom on
the River Program, Office of Affirmative Action
John C. Dann, Dexter. Four historical works (17th-19th centuries), two maps and five
autograph signed letters; for the Clements Library
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor. Electronic and electro-optical components and
materials; for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute
General Motors Research Laboratories, Warren. An RP Sputtering Unit and six
Alphatron gauge tubes; for the Solid-State Electronics Laboratory
Great Lakes Steel Corporation, Ecorse. A two-ton piece of steel; for the Powerhouse,
the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California. Electronic equipment; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
International Business Machines Corporation, Hopewell Junction, New York. An Ion
implantation system; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Christine E. McCaughey, Farmington Hills. Forty-nine volumes of Simmons Study of
Media and Markets (1982); for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
Robert A. McKinley, Bay City.; George Washington's "Commission of Richard
Dickinson to Inspector for Port of Saybrook" (1795) for the Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Shuler, Orchard Lake. Paintings by Richard Koxlow and Chuang
Che, and a Glenn Michaels sculpture; for the Museum of Art
Dr. and Mrs. John W. Shy, Ann Arbor. A Benjamin West hand-colored engraving
and a book, The London Museum of Politics, Miscellanies and Literature (1770);
for the Clements Library
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor. Ceramics: twelve Native American and one Korean Silla
Dynasty, and a silver Sheffield plate; for the Museum of Art
Vice President Cosovich reviewed his report on development and
communication.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Leon E. Irish, J.D., D.Phil., Professor of Law, without tenure, June 1, 1985
Raymond C. Scott, Associate Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Engineering, March 5, 1985 through April 30, 1985
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Ernest H. Y. Chu, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Toxicology, without tenure, School of Public Health, January 1, 1985
John A. Jacques, Professor of Physiology, Medical School, and Professor of Biostatistics,
School of Public Health, also appointed Acting Chairman in the Department of Physiology,
Medical School, September 1, 1985




232


APRIL MEETING, 1985


William I. Miller, from Visiting Associate Professor of Law to Professor of Law, with tenure,
May 1, 1985
Committee Appointments
The following committee appointments were approved.
Martha Cook Building Board of Governors
Joyce C. Tucker, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1985, vice Carrie Pebbles, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
David D. Bien, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1985, vice William Rosenberg, term
expired
T. Michael Sanders, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1985, vice Carl Gans, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Rosemary E. Berardi, for a three-year term, effective July 1, 1985, vice Martha L. Hyneck,
term expired
The Regents approved the extension of leaves of absence for Oded
Gur-Arie, Assistant Professor of Marketing, and Patricia Shontz Longe,
Professor of Business Administration.
The Regents approved exceptions to regental policies to permit the
employment of Professor Herbert Sloan, M.D. beyond the compulsory
retirement age, and to continue eligibility for a retirement furlough after
age 70 to commence on July 1, 1986 through June 30, 1987.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective March 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Robert H. Beekman, III, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Kevin D. Cooper, M.D., Dermatology
Eric J. Topol, M.D., Internal Medicine
Elizabeth A. Young, M.D., Psychiatry, December 1, 1984
Instructor
Ryszard B. Krol, M.D., Internal Medicine, December 10, 1984
Sharlet Murad, M.B., Ch.B., Anesthesiology
Lecturer
Alan D. Weingrad, M.D., Family Practice
Visiting Professor
Abraham Ber, D.Sc., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, January 1, 1985
Visiting Associate Professor
Hiroyuki Suzuki, D.D.S., Dentistry
Adjunct Professor
Mary S. Kershner, J.D., Environmental Studies, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1985
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Robert T. Kohl, Ph.D., Chemistry, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1985
Adjunct Lecturer
Vincent J. Abreu, Ph.D., Aerospace Engineering, January 1, 1985
Frederick D. Jacobs, M.B.A., Management, UM-Flint, January 1, 1985
Octavian E. Petrescu, B.A., Political Science, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1985
Susan L. Taylor, M.A., History of Art, January 1, 1985




APRIL MEETING, 1985


233


Clinical Instructor
Michael S. Kobernick, M.D., Surgery, April 1, 1985
Robert J. Mazzeo, M.D., Surgery, April 1, 1985
Jerry S. Walden, M.D., Family Practice, January 1, 1985
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Dennis Crowley, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, January 1, 1985
Marian L. Majewski, from Visiting Associate Professor to Associate Professor, without tenure,
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, February 21, 1985
Luis F. Sfeir-Younis, Adjunct Lecturer in Sociology, also appointed Adjunct Lecturer in
Comprehensive Studies Program, January 1, 1985
Faye S. Silverstein, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also appointed Assistant Professor of Neurology, January 1, 1985
Steven A. Yarows, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Department of Family Practice,
also appointed Clinical Instructor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 1, 1985
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Professor
Christopher J. Chetsanga, Biology and Biochemistry, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1985
Associate Professor
Kaiomars P. Anklesaria, Business Administration, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1985
Jack L. Cronenwett, Surgery, January 31, 1985
Instructor
Janis Shaw, Anesthesiology, February 28, 1985
Marc J. Tuchman, Anesthesiology, March 31, 1985
Visiting Associate Professor
Ismail A. Tag, Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, February 20, 1985
Clinical Assistant Professor
Lowell I. Goodman, Psychiatry, March 30, 1985
Clinical Instructor
Neil W. Dorsey, Dentistry, March 15, 1985
Two off-campus assignments, two sabbatical leaves, three leaves of
absence without salary, two extended sick leaves and one off-campus assignment which had previously been reported as a leave of absence without
salary were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of three faculty members. The following memoirs were adopted:
WILILAM L. BRUDON, Associate Professor of Art and Associate Professor of Medical
and Biological Illustration in the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, has retired from
active faculty status as of August 31, 1984 following a 36-year career of active faculty teaching
and scientific illustrating service to the University.
A native of Illinois, Professor Brudon attended the University of Florida where he prepared
artwork for texts and research papers prior to entering the U.S. Army Medical Professional
Schools in 1942 as illustrator in the Tropical Medicine Division. In 1948, following a brief
career as a commercial artist, he joined the staff of The University of Michigan Museum of
Zoology, where he illustrated numerous research publications for the six museum divisions.




234


APRIL MEETING, 1985


In 1960 Professor Brudon became staff illustrator in the Department of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, a position he held until his recent retirement. His innovative contributions appear in
over 500 research publications in the fields of gross anatomy, histology, cell biology, dental
anatomy and clinical research, embryology, neuroanatomy, and animal taxonomy and morphology, where his research in graphic illustrative techniques and photography are obvious.
In 1970 he was appointed associate professor in the School of Art. He attained the rank of
associate professor of medical and biological illustration in the Medical School in 1978. He was
a faculty member in the program of medical and biological illustration since its inception in
1963. Professor Brudon designed and continues to present a popular course in fundamentals of
biological illustration as a School of Art summer workshop.
His continued University of Michigan committee service in the fields of illustration and the
arts have been combined with national professional activities. He is a recent past president and
board member of the Association of Medical Illustrators and has been a board member of the
Guild of Natural Science Illustrators, both international professional societies of the arts in
science.
He has presented seminars and demonstrations of his many illustrating and photographic
techniques in this country and in Canada, and has received several national awards for his
technical and fine arts efforts, including, among others, the prestigious Muriel McLatchy Miller
Fine Arts Award, given during the 1982 Association of Medical Illustrators Annual Meeting in
Anaheim, California. In addition, Professor Brudon is represented in the permanent collection
of the Guild of Natural Science Illustrators exhibit, under the auspices of the Smithsonian
Institute, Washington, D.C.
The Regents now acknowledge the contributions of this distinguished teacher and artist by
naming him Associate Professor Emeritus of Art, School of Art; and Associate Professor
Emeritus of Medical and Biological Illustration in the Department of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, Medical School.
ARTHUR B. FRENCH, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, has retired from active
faculty status as of February 28, 1985. Dr. French has served The University of Michigan with
distinction for almost 30 years.
After graduating from Johns Hopkins University, he served for two years in the United
States Army, rising to the rank of Major, and then trained in gastroenterology at Harvard
Medical School under Dr. Chester Jones. After faculty appointments at the University of Utah
and Wayne State University, he joined the faculty of The University of Michigan in 1956.
Upon his arrival, with great energy and initiative, he immediately established a long-term
clinical investigative program in malabsorption, a field which had received little attention in the
University in the past. In so doing, he made it possible for the University to achieve national
and international recognition in this field. His investigations led to significant advancement in
knowledge, and, by the development of a practical booklet of dietary management for the
treatment of some intestinal disorders, he made it possible for countless patients throughout the
world to lead normal lives. In addition, he has been innovative in developing techniques for
sampling tissue from the small bowel for the better documentation of gastrointestinal disorders.
His greatest administrative achievement at The University of Michigan was in the design,
development and management of a clinical research unit which he created out of the area
previously occupied by the hospital cafeteria. That unit, at the time of its construction, was
probably the most advanced in the world, and requests for information and blueprints were
received from several countries overseas.
In spite of a busy investigative schedule, he has been a mentor of numerous fellows who
have achieved distinction in the field of gastroenterology throughout the world, including
Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Japan.
As a clinician, he was a model of conscientious and painstaking clinical care of patients. As
a teacher, he was extremely effective in inculcating specifics of pathophysiology and medical
care to groups of students.
The Regents now salute Dr. Arthur B. French for his many years of service as teacher,
investigator, and administrator by naming him Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
CHARLES LESLIE RULFS, Professor of Chemistry, has retired from active faculty
status as of December 31, 1984, after a career of 35 years of teaching and research at The
University of Michigan.
Professor Rulfs was born in St. Louis, Missouri, on October 21, 1920. He received his B.S.




APRIL MEETING, 1985


235


degree from the University of Illinois in 1942. After a short period as a research chemist with
the Linde Air Products Company Laboratory, from 1942 to 1945, he completed his graduate
work at Purdue University, receiving the Ph.D. degree in 1949. Professor Rulf joined the staff
of The University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1949 and progressed through the
ranks, being appointed as professor in 1961. Beginning in 1961, he served as a consultant and
visiting staff member at the Los Alamos National Scientific Laboratory, an association which
lasted over a period of several years.
Professor Rulfs' area of interest is analytical chemistry, particularly electrochemistry and
polarography. In addition to research papers, he contributed invited chapters to various encyclopedias and treatises dealing with his areas of expertise. Besides his research interests in the
methods of polarography, Professor Rulfs is known for his studies on the chemistry of the
elements technetium and rhenium. His bibliography contains over twenty papers devoted to the
chemistry of these two elements alone. Other research and review articles bring his total
publication list to well over 50. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, the
Electrochemical Society and Sigma Xi.
Although his teaching duties were centralized in various courses in the analytical chemistry
area, Professor Rulfs also taught from time to time in general chemistry. He served the
department as an undergraduate counselor, as a graduate advisor, and as a member of the
departmental curriculum committee and various other departmental committees. As a sidelight
to his professional teaching duties, Professor Rulfs maintained an enviable reputation around
the department as an amateur magician, and was much in demand at departmental parties where
children were present.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and researcher for his service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
VII. MEMORIALS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
The Regents approved the tentative doctoral degree list for the May 1985
Commencement exercises.
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, August, 1984
add: Angela Marie Hicks
Claire Innes
Shelley Pickard
Robert Stengle
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, (Chemical Engineering), December 21, 1984
correct to show: Dori Shimon Shelef, with honors
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Science in Engineering in Computer, Information and Control Engineering, August
1984
correct to show: Xianghui Zhang
Rackham, Master of Public Administration, December, 1984
add: Richard Dennis Lamster, B.S., South Dakota State University
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Master of Art, December, 1984




236


APRIL MEETING, 1985


History of Art
add: Carol Jean McPhee, A.B.
Linguistics
add: William Paul Fleischmann, A.B.
Master of Science, December, 1984
Geology
add: Zachary David Sharp, A.B., University of California, Berkeley
Medical School, Master of Science, December, 1980
Human Genetics
add: Carolyn Jo Bruzdzinski, B.S., University of Illinois at Chicago Circle
Law School
Juris Doctor, December 21, 1984
correct to show: Anthony Raymond Rosso, cum laude
delete: Jeffrey David Kangas
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 21, 1984
add: Charmaine Deadman, with Distinction
Lucinda Lee Pinkham
Bachelor of Science, December 21, 1984
add: Eve Ellen Boyd
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add: Jeffrey Wayne Jones
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1984
correct to show: Camilla Helene Waldmann
School of Nursing
Bachelor of Science in Nursing, December 21, 1984
correct to show: Nancy E. Gregory, Summa Cum Laude
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Bachelor of Arts, December 19, 1984
add: David J. Worthington, with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, December 19, 1984
add: Gregory Allen Dale, with Distinction
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, December 19, 1984
add: Mary Michaeline Gregg
Division of Education
Bachelor of Arts, August 31, 1984
correct to show: Lianne Tamara Cohn, with Distinction
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Audit Report, Student Financial Aid Programs
The Regents received an audit report of the student financial aid programs from July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1984.
Investment Programs Review
The Regents received a twelve-month review of investment programs.
A brief recess followed.




APRIL MEETING, 1985


237


Medical Technology Program Discontinuation
Since there were some guests present who would participate in the
discussion of the recommendation to discontinue the Medical Technology
Program, President Shapiro stated that the subject would be placed before
the Board at this time.
Vice President Frye indicated that the administration's recommendation
would close the program at the end of the 1986-87 academic year. Dr. Mary
Ann Swain, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, has had central
responsibility for the process and would summarize the recommendation and
respond to questions. Sandra Gluck, Director of the program, would make a
statement concerning her views of the recommendation, and Dr. Robert
Green, chairman of SACUA, would speak on whether the process was
basically sufficient.
Dr. Swain discussed briefly the process that led to the recommendation
and the bases for the recommendation. She said that the process was
initiated because of concerns that were raised in the Pathology Department
and the Medical School about the future viability of the Medical Technology
Program. In view of Dr. Peter Ward's dual responsibility as Interim Dean of
the Medical School and Chairman of the Pathology Department, and because the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts was involved also, it
was considered more appropriate that the review committee be appointed by
the Office of Academic Affairs. The appointed committee was chaired by
Judy Ozbolt, Associate Professor of Nursing and included Gordon Nordby,
Associate Professor of Biological Sciences, Robert Beyer, Professor of
Biological Sciences, and Marjorie Becker, Assistant Dean of Allied Health
Programs in the Medical School.
The Committee was charged and undertook its investigation in response
to seven questions that were part of the charge. After careful review, the
committee responded that the program was of very good quality and should
be continued at its present size. The committee spoke also to some factors
concerning the integration between pre-clinical and clinical years at the
University and pointed out various aspects of the program.
Academic Affairs felt that the question concerning the program's integration with the multi-dimensional research and training missions of the
Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, was
critical and asked the committee to take more time to look at that question.
The committee responded that the program was of relatively low priority in
both academic units. They reiterated their prior description of the quality of
the program and suggested that its centrality and overall priority was a
matter to be decided by the central administration. The dean and the
executive committee then came to a unanimous decision to close the program and forwarded that recommendation to Vice President Frye. The
faculty involved and others were invited to comment and a public hearing
was held to hear comments of interested parties.
Dr. Swain listed the following reasons for the closure recommendation:
the belief that the program was not central to the mission of The University




238


APRIL MEETING, 1985


of Michigan, the fact that program is relatively costly in terms of other
educational and programmatic needs of the Medical School and the University as a whole, and the belief that enrollments will decline because of the
changing way in which testing will be done in the health care setting. It is
difficult to recommend the discontinuance of a program that is of good
quality, but it is equally difficult to consider putting additional general funds
money into a program that is not central and for which there does not seem
to be a future.
Ms. Gluck indicated that it was generally agreed that the Medical
Technology program and its products are superior. Many of the graduates go
on to be laboratory supervisors, chief technologists and many eventually go
on to graduate school. It is understood that financial support from the
hospital is no longer feasible under the prospective payment system,
but general fund support is sought because it is felt that the program
is valuable.
In response to some of the reasons that were given for discontinuing the
program, Ms. Gluck commented that the historical lack of appropriate
administrative support and full program status has lead directly to the
inability of the program to become central to the mission of the University.
Without faculty appointments available for all of the staff, contributions to
research have never been possible. Other state four-year institutions, Big
Ten institutions, and other major national institutions have afforded similar
programs and faculty full academic status. There was agreement that
advanced technology would decrease the need for medical technologists
in the future; however, the demand for high quality technologists would
continue.
The program is only half the size it was ten years ago because the
Pathology Department and the Medical School insisted that enrollment be
reduced. The program has had less than 20 students since 1981 because of,
among other reasons, there have been persistent rumors of the program's
demise since 1976. Clinical teaching in the program has been the responsibility of professional technologists from the hospital and not from academic
faculty. There has been no lack of support from medical school faculty
members who have been asked to give an occasional lecture to the students.
And finally, the present freshmen, the class of 1988, were not informed of
the 1987 discontinuance date until the past December and should be allowed
an opportunity to complete the program.
In conclusion, Ms. Gluck asked, "Why should The University of Michigan's resources be denied to a student interested in becoming a member of
the health care team? As hospital medical technology programs are rapidly
closing for lack of money, shouldn't such education take place at a university with its own medical resources? What are the long-range implications
for the quality of patient care when the type of technologist that the
University can produce is not available to take leadership positions in the
future?" Ms. Gluck urged the Regents to seriously consider these questions
before voting on the recommendation.
Dr. Green indicated that SACUA's role in the proceedings was to review




APRIL MEETING, 1985


239


the process, particularly in relation to the discontinuance guidelines adopted
by the Regents. He said that there were a number of areas of concern
relating to the process, but none that were considered serious enough to
cause opposition to the recommendation. Some of the questions raised were:
concern for the students who came to the University specifically for this
program who would not be able to receive a degree in their chosen field, the
affirmative action issues since most of the students and the faculty in the
program are female, the lack of an ad hoc committee to review the financial
data as suggested in the guidelines, and some ambiguity between various
functions of program evaluation on the one hand and evaluation for discontinuance on the other hand. SACUA felt that these flaws require some
correction in the future, preferably in advance of future proceedings, but did
not believe they are such that the recommendation should be opposed or
withdrawn on a procedural basis.
Regent Brown expressed his concern for those students who would be
unable to enroll in the program to attain the degree for which they enrolled
at the University. He felt that the University had an obligation to them. He
raised the question of alternative arrangements. Every attempt should be
made by the administration and faculty to accommodate those freshmen who
will lose the last year of the program, and, of course, the degree in Medical
Technology. Regent Smith concurred. Dr. Swain indicated that she is
looking into other possibilities to accommodate those students.
Discussion continued with issues concerning alternative places within the
state where the students could obtain their training including internships, the
difference between the views of the pathologists and the technologists with
respect to laboratory work, and the economic situation.
Dr. John Niederhuber, Senior Associate Dean of the Medical School,
commented that the Pathology Department is one of the departments that has
been affected with the changes in reimbursement and has been retrenching to
compensate for that. He said that there is no question about the quality of
the program, but because of the dollar constraints, the department cannot be
all things to everyone.
Regent Baker remarked that the medical technology program is a valuable program. He said he was sympathetic to the administration's view, but
also to the students. There appears to be a one-year difficulty which involves
the current freshmen. Whatever effort can be made to accommodate those
students ought to be done. He asked if the program at Wayne State University could accommodate them. The response indicated that the students have
been apprised of the program at Wayne State, but the students want a degree
from The University of Michigan.
Regent Roach said the precise language of the discontinuance recommendation indicated that the students whose intent, upon entering the University was to pursue a medical technology degree, have not been formally
admitted and, indeed, may not apply to the program. It seems, however,
that they are strongly motivated to continue to pursue the program.
In his view, a way should be found to allow these freshmen to realize
their goal.




240


APRIL MEETING, 1985


Discussion continued with respect to the cost involved if the program
was extended to 1988 in order to allow the entering freshmen to complete
the program, and the possibility of combining the medical technology
program with the allied health program at the Flint campus. Chancellor
Jones commented that the possible expansion of the present medical technology program at the Flint Campus had been considered, but it was decided
that there was no demand for expansion in the Flint area.
Other areas of concern that were expressed by the administration were
the inability to sustain the quality of the program; the number of students
that would actually be committed to the program in three years; the cost
burden on the Pathology Department which has been affected by the new
reimbursement regulations; the cost of one additional year, and the priority
of the program within the medical school with respect to that cost.
Vice President Frye said that, in his judgment, there were reasonable
alternatives available for those who wished to take professional training in
medical technology. The students could be apprised of these alternatives
through counseling and other assistance.
A brief recess followed.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topic indicated: Doug Mallouk, Michigan Coordinator of the Schiller Institute, on the reasons the free inquiry group should not be allowed to hold
events on campus.
North Campus Master Plan
Vice President Brinkerhoff then commented that a presentation of the
master plan of North Campus had been made to the Regents in January
which outlined the characteristics for that campus. Action was delayed in
order to provide an opportunity for additional questions that might arise
relative to the plan. Since there have been no additional items for consideration, it is recommended that the Regents approve the plan, as submitted.
In response to a question by Regent Power with respect to questions
raised by Regent Brown concerning inclusion of open spaces, Vice President
Brinkerhoff said that all of the comments were noted and would become
additional guidelines when specific architectural development was being
considered. The suggestion to provide "an avenue of view" would be
considered if the pond area can be developed.
Regent Power then moved to approve the North Campus master plan as
submitted. Regent Roach seconded the motion for further discussion.
Regent Roach indicated his concern with the response to Regent Power's
question. The action item requests approval of the plan, not the essence of
the plan. The plan itself is conceptual. It is not a specific site for buildings
or a landscape diagram.
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented that approval is being sought for
the concept that is brought forth in the plan.
Regent Roach said that since the January discusssion, the south border of
the campus would be changed because of the realignment of the roadway by




APRIL MEETING, 1985


241


Veterans Hospital. He asked if the plan provided for this development. Vice
President Brinkerhoff responded in the affirmative.
After further discussion, Regent Power amended the motion to approve
the overall concept of the North Campus master plan as submitted. The
amended motion was seconded by Regent Roach and adopted.
Renovations
Regent Power moved approval to proceed with the annual maintenance program for parking operations; West Quadrangle roof replacement; Mental Health
Research Institute laboratory renovations, and Utility System Extension in the
Medical Campus area. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Land Transfer, Veterans' Administration Hospital/City of Ann Arbor
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to transfer portions of
University land to the City of Ann Arbor and to the Veterans Administration
for the relocation of Oakway Road and the expansion of the Veterans
Hospital site. He indicated that it is not possible for the federal government
to make this land donation contingent upon some action on their part. The
University must operate on a good faith basis. Regent Smith had suggested
that a reverted clause might be added to the agreement in the event the
Veterans Administration was not able to proceed with the developments as
envisaged, not necessarily the road, but the construction in the area. Vice
President Brinkerhoff indicated that this will be explored. This action has
been recommended because the relocation of this road has been an objective
ever since the North Campus was developed. The relocation provides for a
much more dramatic entry into the campus.
Following further discussion, Regent Roach indicated that this would be
an appropriate time to obtain a commitment from the city that they would
vacate the roads involved. Vice President Brinkerhoff said that the commitment has already been made by the City, particularly in relation to Oakway,
and that the commitment extends to all vacated road beds which would be
left to the adjoining property owners.
Regent Baker commented that in the interests of Regent Brown, who was
not present that the University maintain the option of utilizing Fuller Road
between Veterans Administration Hospital and the private facilities to the
south in the future.
Regent Varner moved to authorize the transfer of approximately 3.9
acres of land to the City of Ann Arbor and approximately 8.9 acres of land
to the Veterans Administration, and approve the plan as submitted. Regent
Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging Facility
Regent Baker moved to authorize the appointment of TMP Associates,
Inc./Hansen Lind Meyer, Inc. as the Magnetic Resonance Imaging facility
architect. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations, UM-Flint
Regent Smith moved to approve the revised budget for the Harrison
Street Parking Structure repair at The University of Michigan-Flint. Regent
Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.




242


APRIL MEETING, 1985


X. OTHER
Appointments, University of Michigan Hospitals
Regent Roach moved to approve the appointment of Herbert Sloan,
M.D. as Chief of Clinical Affairs for the period July 1, 1985 through June
30, 1986. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents approved the recommendation for appointments to the
medical staff membership of University of Michigan Hospitals.
The meeting was recessed.
Friday, April 19, 1985
The Regent met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, and Vice President and
Secretary Kennedy also were present. Interim Vice President Sussman was
absent. Associate Vice President Price attended the meeting for him.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and said that there would
be a small change in the agenda so that the item which had been tabled on
Thursday could be addressed at this time.
Executive Dormitory, School of Business Administration
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that Norman Herbert, University
investment officer, and the representative of Miller, Canfield law firm were
present to review and to respond to any questions concerning the bond issue
for the construction and equipping of the School of Business Administration's executive dormitory.
Regent Roach moved to approve the resolution and incorporate it into
the minutes of the meeting that:
a) Authorizes the sale of the Regents of The University of Michigan,
School of Business Administration Management Education Revenue
Bonds in the principal amount of $3,365,000 to John Nurveen &
Co., Inc., plus accrued interest from April 1, 1985 to the date of
closing,
b) Approves and ratifies the form of the Trust Indenture and Bond
Purchase Agreement and execution of both,
c) Approves the appointment of Citizens Trust, Ann Arbor, Michigan as
Trustee, and
d) Authorizes certain officers to execute the Bonds and any other documentation necessary, expedient or proper, in connection with the
issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner and Waters voting
affirmatively. The resolution appears as Appendix A to these minutes.
Affirmative Action Report
Mrs. Virginia Nordby, Executive Assistant to the President and Director
of Affirmative Action, then reviewed the report on affirmative action. She
reminded the Board that the intention of this particular report is to address




APRIL MEETING, 1985


243


the issues which, in her judgement, are important for the University community to consider. This is not the federal compliance plan.
The federal government continues to be active in this arena and continues to conduct affirmative action compliance reviews. The federal regulations require a compliance review prior to the award of a contract of $1
million or more, if a review had not been conducted within the past year.
Since The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor receives a large number of
federal contracts, many of which are for more than $1 million, that regulation makes the University eligible for a compliance review literally every
year. Contrary to popular belief there have been no changes in any of the
applicable federal regulations since the current federal administration took
office in 1981. Therefore, the University is continuing to operate with the
same set of rules, regulations and reporting requirements that have been in
effect for a number of years.
In addition to the responsibility of the Office of Affirmative Action for
overseeing the University's compliance with the federal affirmative action
regulations, Mrs. Nordby said that her office is also responsible for assuring
University compliance with federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination. The office continuously reviews policies and practices to be sure that
they are current with the most recent interpretation of the federal and state
non-discrimination laws. The quality of this institution is enhanced by the
abilities and contributions of a diverse and heterogeneous faculty, administrative and support staff as well as a diversity in the student body. The
University's commitment is carried out through vigorous programs of recruiting, training, and attention to individualized support needs. The University does not favor individuals who are not competitive merely to accomplish
affirmative action goals, but rather seeks out people who are competitive
and helps those people become successful at the University.
Mrs. Nordby indicated that there were three areas in which progress
could be assessed: the simple changes in numbers and percentages technique
which is the least analytical approach; to note changes in the utilization of
the available pool; and the evaluation of the extent to which the University
has used actual placement opportunities to achieve affirmative action goals.
The report is divided into sections which are devoted to information
concerning non-instructional staff and faculty. Mrs. Nordby then reviewed
each section. The non-instructional positions have very few promotional
ladders. Promotions in this area are gained by applying for an open position.
This year for the first time promotions, reclassifications, and terminations
are being reported for this group.
In the faculty area, the number of women full professors and associate
professors in the tenured ranks have remained the same, but with a slightly
higher percentage. Black tenured associate and full professors have also
remained the same. This year the area of concern is at the assistant professor
level. There has been a drop in the numbers and percentages of both women
and Black assistant professors. This drop can be attributed to a failure to
hire, in adequate numbers, women and minorities to replace those who are
either being promoted or leaving the University. The second measure of
progress, the goal posture, is reported school by school. In summarizing the
existence of these goals, Mrs. Nordby commented that the information




244


APRIL MEETING, 1985


indicates that the University is not fully utilizing the available pool. She
acknowledged that, nationally, the minority pool, particularly Black Ph.D.s.,
is dropping as it has been at the University of Michigan. That factor was
taken into account when these goals were set; therefore, it cannot be offered
as an excuse for failure to accomplish these goals.
The drop in new hiring at the assistant professor rank is a major part of
the problem, and creates a challenge in terms of vigorous recruiting at that
level. Mrs. Nordby cited the College of Engineering, the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, Law School, the Sociology Department of
LSA, and Internal Medicine department in the Medical School for their
accomplishments in terms of affirmative action. She noted also that formal
offers were made and were rejected to nine additional minority and ten
women candidates which does reflect a good faith effort.
The University of Michigan-Dearborn has very few non-instructional
goals at the present time which indicates that the available pool is being
utilized in most of their non-instructional job groups. In the faculty area
there are very few hiring opportunities, but those that were available were
used to hire candidates that helped achieve goals.
At The University of Michigan-Flint there are also very few noninstructional goals. There has been a very significant rise in both Black and
Hispanic employees in this group, and the Black faculty percentage is a
significant proportion of the total faculty. In the future, goals for the campus
will be set for each school and department rather than for the entire campus
to ensure that affirmative action is being utilized fully in the various
disciplines.
In summary, Mrs. Nordby noted that there have been some notable
successes resulting from the serious commitment and extensive good faith
efforts in many units around the University. But it is frustrating that the
faculty profile has changed so little over time in spite of the very significant
effort that has been made. These data will be assessed and the many
programs evaluated to determine whether there is a need for change and
modification, and to begin developing new programs to address the problem
areas that have been identified.
Regent Baker indicated that his question was on a different subject-not
the federal law. He noted Mrs. Nordby's statement that the University
follows federal law in the area of non-discrimination and affirmative action,
and referred to the state of Michigan's Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act in the
report. He asked Mrs. Nordby if she had any comment on that law and how
it affects the University's programs and whether it is more restrictive or less
restrictive than federal law.
Mrs. Nordby responded that Executive Order #11246 is the only one that
deals with affirmative action at all. All the other laws, including the
Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act, which is a Michigan law, are nondiscrimination laws. For example, the University uses procedures to be sure
that there is compliance with non-discrimination laws; these involve an
assessment of the reasons why individuals have not been hired.
The Affirmative Action Office carefully monitors hiring decisions and
requires explanations for why people have not been hired, if they have not
been hired. The office also relies upon the grievance mechanism to call




APRIL MEETING, 1985


245


individual cases of possible discrimination to their attention. There is no
formal mechanism in place for monitoring Elliott-Larsen specifically. But
non-discrimination laws, in general, are monitored at the time of hiring and
through individual grievances or complaints.
Regent Baker said that he raised the issue so the Regents might know if
there is any specific concerns with the Elliott-Larsen law as it affects the
University. It may be an area which should be reviewed at a later date.
Considerable discussion followed, including: the lack of progress with
respect to Black staff and faculty appointments, the high percentage of
minority employees working on the hospital project, a brief history of efforts
made over the last five years to bring minorities into the institution, the
discouraging fact that at the assistant professor level, which is the pipeline to
the tenured ranks, the proportion of white males has risen, and the effect
that the spouse placement problem has had on the University's ability to
attract individuals.
There was a brief recess.
Medical Technology Program
President Shapiro commented that the issue of the Medical Technology
Program would be considered at this time. He indicated that the various
issues and problems had been discussed on Thursday with respect to equitable and reasonable treatment for the current freshmen of the University who
might apply and might be admitted to the program if it were to be continued.
President Shapiro said that his recommendation to the Board was to
consider a motion that would approve the recommendation as submitted with
the additional requirement that the vice president for academic affairs make
every reasonable effort to accommodate the interests of all the current
students who had expectations of receiving the Medical Technology degree.
Regent Baker moved to approve the recommendation, and Regent Power
seconded the motion.
Regent Roach expressed his agreement with the motion. He said it was
not easy to discontinue a high quality program, but as Dean Niederhuber had
said, the University cannot be all things to everyone. He hoped that extensive counseling would take place, that Flint would reconsider the issue, and
that every avenue would be explored to satisfy the expectations, whether
they were reasonable expectations or not, of that group of students, however
small, who came to Michigan with the hope of getting a medical technology
degree in 1988.
Regent Baker commented on the ongoing debate in the state with regard
to the ability of institutions to set their own priorities and to discipline
themselves in regard to reduction and elimination of programs which do not
meet the specific needs of the state. He was referring directly to the most
recent governor's special committee report on education. Part of this report
pursued the idea that state institutions do not have the ability to discipline
themselves. He noted that, in his recollection, this disciplining process of
trying to conserve the public's money and the institution's money by decreasing duplications in educational programs has been a major priority of
this institution. He listed the major reductions or eliminations in public
health, the extension service, population studies, physical therapy, geogra



246


APRIL MEETING, 1985


phy, the School of Education, natural resources, art, and now the Medical
Technology Program. The Medical School enrollment has been reduced
also. He felt that it was important for the press to point out to the public that
this institution has the ability to discipline itself and does try to do that.
Regent Brown said that he could support the motion, but he wanted to
emphasize the necessity to accommodate the freshmen who had expected to
enter that program to attain a University of Michigan degree. He indicated
that closing the program seemed to be the sensible path, but the timing was
difficult. He hoped that the administration would find a solution that would
be reasonable for these students. The motion was adopted.
Investments
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that the request for action with
respect to participation in Endowment and Foundation Realty, Ltd.-JMB
III which had been deferred in March, had been expanded with additional
information. He then introduced Mr. Norman Herbert, the University's
investment officer, to review the program.
Mr. Herbert indicated that real estate was an alternative that had been
explored because of the type of performance it provided as an investment
vehicle for the endowment funds. He reviewed some of the history of real
estate investment by the University, and indicated that it provides an opportunity to continue increasing the income levels of University investments.
By virtue of previous participation in JMB I and II, the University has the
first right for subscribing to JMB III and any other successor funds that
might be considered. Mr. Herbert mentioned the other institutions, endowments and foundations that have taken advantage of JMB I and II, and will
more than likely subscribe also to JMB III. He said that JMB III is an
appropriate investment opportunity and it is recommended for approval.
Regent Smith expressed her concern about the length of time the University would be committed to this type of investment. There was no way of
determining the real estate market value several years from now. She felt
that this was not the best kind of investment for the University.
After further discussion, Regent Power moved to authorize the University to invest an additional $1,000,000 in the Endowment and Foundation
Realty, Ltd.-JMB-III to be drawn from the Consolidated Endowment
Fund, Rackham Endowment Fund, and the Fund Functioning as Endowment. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted, with Regent
Smith voting no.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of March 14 and 15, 1985 were approved
with certain specified changes.
RHP Contracts
Regent Nielsen moved approval to award a contract for Proposal Package #C3B, ACF Nurse Call/Multi-Intercom System/Single Channel Intercom/
Overhead Sound/Room Status Light System, to Multi-Comm, Inc., Livonia,
Michigan, and Medtronex, Inc., Bridgeview, Illinois, a Joint Venture. The
motion was seconded and adopted.




APRIL MEETING, 1985


247


Regent Power moved approval to award a contract to Advanced Interactive System, Waltham, Massachusetts, in the amount of $116,865 for portions of Components 1 and 2 of Communications Systems-Proposal Package
#C4R, and an award of a contract to Motorola Communications and Electronics, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois, in the amount of $130,415 for portions
of Components 12 and 2 of Communications Systems-Proposal Package
#C4R. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Real Property
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to sell vacant property
in Cook County, Illinois, and indicated that further negotiations with the
City of Chicago would proceed in order to obtain a higher price than that
which was offered to the University.
The Regents were concerned with the recommendation which stated that
the University would accept not less than $338,000, which was the offered
price. They did not believe that a higher price could be obtained if this
phrase was included in the motion. Regent Waters suggested that the phrase
be deleted from the recommendation.
Regent Brown then moved that the sale of the 24 lots (Lots 12 through
28, Block 4, Frederick H. Bartlett's City Addition and Lots 13 through 17
and Lots 22 and 23, Block 10, Frederick H. Bartlett's First Addition to City
Addition, all in Section 15, Cook County, Illinois) be authorized at the best
price obtainable. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Vice President Brinkerhoff addressed the item concerning Colonial Point
Property at Burt Lake. He explained that Little Traverse Conservancy and
Nature Conservancy have proposed to purchase the property to prevent its
depletion by lumbering. The University, among others, was being asked to
pledge some funds to be used as collateral in order to obtain a loan so that
they might acquire the property over time. The University was requested to
pledge $200,000. The legal documents to achieve this goal are currently in
preparation and will be in negotiation with the Conservancy people. Regent
Brown commented upon some of the features of the property itself which he
had viewed.
President Shapiro indicated that the proposal will be brought back to the
Regents when all of the details are available. But, if there are fundamental
objections then, of course, proceedings would cease. The administration
feels that the University's interest in making a pledge stems from its desire
to help preserve something that is very important to the state.
Regent Roach commented that the unique aspects of this are the University's use of the 60 acres for research, on what is really a virgin forest. This is
a specific, once in a lifetime situation. The University would not become
necessarily involved with other conservation groups around the state who
might want to protect a piece of land from development.
Vice President Brinkerhoff then reviewed the request to preserve a parcel
of land adjoining the Biological Station on Burt Lake which has been used
by the Station for instruction and research. The owners of the property have
decided to develop the land. The University has been working with the Little
Traverse Conservancy, The Tip of the Mitt Watershed Council and a group
of Burt Lake property owners to acquire the property. The University would




248


APRIL MEETING, 1985


like to contribute up to $200,000 for this purpose and would expect to gain
ownership of the portion of the parcel which the Biological Station has been
using for instruction and research. Fund raising responsibility for this particular parcel would rest with the Tip of the Mitt Wetlands Conservation
group, and they have been actively involved in developing their contacts for
gift funds and other funds to acquire the property. They have no objection to
deeding the entire parcel to the University, if that is possible, once that
acquisition has been completed.
Following considerable discussion, Regent Brown moved to authorize a
contribution of up to $200,000 towards this project with title to all or an
appropriate portion of the property to come to The University of Michigan,
as recommended. Regent Waters seconded the motion.
In response to a question, President Shapiro assured the Board that no
money would be invested unless the University can gain title to at least the
land west of the road. That would be the minimum condition for any
contribution to the project. He then called for the vote. The motion was
adopted unanimously.
All the above transaction were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of
March totaled $747.42.
The Regents adjourned to meet on May 16 and 17, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") constitute a
constitutional body corporated established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan
and the control and direction of all expenditures from the institution's funds; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously established the School of Business Administration Management Education Program (the "Program") wherein executives from business,
governmental, charitable and other organizations participate in educational programs designed
to enhance strategic decision making capabilities and are provided an interdisciplinary perspective on business problems; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously authorized the construction, acquisition, furnishing and equipping of an executive dormitory (the "Project") to provide housing and dining
facilities for persons participating in the Program; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control and
direct expenditures from the University's funds, the University determines it is necessary and
desirable to authorize the issuance and delivery of the University's School of Business Administration Management Education Revenue Bonds (the "Bonds") in order to pay a portion of the
cost of the Project, to fund a debt service reserve fund for the Bonds, to pay capitalized interest
on the Bonds, and to pay costs of issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the form of a trust indenture (the "Trust Indenture") dated as of April 1,
1985, to be entered into by and between the University and Citizens Trust, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, as Trustee (the "Trustee"). pursuant to which the Bonds will be issued and secured,
has been presented on the date of adoption hereof to the University; and
WHEREAS, John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated (the "Underwriter") has undertaken preliminary market analysis and has presented on the date of adoption hereof to the University a bond
purchase agreement (the "Bond Purchase Agreement") setting forth the terms and conditions
upon which John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated will agree to purchase the Bonds and the interest
rates thereof and the purchase price therefor:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The University hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds of
the University to be designated SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION MANAGEMENT EDUCATION REVENUE BONDS, in the aggregate principal amount of $3,365,000,
dated as of April 1, 1985, for the purpose of paying part of the cost of the construction,
acquisition, furnishing and equipping of the Project, funding a debt service reserve fund for the
Bonds equal to the maximum annual debt service exclusive of the last Year of debt service,
funding interest to accrue on the Bonds from the date of delivery thereof to February 1, 1986,
and paying costs Incidental to the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds shall mature serially on
April 1 in the years 1986 through 1995, inclusive, in the amounts and shall bear interest at the
rates for the respective maturities thereof as set forth in the form of the Trust Indenture
submitted to the University on the date of adoption hereof. The Bonds maturing April 1, 1995
shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity at the times and price and in the manner set
forth in said form of the Trust Indenture. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing October 1, 1985. The Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form in denominations of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof, shall be
payable as to principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and
shall be executed and authenticated, all as provided in the form of the Trust Indenture. The
Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price of
98.325% of the principal amount thereof ($3,308,636.25), plus accrued interest from April 1,
1985 to the date of delivery thereof.
2. The Bonds shall be payable solely from and secured by a first lien on the Program
Revenues (as defined in the Trust Indenture) and funds from time to time on deposit in the


249




250


APRIL MEETING, 1985


Reserve Fund, Bond Fund and Revenue Fund (each as defined in and created pursuant to the
Trust Indenture). The University will covenant in the Trust Indenture, in addition to other
requirements, that if the University has not deposited in the Bond Fund on or before January 1,
1995, sufficient funds to pay all principal and interest on the Bonds due on April 1, 1995, that
the University shall use its best efforts to issue and deliver bonds, notes or other obligations
payable from Program Revenues on or before March 15, 1995, in an amount sufficient to
provide net proceeds therefrom to be deposited into the Bond Fund in an amount equal to the
principal and interest due on the Bonds on April 1, 1995. In addition, the University will
covenant in the Trust Indenture to pledge in the future additional Legally Available Revenue
Sources (as defined in the Trust Indenture), including but not limited to unencumbered surplus
revenues from other housing and dining facilities of the University or unencumbered gifts,
grants or bequests, in the event that Net Revenues (as defined in the Trust Indenture) at any
time fall below certain specified amounts, or in the event it is necessary to utilize funds in the
Reserve Fund to pay principal or interest on the Bonds. Any such additionally pledged Legally
Available Revenue Sources shall become part of Program Revenues from and after the date of
such pledge. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or
premium on the Bonds or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the University
or any officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds
and interest with respect thereto become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal
or mixed of the State of Michigan or the University, other than the Program Revenues and the
funds from time to time on deposit in the Revenue Fund, the Reserve Fund and the Bond Fund,
all as more fully described in the Trust Indenture.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
and secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Program Revenues, upon compliance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the Trust Indenture.
4. The form of the Trust Indenture on file with the Secretary of the University is hereby
approved. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University
and C. W. Mathews, Controller, are hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf
of the University, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Trust Indenture in the form
approved, with such changes and insertions (other than the amount to be borrowed, the rates of
interest to be paid thereon, and the security pledged, all as shall be as provided in this
resolution) as they shall approve, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by their
execution of the Trust Indenture.
5. The form of the Bond Purchase Agreement on file with the Secretary of the University is
hereby approved. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the University and as
its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bond Purchase Agreement in the form approved with
such changes and insertions (other than the rates of interest and the purchase price for the
Bonds, all of which shall be as provided in this resolution) as he may approve, which approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by his execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement.
6. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University, or C.
W. Mathews, Controller, is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on
behalf of the University, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bonds by placing his
facsimile signature thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange for the
purchase price thereof, as provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
7. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary, the Controller, the
Investment Officer, the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are
hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and
documents for and on behalf of the University required by this resolution, the Trust Indenture.
or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the
issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, as contemplated hereby.
8. Citizens Trust, Ann Arbor, Michigan is hereby appointed Trustee for the Bonds.
9. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the University in conflict
herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.




APRIL MEETING, 1985


251


CERTIFICATION
I, the undersigned, RICHARD L. KENNEDY, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:
1. That I am the duly chosen, qualified and acting Secretary of the Regents of The
University of Michigan and keeper of the official records thereof;
2. That the foregoing is a full, true and compared copy, and the whole thereof, of a
resolution of the Regents of The University of Michigan, duly presented and adopted at a
meeting duly called and held by said Regents, at Ann Arbor, Michigan on
the                day of, 1985 at which a quorum was present and
voting and that public notice of said meeting was given and said meeting was conducted in full
compliance with the Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976;
3. That the following Regents were present:
and that the following
Regents were absent:
4. That said resolution was moved by Regent              and seconded by Regent, and that the following Regents voted in favor of said resolution: __
and that the following
Regents voted against said resolution: ___
5. That the resolution was adopted, is duly recorded in the minute books of the Regents of
The University of Michigan and is still in force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and the official seal of The University of
Michigan this                 day of, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary
Regents of The University
of Michigan




APPENDIX B
TRUST INDENTURE
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
and
Citizens Trust, Ann Arbor, Michigan, as Trustee
Dated as of April 1, 1985
$3,365,000
School of Business Administration
Management Education Revenue Bonds
TRUST INDENTURE
THIS TRUST INDENTURE, made and entered into as of the 1st day of April, A.D., 1985,
between the REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate, created by
the Constitution of the State of Michigan (the "Borrower") and Citizens Trust, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, a Michigan banking corporation qualified to do trust business in the State of
Michigan (together with any successor trustee as herein provided, the "Trustee")
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Borrower has previously established its School of Business Administration
Management Education Program (the "Program"), pursuant to which executives from business, governmental, charitable and other organizations participate in educational programs
designed to enhance strategic decision making capabilities and are provided an interdisciplinary
perspective on business problems; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower, in the exercise of its constitutional duties has determined it is
necessary and desirable to acquire, construct and equip an Executive Dormitory (the "Project")
on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan, to provide housing and
dining facilities for persons participating in the Program, and to pay all costs incurred in
connection with the acquisition, construction, furnishing and equipping of the Project, including
but not limited to architectural and engineering consulting, legal, bond insurance (if necessary)
and other costs incidental or ancillary thereto, or necessary for or incidental to the borrowing of
funds and the issuance of bonds as described herein (collectively the "Project Costs"); and
WHEREAS, the Borrower by resolution adopted April, 1985 (the "Resolution")
has determined, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, that it is necessary and advisable to
issue and sell the Borrower's School of Business Administration Management Education
Revenue Bonds in the principal amount of Three Million Three Hundred Sixty-five Thousand
Dollars ($3,365,000) (the "Bonds") for the purpose of providing funds which, together with
investment earnings and other available funds will be sufficient to (a) pay the Project Costs, (b)
pay interest on the Bonds accruing from the date of delivery thereof to February 1, 1986, and
(c) fund a debt service reserve for the Bonds in the amount equal to the maximum annual debt
service on the Bonds exclusive of the debt service in the fiscal year in which the Bonds are
scheduled for the final payment; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the
provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, with authority for
the supervision of the University of Michigan and the control and direction of expenditures of
the University's funds, and is fully empowered to issue the Bonds for the purposes set forth
herein; and
WHEREAS, the Borrower, by the Resolution, has authorized issuance of the Bonds and the
execution of this Trust Indenture by the officers designated for and on behalf, and as the act and
deed, of the Borrower; and
WHEREAS, the Trustee is duly empowered and authorized, and is willing to execute this
Trust Indenture and accept the obligations herein imposed;
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS TRUST INDENTURE WITNESSETH, that in order to secure
the payment of the principal of and interest on all Bonds at any time issued and outstanding
under this Trust Indenture, according to their tenor, and to secure the performance and
observance of the conditions and covenants therein and herein set forth, and to declare the terms
253




254


APRIL MEETING, 1985


and conditions upon and subject to which the Bonds are to be issued and received, and for and
in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained and of the purpose
and acceptance of the Bonds by the holders thereof, and for other valuable considerations, the
receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Trustee,
for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective holders from time to time of the Bonds,
as follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
Section 1.01. In addition to terms defined elsewhere in this Trust Indenture, the following
terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
BOND or BONDS. The terms "Bond" or "Bonds" shall mean the Regents of the
University of Michigan School of Business Administration Management Education Revenue
Bonds, issued pursuant to the terms hereof.
BOND FUND. The term "Bond Fund" shall mean the fund required to be established by
the Borrower with the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.02 hereof.
BONDHOLDER OR HOLDER. The terms "Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with
reference to Bonds) shall mean the registered owner of any Bond.
BOND PAYMENT DATE. The term "Bond Payment Date" shall mean any date on which
interest or principal and interest is payable on the Bonds, being April 1 and October 1 of each
year from and including October 1, 1985 to and including April 1, 1995.
FISCAL YEAR. The term "Fiscal Year" shall mean the Fiscal Year of the University
currently beginning on July 1 and ending on the succeeding June 30.
INVESTMENT INCOME. The term "Investment Income" shall mean and include all
interest or profit, when received, earned through the investment and reinvestment of (a) moneys
held in the Reserve Fund, (b) moneys held in the Bond Fund and (c) moneys held in the
Revenue Fund.
LEGALLY AVAILABLE FUNDS. The term "Legally Available Funds" shall mean any
moneys of the Borrower that may be legally used by the Borrower to pay principal of and
interest on the Bonds, but shall not include any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged for,
or committed to present or future loans, bonds or debt service on other obligations, or other
purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of which would result in the
Bonds herein authorized being construed as a general obligation of the Borrower or as
indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
LEGALLY AVAILABLE REVENUE SOURCES. The term "Legally Available Revenue
Sources" shall mean, any revenue or income streams which are otherwise unencumbered and
which are legally available for pledging by the Borrower for the payment of principal and
interest on the Bonds, including but not limited to unencumbered surplus revenues from other
housing and dining facilities of the Borrower, and unencumbered gifts, grants or bequests
which may legally be pledged for the payment of debt service on the Bonds.
NET REVENUES. The term "Net Revenues" shall mean, for any Fiscal Year, all Program
Revenues received or to be received in such Fiscal Year, less Operating Costs paid or to be paid
in such Fiscal Year.
OPERATING COSTS. The term "Operating Costs" shall mean all costs and expenses
required to be paid for the operation and maintenance of the Program, including the operation
and maintenance of the Project and including specifically the costs of acquiring food served or
prepared in the dining facilities included within the Project, which are properly chargeable,
under generally accepted accounting principles, to the Program or the Project, but shall not
include payment of debt service on the Bonds, depreciation or amortization.
OUTSTANDING or BONDS OUTSTANDING. The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds
outstanding" shall mean, as of any date, all Bonds theretofore or then being delivered under the
Trust Indenture except Bonds theretofore acquired by the Borrower and cancelled, and except
further that no Bonds shall be deemed outstanding where the Borrower shall have made
provision for payment thereof by depositing into a special trust account held by the Trustee or
other escrow agent cash or non-callable Government Obligations, as defined in Section 6.02,
the principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal,
premium, if any, and interest on said Bonds as the same becomes due through maturity or
earlier redemption (notice of such redemption or irrevocable instructions to so mail and publish
notice having been given to Trustee).




APRIL MEETING, 1985


255


PROGRAM REVENUES. The term "Program Revenues" shall mean for any Fiscal Year,
all Investment Income and all fees, charges, tuition, rentals, room charges, occupancy fees,
dining service income, and other income arising from or relating to the operation of the
Program, including the operation of the Project, and, from and after the date any additional
Legally Available Revenue Sources are pledged for the payment of the Bonds pursuant to
Section 7.04 hereof, all revenues, receipts and other income arising from such pledged Legally
Available Revenue Sources, in each case received in such Fiscal Year by the Borrower, but
shall not include the proceeds of indebtedness and investment earnings thereon, and shall not
include the proceeds of gifts, grants, or bequests (or investment earnings thereon to the extent
such investment earnings are restricted pursuant to the terms of such gift, grant or bequest for
purposes inconsistent with their use for the payment of debt service on the Bonds), unless such
gifts, grants or bequests have been specifically pledged for payment of the Bonds pursuant to
Section 7.04.
PROJECT FUND. The term "Project Fund" shall mean the fund required to be established
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 hereof.
RESERVE FUND. The term "Reserve Fund" shall mean the fund required to be established by the Borrower with the Trustee under Section 3.03 hereof.
REVENUE FUND. The term "Revenue Fund" shall mean the fund required to be established by the Borrower under Section 3.04 hereof.
SURPLUS REVENUES. The term "Surplus Revenues" shall mean in any Fiscal Year all
Program Revenues for such Fiscal Year remaining after the Borrower has made the deposits
required to be made in such fiscal year to the Bond fund pursuant to Section 4.05 hereof and to
the Reserve Fund to make up deficiencies therein as required by Section 4.05 hereof, and made
up any deficiencies in previously required deposits, and after the Borrower has paid all
Operating Costs for such Fiscal Year.
TRANSFER AGENT. The term "Transfer Agent" shall mean the Transfer Agent appointed
by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer
Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 hereof.
UNIVERSITY. The term "University" shall mean the University of Michigan.
ARTICLE II
ISSUANCE, NEGOTIATION AND REGISTRATION OF BONDS
Section 2.01. BOND TERMS. The Bonds shall be dated as of April 1, 1985, shall be in the
aggregate principal amount of Three Million Three Hundred Sixty-Five Thousand Dollars
($3,365,000), all to be equally secured as hereinafter set forth, shall be issued in fullyregistered form in the denomination of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof not exceeding the
principal amount of Bonds maturing in the year of maturity of the Bond specified, and shall be
numbered consecutively from 1 upwards. The Bonds shall mature serially and bear interest as
follows:
Principal                  Maturity                    Interest
Amount                      Date                        Rate
$   75,000                  April 1, 1986                  5.50%
80,000                  April 1, 1987                  6.00
85,000                  April 1, 1988                  6.50
90,000                  April 1, 1989                  7.00
100,000                  April 1, 1990                  7.50
105,000                  April 1, 1991                  7.75
115,000                  April 1, 1992                  8.00
120,000                  April 1,1993                   8.20
135,000                  April 1, 1994                  8.35
2,460,000                 April 1, 1995                   8.60
The Bonds shall bear interest payable on October 1, 1985 and semiannually thereafter on April
1 and October 1 of each year until payment of the principal amount thereof (together with
premium, if any) shall have been duly made as herein required or permitted. The principal
amount of, and redemption premium, if any, on each Bond shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America upon surrender of the Bond at the principal office of a bank or




256


APRIL MEETING, 1985


trust company designated by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University as
registrar and paying and transfer agent for the Bonds, or its successor (the "Transfer Agent"),
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as may be, on the respective dates of
payment thereof, legal tender for the payment of debts due the United States of America.
Interest on the Bonds shall be payable by check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent when due
to the person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each Bond Payment
Date, the registered holder of record at the registered address.
Section 2.02. FORM OF ISSUANCE. The form of the Bonds shall be substantially as
follows:
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
MANAGEMENT EDUCATION REVENUE BONDS
No.                 Maturity Date:               Principal Amount:
Interest Rate:                                    Date of Original Issue: April 1, 1985
Registered Holder:
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by and
existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan (the "University"), for value
received, hereby promises to pay the Principal amount shown above to the Registered Holder or
registered assigns, in lawful money of the United States of America on the Maturity Date,
shown above, with interest thereon until paid, from April 1, 1985 or such later date through
which interest on the Bond in exchange for which this Bond has been issued has been paid at
the Interest Rate shown above, first payable October 1, 1985, and semiannually thereafter on
April 1 and October 1. Principal of this bond is payable at the principal office of Citizens Trust,
in Ann Arbor, Michigan (the "Transfer Agent") or such other transfer agent as the University
may hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered owner not less than 60 days prior to
any interest payment date. Interest on this bond is payable by check or draft mailed by the
Transfer Agent to the person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each
interest payment date, the registered owner, at the registered address.
This bond is one of an issue of bonds designated Regents of the University of Michigan
School of Business Administration Management Education Revenue Bonds (the "Bonds"), of
like tenor, except as to denomination, rate of interest and date of maturity, aggregating the
principal amount of $, all issued pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the
University and a Trust Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of April 1, 1985 by and between
the University and Citizens Trust, Ann Arbor, Michigan as Trustee (the "Trustee") for the
purpose of paying part of the cost of the acquisition, construction, furnishing and equipping of a
housing and dining facility (the "Project") for persons participating in the University's School
of Business Administration Management Education Program (the "Program"), funding a
reserve fund for the Bonds, paying interest accruing on the Bonds to February 1, 1986 and
paying costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested
in the University by law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of
the Program Revenues'(defined in the Indenture). The Bonds are also secured by a Reserve
Fund to be funded on the date of delivery of the Bonds from the proceeds of the Bonds and by
the funds from time to time on deposit in the Bond Fund and the Revenue Fund, each created
pursuant to the Indenture. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of
or interest or premium on this Bond or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan,
the University or any officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor
shall these obligations become a lien on or be secured by any property, real personal, or mixed,




APRIL MEETING, 1985


257


of the State of Michigan or the University, other than the Program Revenues and funds from
time to time on deposit in the Revenue Fund, the Reserve Fund and the Bond Fund, as more
fully described in the Indenture. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the
issuance hereof, the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the funds from
which and the conditions under which this bond is payable, the general covenants and
provisions pursuant to which this bond is issued, the rights of the holders of Bonds, and the
right of the University to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority of lien on
the Program Revenues with the Bonds, and the terms and conditions under which this bond and
the series of Bonds of which this is one, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer
outstanding, reference is made to the above described Indenture. Copies of the Indenture are on
file at the principal office of the Trustee.
The Bonds maturing prior to April 1, 1995 shall not be subject to redemption prior to
maturity. Bonds maturing on April 1, 1995 shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity at
the option of the University on or after April 1, 1993, in whole at any time and in part by lot on
any interest payment date, at a price of 101% of the principal amount to be redeemed, plus
accrued interest to the redemption date.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the Bonds to be redeemed at
the registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer Agent. Bonds
shall be called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than
$5,000 shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the denomination of the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notice of redemption
for Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the Bond to be redeemed a new
Bond or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Bond
surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder. No
further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for redemption shall accrue after the
date fixed for redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand
with the Transfer Agent to redeem the same. Any Bond may be transferred by the person in
whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the
Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, together with a duly executed written instrument of
transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond is surrendered for
transfer, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University shall
execute or cause to be executed, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new
Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rate and maturity. The
Transfer Agent shall require the bondholder requesting the transfer to pay any tax or other
governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer. The Transfer Agent will
not (i) issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Bond during a period beginning at the
opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Bonds
selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing, or (ii)
register the transfer of or exchange any Bond selected for redemption in whole or in part,
except the unredeemed portion of Bonds being redeemed in part.
This Bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's Certificate of
Authentication on this Bond has been duly executed by the authorized signatory of the Transfer
Agent.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to
be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond, have been
done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by
law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this Bond
to be signed for it and in its behalf by the facsimile signature of its, all as of
April 1, 1985.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
By


Its




258


APRIL MEETING, 1985


Certificate of Authentication
This is to certify that the within Bond is one of the Regents of the University of Michigan
School of Business Administration Management Education Revenue Bonds described in the
Trust Indenture herein referred to.
CITIZENS TRUST
Date of Authentication:                       By
Authorized Agent
FORM OF ASSIGNMENT
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
Insert Social Security, or other Identifying Number of Assignee.
the within Bond of
the Regents of the University of Michigan and all rights thereunder and does hereby
irrevocably constitute and appoint
Attorney to
transfer the said Bond on the books for registration thereof, with full power of substitution in
the premises.
Dated:
In the presence of:
Signature(s) Guaranteed
Note:   The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the
face of this Bond in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any
change guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or
anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his authority to act must accompany
the Bond.
Section 2.03. LIMITED OELIGATION. The Bonds shall be limited obligations of the
Borrower equally and ratably and solely secured by the Program Revenues and any moneys in
the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund, and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State of
Michigan or a general obligation of the Borrower.
Section 2.04. EXECUTION, AUTHENTICATION AND DELIVERY. The Bonds shall be
signed in the name of and on behalf of the Borrower by facsimile signature of its Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or its Controller printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. No
Bond shall be valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of the Transfer Agent.
The Bonds, when executed and authenticated, shall be delivered by the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Controller to the purchaser thereof upon payment of the purchase
price therefor. Executed blank Bonds for registration of transfer shall be delivered to the
Transfer Agent for safekeeping concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds, and from time to
time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to
be such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, either as part of the initial delivery of the
Bonds or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid
and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The
Transfer Agent's certificate of authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have been
executed by it if signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be
necessary that the same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds issued
hereunder.
Section 2.05. TRANSFER OF THE BONDS. Any Bond may be transferred upon the books
required to be kept pursuant to this section by the person in whose name it is registered, in
person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the Bond for cancellation,




APRIL MEETING, 1985                                259
accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved
by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond or Bonds shall be surrendered for transfer, the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the Borrower shall execute or cause to
be executed, as specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a new
Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rate and maturity. The
Transfer Agent shall require the payment by the Bondholder requesting the transfer of any tax
or other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer.
The Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient books
for the registration and transfer of the Bonds, which shall at all times be open to inspection at
reasonable times by the Borrower and its auditors or their designees; and, upon presentation for
such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe,
transfer or cause to be transferred, on said books, Bonds as hereinbefore provided.
The Transfer Agent will not (i) issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Bond during
the period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a
notice of redemption of Bonds selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on
the day of that mailing, or (ii) register the transfer of or exchange any Bond sele#ted for
redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of Bonds being redeemed in
part.
Section 2.06. LOST, STOLEN, OR MUTILATED BONDS. Subject to and in accordance
with Act 354, Public Acts of Michigan, 1972, as amended ("Act 354"), if any bond shall
become mutilated, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the
Borrower, at the expense of the holder of the Bond, shall, without further action being required
by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be executed in the manner
specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor
in exchange and substitution for the mutilated bond, upon surrender to the Transfer Agent of the
mutilated Bond and receipt by the Transfer Agent and the Borrower of indemnity satisfactory to
them. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, if any bond issued under this Trust Indenture
shall be lost, destroyed or stolen, evidence of the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to
the Transfer Agent and, if this evidence is satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the
Borrower and indemnity satisfactory to the Transfer Agent and the Borrower shall be given, the
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller, at the expense of the owner, shall,
without further action being required by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or
cause to be executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall thereupon
authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor and bearing the statement required by Act
354, or any applicable Michigan law hereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution for the
Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Bond shall have matured or shall be about to
mature, instead of issuing a substitute bond the Transfer Agent may pay the same without
surrender thereof.
Section 2.07. CANCELLATION OF BONDS. All Bonds which have been retired by
maturity, redemption or purchase shall be cancelled by the Transfer Agent and an appropriate
certificate of cancellation with respect thereto delivered to the Borrower. Within 60 days
following the cancellation thereof, all cancelled Bonds shall be cremated and an appropriate
certificate of cremation delivered to the Borrower by the Transfer Agent.
Section 2.08 RESIGNATION OF TRANSFER AGENT. The Transfer Agent may resign by
giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Borrower, and the Borrower
may remove the Transfer Agent by giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to
the Transfer Agent. The Borrower shall designate a successor Transfer Agent and shall mail
notice of the appointment of the successor Transfer Agent to each registered owner of the
Bonds not less than sixty (60) days prior to the next interest payment date. Upon the
appointment of a successor Transfer Agent, the predecessor Transfer Agent shall transfer all
monies and funds, the registration books, and all other documents and instruments relating to
the Bonds held by it as Transfer Agent to the successor Transfer Agent.
Section 2.09. REDEMPTION OF BONDS. The Bonds may be redeemed, in part or in
whole, prior to maturity, in the order of priority, at the times, at the prices, upon the terms and
conditions, and upon the notice specified in the form of the Bond set forth in Section 2.02 of
this Trust Indenture. If the Borrower shall determine to redeem Bonds prior to the maturity
thereof, it shall give notice thereof in writing to the Transfer Agent not less than forty-eight (48)
days prior to the date upon which the Bonds are to be redeemed, which notice shall specify the
principal amount of the Bonds to be redeemed; and it shall be the duty of the Transfer Agent to
cause notice of the redemption to be given in the manner and at the times specified in the form




260


APRIL MEETING, 1985


of the Bond set out in Section 2.02 of this Trust Indenture. On or before the fifth day prior to
the date fixed for redemption, the Borrower shall pay to the Trustee for deposit in the Bond
Fund, in addition to any other payments that may be required by this Trust Indenture, a sum
which, together with moneys then on hand in the Bond Fund and available therefor, shall be
sufficient to pay the principal of and interest and redemption premiums on the Bonds to be
redeemed. Any such Bonds called for redemption shall cease to bear interest on the date fixed
for redemption, if sufficient funds have been deposited with the Trustee for the payment
thereof.
ARTICLE III
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 3.01. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROJECT FUND. There is hereby created and
established the Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account of
the Borrower designated by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be
deposited in the Project Fund (i) all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds, except accrued interest
and capitalized interest to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 4.01 and the
proceeds to be deposited in the Reserve Fund pursuant to Section 4.01, (ii) all investment
income on investments of the Project Fund and (iii) all Investment Income on investments of
the Reserve Fund and the Bond Fund prior to completion of the Project.
All moneys in the Project Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article IV
Section 3.02. ESTABLISHMENT OF BOND FUND. There is hereby created and established with the Trustee the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:
1. Any accrued interest received at the time of delivery of the Bonds  together with
an additional amount of proceeds of the Bonds equal to the interest to accrue on the
Bonds from the date of delivery thereof to February 1, 1986.
2. Program Revenues as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond Fund at the times
and in the amounts provided in Section 4.05.
3. All Legally Available Funds directed by the Borrower to be paid into the Bond Fund
pursuant to Section 5.02.
4. Moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements provided for in Article IV
and directedby the Borrower to be deposited therein.
5. Any moneys required to be deposited in the Bond Fund from the Reserve Fund as
provided in Section 4.04.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article IV.
Section 3.03. ESTABLISHMENT OF RESERVE FUND. There is hereby created and
established with the Trustee the Reserve Fund. There shall be deposited in the Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds a sum equal to Three Hundred Fifty-seven Thousand
Eight Hundred Thirty-two and 50/100 Dollars ($357,832.50). All moneys in the Reserve Fund
shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article IV.
Section 3.04. ESTABLISHMENT OF REVENUE FUND. There is hereby created and
established the Revenue Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account
of the Borrower designated by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Borrower.
From and after the date of delivery of the Bonds there shall be deposited in the Revenue Fund
as received all Program Revenues. All moneys in the Revenue Fund shall be used for the
purposes and disbursed as provided in Article IV.
ARTICLE IV
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 4.01. APPLICATION OF BOND PROCEEDS. Immediately upon the receipt
thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned among and deposited in the
Project Fund, the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund in the following manner:
1. Any accrued interest received on sale of the Bonds, together with the sum equal to the
interest to accrue on the Bonds from the date of delivery thereof to February 1, 1986,
shall be deposited in the Bond Fund;
2. A sum equal to $357,832.50 shall be deposited in the Reserve Fund; and




APRIL MEETING, 1985


261


3. The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Project Fund.
Section 4.02. USE OF AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM PROJECT FUND. Moneys in the
Project Fund shall be used pursuant to the following purposes:
1. Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing.and other expenses of the
Borrower in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds
and payment of bond insurance premiums for the Bonds, if such insurance is determined
to be necessary by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Borrower;
2. Payments necessary to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction, installation,
furnishing and equipping of the Project or to reimburse the Borrower for general funds
expended in connection with the foregoing.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall, as
directed by the Borrower, be promptly transferred to the Bond Fund or used by the Borrower
for payment of any other lawful capital costs of the Borrower related to or benefiting the
Program, as determined by the Borrower. The Borrower shall make disbursements from the
Project Fund for the purposes specified herein, and the Trustee shall have no duty or liability
with respect to the manner or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Project Fund or in fact are used or applied by the Borrower.
Section 4.03. USE OF AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM BOND FUND. On or before each
Bond Payment Date, the Trustee shall transfer to the Transfer Agent moneys in the Bond Fund
for use to pay principal and interest on the Bonds as the same become due and the Bonds are
presented and surrendered. The Trustee may use moneys in the Bond Fund not required to pay
principal or interest on the Bonds on the next Bond Payment Date for the acquisition of Bonds
in the open market at the written direction of the Borrower. Any amount remaining in the Bond
Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made therefor hereunder shall be returned to
the Borrower.
Section 4.04. USE OF AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM RESERVE FUND. If at any time
there are not sufficient funds in the Bond Fund for the payment of principal and interest on the
Bonds as the same become due, the Trustee shall withdraw from the Reserve Fund and deposit
in the Bond Fund sufficient moneys which when added to the moneys in the Bond Fund will be
sufficient to meet the payment of principal and interest then due on the Bonds. The Borrower
covenants and agrees that if at any time moneys are withdrawn from the Reserve Fund for such
purpose, there shall be promptly deposited from time to time in the Reserve Fund from the first
Program Revenues received thereafter which are not required to make principal or interest
payments on the Bonds or additional bonds secured on a parity basis with the Bonds issued as
provided in Section 6.01 hereof, a sum sufficient to replace the amount so withdrawn. To the
extent that Program Revenues shall not be sufficient for such replacement and for the replacement of withdrawals from reserves for such additional parity bonds, the amount deposited in the
Reserve Fund in accordance herewith shall be in proportion to the total requirements for
replacement of withdrawals from the Reserve Fund and the reserves for such additional parity
bonds and shall be measured by the principal amount of the Bonds and such additional parity
bonds at the time outstanding.
At the written direction of the Borrower the moneys in the Reserve Fund shall be finally
transferred to the Bond Fund by the Trustee and applied in payment of the Bonds and interest
thereon at such time as the balance in the Reserve Fund, together with any amount in the Bond
Fund, shall be sufficient for payment in full of the principal of all Bonds, including interest
thereon through maturity. Any balance remaining thereafter in the Reserve Fund shall be
returned to the Borrower by the Trustee.
Section 4.05. USE OF AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM REVENUE FUND. On or before
the date which is 15 days prior to each Bond Payment Date, the Borrower shall transfer from
the Revenue Fund to the Bond Fund sufficient moneys to pay the interest or principal and
interest due on the Bonds on such Bond Payment Date. Prior to making the transfer required by
the preceding sentence, the Borrower shall use moneys in the Revenue Fund solely to pay
Operating Costs; provided, however, that the Borrower shall manage the Program and the
payment of Operating Costs in such a manner that sufficient funds shall be available in the
Revenue Fund to make the transfers to the Bond Fund on the dates required. After making the
required transfers to the Bond Fund as required by this Section 4.05 and to the Reserve Fund to
make up deficiencies therein as required by Section 4.04 hereof, and after making up any
deficiencies in previously required transfers, and after the payment of Operating Costs in each
Fiscal Year, Surplus Revenues may be withdrawn from the Revenue Fund and used for any
lawful purpose of the Borrower.




262


APRIL MEETING, 1985


Section 4.06. INVESTMENT OF FUNDS. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until required
for use, and in the Reserve Fund shall be invested by the Trustee in direct obligations of, or
obligations the principal and the interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of
America; or obligations of Federal Farm Credit Banks, Federal Home LoanBanks, the Federal
National Mortgage Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the
Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the
Bank for Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association; or may be deposited in a bank or banks (including
the Trustee) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances or in
certificates of deposit as shall be directed by the Borrower. Moneys held in the Revenue Fund
may be invested in any investments legally available for University funds.
Interest or profit earned on the above investments or deposits, when received (but excluding
all investment earnings on investments of the Reserve Fund and the Bond Fund received prior
to completion of the Project, which shall be deposited in the Project Fund) shall be deposited in
the Revenue Fund. Any loss on the above investments or deposits shall be charged to the Fund
for which such investment or deposit was made.
Moneys held in the Project Fund may be invested in any investments legally available for
University funds.
Section 4.07. ARBITRAGE. The Borrower shall make no use of the proceeds of the sale of
the Bonds, or of any other funds deemed to be proceeds of the Bonds pursuant to 103(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the regulations propounded thereunder (the
"Code"), which could cause the Bonds to be or become "arbitrage bonds" as defined in the
Code.
ARTICLE V
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 5.01. SECURITY FOR THE BONDS. The Bonds are not debts or general obligations of the State of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Borrower, but are limited
obligations of the Borrower equally and ratably secured only by the following:
1. All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2. All moneys in the Reserve Fund;
3. Program Revenues and the Borrower's right to receive Program Revenues; and
4. All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The Borrower hereby pledges and grants to the Trustee for the benefit of the Bondholders a
security interest in all of the foregoing, and in order to assure this security the Borrower
covenants and agrees that the Trustee shall have a first lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund, the
Revenue Fund and the Reserve Fund, and that the Trustee shall have a first lien against
Program Revenues of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge of Program Revenues
for additional bonds, secured on a parity basis with the Bonds which the Borrower reserves the
right to issue under Article VI. The lien of the pledge of the Program Revenues, and on the
Bond Fund, the Revenue Fund and the Reserve Fund, shall be valid and binding from the date
of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or properties subject thereto which are
thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without physical
delivery or further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and binding against all parties
having claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Borrower (except for the holders of any
additional bonds of the Borrower payable from a parity first lien on Program Revenues)
irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Section 5.02. LEGALLY AVAILABLE FUNDS AS SOURCE OF PAYMENT FOR THE
BONDS. The Borrower reserves the right, but shall not be required, to use any Legally
Available Funds for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the Bonds.
Section 5.03. LIMITATIONS OF OBLIGATIONS. No recourse under any obligation,
covenant, stipulation or indenture contained in this Trust Indenture or in any Bond issued
hereunder or caused by the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had against
the State of Michigan, or the Borrower or any member or officer of the Borrower or the
University; nor shall any such obligation ever be or become a charge against the State of
Michigan, nor shall the same become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or
mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Borrower, it being expressly understood and agreed that
the Bonds and the obligations created hereunder are secured by and payable only from Program
Revenues and moneys in the Bond Fund, the Revenue Fund and the Reserve Fund, and that no




APRIL MEETING, 1985


263


other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the State of Michigan, the Borrower,
or any member or officer of the University, or its successors; all other liability, except as herein
provided, being expressly waived.
ARTICLE VI
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIOGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 6.01. ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS. The borrower reserves the right to
issue additional bonds for any authorized purpose having equal standing and priority of lien
against the program Revenues with the Bonds provided:
(a) the Borrower by its Controller certifies that the average of Net Revenues for the two
most recently completed Fiscal Years of the Borrower for which the audited financial
reports have been completed (the latest of which shall have ended within 18 months prior to
the issuance of the proposed additional bonds) are equal to or greater than 200% of the
maximum annual debt service on the Bonds, any previously issued additional bonds secured
on a parity basis with the Bonds and the additional bonds proposed to be issued. In
computing maximum annual debt service, the Controller shall disregard the actual required
debt service on the Bonds only and use instead the average annual debt service on the Bonds
from the date of issuance of the Bonds to the final maturity thereof.
(b) the proposed additional bonds shall be payable as to principal only on April 1 of the
year or years of maturity and payable as to interest either annually or semiannually onApril
1 or October 1 of such years.
Section 6.02. DEFEASANCE. If all the Bonds shall have become due and payable in
accordance with their terms or are to be paid at their maturity or maturities or are to be
redeemed prior to maturity (notice of redemption, or irrevocable instructions to the Transfer
Agent to give such notice, having been duly given) and the whole amount of the principal and
the interest so due and payable upon all of the Bonds then outstanding shall be paid or sufficient
cash, or cash and non-callable direct obligations of or non-callable obligations fully guaranteed
by, the United States Treasury, including specifically maturing interests in a fund composed
entirely of obligations of the United States Treasury which will produce sufficient revenues to
pay all maturing interests therein when due ("Government Obligations"), the principal of and
the interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable, will provide sufficient
moneys for such payment, shall be held by the Trustee in the Bond Fund or by any other
escrow agent in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds, then and in that case this Trust
Indenture shall be defeased and terminated and all obligations of the Borrower hereunder shall
thereupon cease, terminate and become void and, on demand of the Borrower, any surplus in
the Bond Fund other than money held for the payment of the Bonds shall be transferred to the
Borrower; provided, that the applicable provisions of this Trust Indenture pertaining to the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds and registration and transfer of Bonds
shall be continued in force until such have been fully paid.
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which cash or cash and Government Obligations (including
principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Trustee or other escrow agent in trust for
the holders of said Bonds or portions of Bonds sufficient to pay all principal and interest
through maturity or earlier redemption (notice of redemption, or irrevocable instructions to the
Transfer Agent to give such notice, having been duly given) shall no longer be outstanding
hereunder, and the holders thereof shall have no further rights hereunder or under the Bonds
except the right to receive payment from the cash or cash and Government Obligations held in
trust as specified above.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Trustee or other escrow agent as
described above shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when due, of the Bonds
payable therewith.
ARTICLE VII
FURTHER COVENANTS
The Borrower covenants and agrees with the Trustee for the benefit of the holders of the
Bonds as follows:
Section 7.01 COMPLETION OF PROJECT. In the event that the moneys deposited in the
Project Fund, including Investment Income on the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund and the
Project Fund received prior to the completion of the Project, are insufficient to pay all costs of




264


APRIL MEETING, 1985


completing the acquisition, construction, furnishing and equipping of the Project, the Borrower
hereby covenants that it shall nevertheless cause the completion of the Project in accordance
with the plans and specifications therefor, using Legally Available Funds.
Section 7.02. OPERATION OF THE PROGRAM. The Borrower covenants that it will at
all times when Bonds are outstanding use its best efforts to operate the Program on a
self-liquidating basis in such a manner so that sufficient Program Revenues will be generated to
pay principal and interest on the Bonds and operating costs.
Section 7.03. MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF THE PROJECT.
The Borrower hereby covenants that it shall operate the Project in such a way so that the
Program Revenues will be sufficient to pay principal and interest on the Bonds when due and to
pay operating costs, and shall maintain the Project in a sufficient manner to allow its operation
in accordance with this sentence.
Section 7.04. BUDGET FOR OPERATION OF THE PROGRAM. The Borrower hereby
covenants to annually establish a budget for the operation of the Program for each Fiscal Year
sufficient to provide Net Revenues equal to (a) in each Fiscal Year commencing after the
delivery of the Bonds to and including the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 1994 at least 200% of
that Fiscal Year's debt service requirements on the Bonds; and (b) for the Fiscal Year ending
June 30, 1995, at least 120% of the difference between the debt service on the Bonds due in
such Fiscal Year and the amount of moneys then on deposit in the Reserve Fund. In the event
that the Borrower is unable to establish a budget for any Fiscal Year, using then projected
Program Revenues and Operating Costs for such Fiscal Year, which complies with the
requirements set forth in the preceding sentence, the Borrower shall promptly pledge additional
Legally Available Revenue Sources, to the extent such sources are available, as additional
Program Revenues, in amounts sufficient so that the budget for such Fiscal Year shall meet the
requirements set forth above. If, during the course of any Fiscal Year, it is necessary to utilize
moneys in the Reserve Fund to pay debt service on the Bonds as a result of insufficient funds
being held in the Revenue Fund for transfer to the Bond Fund as required hereby, the Borrower
shall promptly pledge additional Legally Available Revenue Sources, to the extent such sources
are available, as additional Program Revenues, and shall amend the budget for the Program for
such Fiscal Year based on the Borrower's experience to date and then present projections of
Program Revenues and Operating Costs, all in such a manner so that the Program budget for
such Fiscal Year as so amended shall comply with the requirements set forth above. The
Borrower further covenants to establish and maintain, so long as any of the Bonds are
outstanding, such fees, tuition charges, rental rates, room charges, occupancy charges and
dining service rates as from time to time may be necessary to operate the Program, including
the Project, in such a manner as to provide sufficient Program Revenues to pay the principal
and interest on the Bonds and the Operating Costs. If in any Fiscal Year the actual Net
Revenues realized are less than 125% of that year's annual debt service requirements on the
Bonds, the Borrower hereby covenants that it will promptly pledge additional Legally Available
Revenue Sources, to the extent such sources are available, in such amounts sufficient to
produce Net Revenues for the Fiscal Year immediately succeeding the Fiscal Year in which Net
Revenues were less than 125% of Bond debt service equal to the amounts required by the first
sentence of this Section 7.04, and to amend its annual budget for the Proqram as necessary to
reflect such additional pledged revenues. The proceeds of any additional Legally Available
Revenue Sources pledged for payment of principal and interest on the Bonds pursuant to this
Section 7.04 shall become part of Program Revenues, from and after the date of their pledge
and shall thereafter be deposited, as received, into the Revenue Fund. Upon the occurrence of
any event requiring the pledge of additional Legally Available Revenue Sources pursuant to this
Section 7.04, the Borrower shall give immediate notice of such occurrence to the Trustee and
shall promptly thereafter identify to the Trustee the additional Legally Available Revenue
Sources to be pledged, and the Trustee and the Borrower shall thereupon promptly take such
actions, including, if necessary, entering into an amendment to this Trust Indenture, necessary
to effect such pledge.
Section 7.05. COVENANT TO ISSUE REFUNDING BONDS. The Borrower hereby
covenants that in the event the Borrower has not deposited by January 1, 1995, sufficient funds
in the Bond Fund to pay all principal and interest due on the Bonds on April 1, 1995, the
Borrower shall use its best efforts to issue and deliver bonds, notes or other obligations payable
from Program Revenues prior to March 15, 1995 in an amount sufficient to produce net
available proceeds therefrom sufficient to provide for the payment in full of all principal and
interest due on the Bonds on April 1, 1995.




APRIL MEETING, 1985


265


Section 7.06. COVENANT NOT TO MORTGAGE OR ENCUMBER. The Borrower
hereby covenants that it will not mortgage, create or allow the creation of a lien on, or
otherwise encumber the Project or the Program Revenues, so long as any Bonds are outstanding, except as specifically provided herein.
Section 7.07. INSURANCE ON COMPLETED PROJECT. The Borrower covenants and
agrees that it will procure and maintain insurance as follows, but only to the extent such
insurance is reasonably available in the insurance market of the United States:
(a) Fire and Extended Coverage. Upon acceptance of the Project from the contractor,
the Borrower shall, if such insurance is not already in force, procure Fire and Extended
Coverage Insurance on the Project. Such Fire and Extended Coverage Insurance shall be
maintained so long as any Bond remains outstanding and shall be in amounts sufficient to
provide for not less than full recovery whenever a loss from perils insured against does not
exceed eighty per cent (80%) of the full insurable value of the damaged building. In the
event of any damage to or destruction of the insured facilities, the Borrower shall promptly
arrange for the application of the insurance proceeds for the repair or reconstruction of the
damaged or destroyed portion thereof, or retire outstanding bonds. The Borrower shall at
the same time procure and maintain, so long as any Bond remains outstanding, like
insurance upon the contents of the Project in an amount equal to their full insurable value.
(b) Boiler Insurance. The Borrower shall, if such insurance is not already in force,
procure and maintain, so long as any Bonds remain outstanding, Boiler Insurance covering
any steam boilers servicing the Project in a minimum amount of Ten Million Dollars
($10,000,000).
(c) Liability Insurance. The Borrower shall, if such insurance is not already in force,
procure and maintain, so long as any Bonds remain outstanding, Public Liability Insurance
with limits of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) for one person and Two
Million Dollars ($2,000,000) for more than one person involved in one accident to protect
the Borrower from claims for bodily injury and/or death which may arise from Borrower's
operations, including any use or occupancy of its grounds, structures and vehicles.
(d) Use and Occupancy Insurance. The Borrower shall procure and maintain Use and
Occupancy Insurance on the Project in an amount sufficient to enable the Borrower to
deposit in the Bond Fund out of the proceeds of such insurance an amount equal to the sum
that would normally have been available for deposit in such account from the revenues of
the damaged building during the time the damaged building is non-revenue producing as a
result of loss of use caused by the perils covered by Fire and Extended Coverage Insurance.
Insurance required above may be evidenced by inclusion of the Project in and under a
Blanket Policy covering the Project and other properties of the Borrower, or by umbrella
coverage, and certificates evidencing the carrying of insurance on the Project herein designated,
with (except for liability policies) loss clauses attached payable to the Trustee as its interest may
appear, shall upon request of the Trustee, be deposited with the Trustee and the Trustee shall
have a first lien on all payments made on the same, up to, but not to exceed the face value of
Bonds outstanding. Each insurance policy required hereby may contain deductible clauses not
exceeding $100,000. In case of loss, the Trustee shall at the direction of the Borrower deposit
the insurance proceeds in the Bond Fund, or apply the proceeds of said insurance to the repair
and restoration of the building and the contents thereof, wholly or partially destroyed, to its or
their former condition, or in such other manner as will make the building useable or tenantable,
to the satisfaction of the Trustee and the Borrower: Provided, however, if in the judgment of the
Trustee, the funds received from said insurance policies together with other funds made
available by the Borrower shall be insufficient to make the Project useable or tenantable, then,
in that event, the Borrower shall forthwith apply the proceeds thereof to the retirement of the
outstanding Bonds, and the Trustee may hold the funds paid to it by reason of such loss for the
equal and ratable enefit of the holders of all outstanding Bonds and the retirement thereof.
In the event the Borrower in good faith determines that any insurance required above is not
commercially available at a reasonable cost with reasonable terms, it shall so certify to the
Trustee and notify the Trustee that it proposes to engage an independent insurance consultant to
make recommendations regarding the types, amounts and provisions of any such insurance that
should be purchased by the Borrower and alternative or supplementary programs to provide
protection against the types of the liabilities covered by such insurance. The Borrower may,
upon the recommendations of such insurance consultant, adopt alternative or supplemental risk
management programs which the Borrower determines to be reasonable and which shall not
have a material adverse impact on the Program Revenues, including, without limitation, the




266


APRIL MEETING, 1985


right: to self-insure in whole or in part; to organize, either solely or in connection with other
institutions or organizations, captive insurance companies; to participate in programs of captive
insurance companies organized by others; to establish a self-insurance trust fund; to participate
in mutual or other cooperative insurance or other risk management programs with other
institutions or organizations; to participate in or enter into agreements with local, state or
federal governments in order to achieve such insurance; or to participate in other alternative risk
management programs. A copy of any such recommendations by such insurance consultant
shall be filed with the Trustee and the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Trustee in writing
a copy of each alternative risk management program that has been adopted by the Borrower and
thereupon such alternative insurance requirements or risk management programs shall be
substituted for the appropriate requirements hereof.
Section 7.08. AUDITS AND RECORDS. The Borrower shall keep and maintain accurate
books and records relating to the collection of Program Revenues and the payment of Operating
Costs and the payments into the Revenue Fund, the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund, which
said books and records shall be open for inspection by the Trustee and any holder of the Bonds
at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited annually by a certified public
accountant and a copy of said audit sent to the Trustee not later than five months after the end
of each Fiscal Year.
Section 7.09. PERFORMANCE OF COVENANTS; AUTHORITY. The Borrower shall
faithfully perform all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in
this Trust Indenture and in any Bond executed and delivered hereunder and in all other
proceedings of the Borrower pertaining thereto. The Borrower is duly authorized under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to enter into this Trust
Indenture, to issue the Bonds, to pledge Program Revenues in the manner and to he extent
herein set forth, and to acquire, construct, install, and operate the Project as contemplated by
this Trust Indenture; all action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution, the
execution and delivery of this Trust Indenture and the issuance, execution and delivery of any
Bonds has been or will be duly and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and
the Bonds in the hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable
limited obligations of the Borrower according to their terms.
ARTICLE VIII
REMEDY ON DEFAULT AND PROCEEDS THEREFROM
Section 8.01. REMEDY ON DEFAULT. In the event default shall be made in the due and
punctual payment of the principal amount of or interest on any of the Bonds, or the Borrower
shall fail to make any required deposit to the Bond Fund within 5 days after the same is due, or
in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or provision herein required to
be kept or performed by the Borrower, and such default, other than payment of principal and
interest and other than the required deposits to the Bond Fund, shall continue for a period of
thirty (30) days after written notice thereof is given to the Borrower by the Trustee, which
notice the Trustee must give upon the written request of the holders of twenty-five percent
(25%) in amount of Bonds then outstanding, the Trustee may proceed to protect or enforce the
rights of the Trustee and the holders of the Bonds, either by mandamus to compel the Borrower
to perform each and every covenant herein contained, or by injunction to prevent the Borrower
from taking any action in violation of said covenants.
Such rights and remedies shall be cumulative, and any one or more thereof may be
exercised by the Trustee sucessfully from time to time.
The Borrower expressly authorizes the Trustee to bring any of the actions hereinbefore
mentioned and hereby waives, to the extent that it may lawfully do so, any immunity to
process, as herein authorized, which may exist by reason of its being a Department of
Government of the State of Michigan.
Section 8.02. BONDHOLDERS MAY DIRECT ACTION ON DEFAULT. The holders of a
majority in the aggregate principal amount of Bonds outstanding shall have the right to direct
the method of conducting any and all proceedings hereunder for the enforcement of this Trust
Indenture, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to take any action under this Trust Indenture
and said direction unless it shall be tendered indemnity sufficient to pay all necessary expenses
incident thereto, including court costs and attorneys' fees.
Section 8.03. EVIDENCE OF RIGHTS OF BONDHOLDERS. Any request or other
instrument which this Trust Indenture may require or permit to be filed and executed by the




APRIL MEETING, 1985


267


holders of the Bonds may be in any number of concurrent instruments of similar tenor, and may
be filed or executed by such holders of Bonds in person or by attorney, in writing. Proof of the
execution of any such request or other instrument, or of a writing appointing any such agent, or
of the holding by any person of Bonds, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Trust
Indenture if made in the following manner:
(a) The fact and date of the execution by any person of such request or other instrument
in writing may be proved by the certificate of any Notary Public or other officer, authorized
to take acknowledgments of deeds to be recorded in any state, that the person signing such
request or other instrument executed the same, or by an affidavit of a witness to such
execution;
(b) The ownership of registered Bonds shall be proved by the registry books.
The Trustee may, however, in its discretion, require further proof in cases where it deems
further proof desirable.
The Trustee shall not be bound to recognize any person as the holder of a Bond unless and
until title to the Bonds held by such person is proved in the manner provided in this Article.
Section 8.04. LIMITATION ON RIGHT OF BONDHOLDERS TO ACT. No holder of any
Bond or coupon pertaining thereto shall have any right to institute any suit, action or proceeding
for any remedy hereunder or relating thereto unless such holder previously shall have given to
the Trustee written notice of such default and of the continuance thereof, as herein provided;
nor unless also the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Bonds outstanding
shall have made written request upon the Trustee and shall have afforded it a reasonable
opportunity either to proceed to exercise the powers herein granted or to institute such action,
suit or proceedings in its own name; nor unless also they shall have offered to the Trustee
adequate security and indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein
or thereby, and have or shall have agreed to deposit their Bonds with the Trustee upon request;
and such notifications, requests and offers of indemnity are hereby declared in every such case,
at the option of the Trustee, to be conditions precedent to the exercise of the powers and trusts
of this Trust Indenture for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds, and to any action or cause of
action, or for any other remedy hereunder or relating thereto, it being understood and intended
that no one or more holders of Bonds shall have any right in any manner whatever, by his or
their action, to affect, disturb or prejudice the lien under this Trust Indenture, and to enforce
any rights hereunder except in the manner herein provided, and that all proceedings shall be
instituted, had and maintained in the manner herein provided and for the equal benefit of all
holders of such outstanding Bonds. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed as
granting to the holder of any Bond or coupon secured hereby the right to bring any action or
proceeding which the Trustee is not expressly authorized to bring; provided, however, if the
holders of a majority in the aggregate principal amount of Bonds outstanding shall have
complied with all conditions prerequisite to the requiring of action on the part of the Trustee
and said Trustee shall refuse to act, then one or more of the holders of the Bonds shall have the
right to bring any action or actions as the Trustee might have instituted for and on behalf of the
holders of all outstanding Bonds.
Section 8.05. POWER TO WAIVE DEFAULT. The Trustee may, and upon written request
of the holders of a majority in principal amount of Bonds outstanding shall, waive any default
hereunder upon compliance by the Borrower with all of the covenants, conditions and provisions hereof, including payment in full of all amounts then due under the terms hereof and any
expenses incurred by the trustee. No such waiver shall (a) extend to or affect any subsequent or
other then existing default or (b) impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 8.06. PROCEEDS FROM ACTION OF TRUSTEE OR BONDHOLDERS. Any
proceeds received by the Trustee under the provisions of this Article VIII shall be applied as
follows:
(a) To the payment of all costs of any suit or suits undertaken to enforce the provisions
hereof, together with reasonable fees and expenses, including repayment of any moneys
advanced by the Trustee or by any of the holders of Bonds, with interest at a rate of not to
exceed the prime rate of the Trustee then in effect;
(b) To the payment, first of interest, and then of principal, with interest at the rate
allowed by law on past due interest, without preference of one Bond over any other or of
one installment of interest over any other installment of interest;
(c) The remainder, if any, shall be paid to the Borrower.




268


APRIL MEETING, 1985


ARTICLE IX
CONCERNING THE TRUSTEE
Section 9.01. ACCEPTANCE OF TRUST AND CONDITIONS THEREOF. The Trustee,
for itself and its successors, hereby accepts the trust and assumes the duties herein created and
imposed, but only upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
(a) The recital of facts herein and in t#e Bonds shall be taken as statement by the
Borrower and shall not be construed as made by the Trustee;
(b) The Trustee shall have no responsibility for (i) the validity, execution or acknowledgement hereof or of any Bonds, or (ii) the nature, extent or amount of the security
afforded hereby, or (iii) any breach by the Borrower of any covenants herein contained;
(c) The Trustee, save for negligence or willful misconduct, shall not be liable for any
loss or damage whatsoever arising out of any action or failure to act in connection with the
obligations of this Trust Indenture, including but not limited to the diminution of the value
of investments; and the Trustee shall not be liable for the exercise of any discretion or
power thereunder, mistakes or errors of judgment, or otherwise, except for willful misconduct or negligence;
(d) The Trustee shall be protected in any action taken upon any notice, resolution, vote,
request, consent, certificate, affidavit, statement or other paper believed by its officers to be
genuine and to have been passed or signed by the proper party or parties. The Trustee shall
not be bound to recognize any person as a holder of a Bond unless and until the same is
submitted to the Trustee for inspection and title thereto has been satisfactorily established, if
disputed;
(e) The Trustee may select and employ suitable agents and attorneys. The Trustee may
act upon the opinion or advice of any attorney (who may be an attorney for the Borrower)
approved by the Trustee in the exercise of its reasonable judgment, and shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage resulting from reliance in good faith upon such opinion
or advice. The reasonable compensation and expense of the Trustee and such agents and
attorneys shall be paid by the Borrower. The Trustee shall be under no obligation or duty to
perform any act hereunder or defend any suit unless indemnified to its satisfaction.
Section 9.02. RIGHT OF TRUSTEE TO RESIGN AND REMOVAL OF TRUSTEE. The
Trustee and any successor Trustee may at any time resign by giving 30 days written notice to
the Borrower and such resignation shall take effect at the end of such 30 days or upon the
earlier appointment of a successor Trustee. The Trustee, and any successor Trustee may be
removed at any time, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing delivered to the
Trustee and the Borrower and signed by the owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount
of Bonds then outstanding. In case the Trustee shall resign or be removed, or be dissolved, or
shall be in course of dissolution or liquidation, or otherwise become incapable of acting
hereunder, or shall be taken under the control of any public officer or officers, or of a receiver
appointed by a court, a successor may be appointed by the owners of a majority of aggregate
principal amount of Bonds then outstanding, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in
writing signed by such owners, or by their attorneys in fact, duly authorized; provided,
however, that in case of such vacancy the Borrower by an instrument executed and signed by an
authorized officer under its seal, shall forthwith appoint a Trustee to fill such vacancy
unless and until a successor Trustee shall be appointed by the holders of the Bonds in
the manner above provided, and any such Trustee appointed by the Borrower shall immediately and without further act be superseded by a successor Trustee, if any, so appointed
by such holders of the Bonds. Every such Trustee appointed pursuant to the provisions of this
Section shall be a trust company or bank in good standing, within the State of Michigan,
having a reported capital and surplus of not less than Ten Million ($10,000,000) Dollars
if there be such an institution willing, qualified and able to accept the trust upon reasonable or
customary terms.
Section 9.03. FUNDS TO BE HELD IN TRUST. Until disbursed for the purposes authorized by this Trust Indenture, all funds held on deposit by the Trustee shall be held by the
Trustee as trust funds for the benefit and security of the holders of the Bonds from time to time
outstanding, and the Trustee shall not be liable for interest on such sums, except to the extent of
income actually earned from investments herein authorized and directed, if the provisions of
this Trust Indenture are carried out.




APRIL MEETING, 1985


269


Section 9.04. RIGHT TO RECOGNIZE HOLDER OF BONDS, ETC. The Trustee and the
Borrower shall each be protected in treating the registered owner of any Bond as the true owner
thereof for all purposes, and shall not be charged with any notice to the contrary.
Section 9.05. SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE. Any corporation into which the Trustee may be
merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger or
consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any state or national bank or trust
company in any manner succeeding to the corporate trust business of the Trustee or of any
successor Trustee as a whole or substantially as a whole, shall be the successor of the Trustee
hereunder, without the execution or filing of any paper or any futher act on the part of any of
the parties hereto, anything to the contrary contained herein notwithstanding.
ARTICLE X
IMMUNITY OF BOARD MEMBERS AND OFFICERS
Section 10.01. It is mutually agreed that no recourse to any personal liability shall be had
for any redress under any of the obligations, covenants or indenture of this instrument, or of the
Bonds upon, from or to any officer of the State of Michigan or the University or member of the
Borrower, either directly or through the University or the Borrower by proceedings by virtue of
any statute or otherwise, it being hereby expressly agreed that no personal liability whatever
shall attach to or be incurred by said officers or board members, or any or either of them, under
or
by reason of any or either of the obligations, covenants or indentures herein contained, or in
any of the Bonds, expressed and contained therein, or implied therefrom.
ARTICLE XI
AMENDMENTS TO TRUST INDENTURE
Section 11.01 AMENDMENTS TO TRUST INDENTURE NOT REQUIRING CONSENT
OF BONDHOLDERS. The Borrower and the Trustee may execute and deliver, without the
consent of the Bondholders amendments to this Trust Indenture as shall not be inconsistent with
the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional parity obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the Program Revenues or to grant or pledge to the
holders of the Bonds any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the Borrower for the purpose of
further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of parity obligations by the Borrower;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in this Trust Indenture;
(f) To make any change which, in the judgment of the Trustee, acting, if necessary, in
reliance upon an opinion of counsel, is not to the prejudice of the holders of the Bonds.
Section 11.02 AMENDMENT TO TRUST INDENTURE REQUIRING CONSENT OF
BONDHOLDERS. Exclusive of amendments to this Trust Indenture covered by Section 11.01
for which consent of Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than 51% in the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding shall have the right to consent to the
execution and delivery by the Trustee and the Borrower of amendments to this Trust Indenture
as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the Borrower; provided, however, that nothing
contained in this Section shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the
maturity of the principal of or the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in
the principal amount of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority of
any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate principal
amount of the bonds required for consent to such amendments to this Trust Indenture.
If the Borrower shall propose to enter into an amendment to this Trust Indenture requiring
consent of the Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental
resolution to be published in newspapers or financial journals circulated in New York, New
York, and Detroit, Michigan, respectively, which carry as part of their regular service notices
of sale of municipal bonds. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed
amendment and shall state that copies thereof are on file at the principal offices of the Borrower
and Trustee for inspection by all Bondholders. If within six months following the publication of
such notice, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds




270


APRIL MEETING, 1985


outstanding at the time of the publication such notice shall have consented in writing to the
amendment, upon the execution and delivery thereof, this Trust Indenture shall be deemed to be
amended in accordance therewith.
ARTICLE XII
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 12.01. NOTICES.All notices, certificates, requests, complaints, demands or other
communications under this Trust Indenture shall be deemed sufficiently given when sent by
telegram or first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to the Borrower, to The
University of Michigan, Attention: Investment Officer, Administration Building, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, 48109 and, if to the Trustee, at the principal office of the Trustee, 100 South Main
Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48104, Attention' Corporate Trust Department. The Borrower
and the Trustee may by notice given hereunder in writing designate any further or different
addresses to which subsequent notices, certificates, requests, complaints, demands or other
communications hereunder shall be sent.
Section 12.02. INVALID PROVISIONS. Should any provision, sentence or section of this
Trust Indenture be held invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed as affecting
the validity of any remaining portion of said section or of this Trust Indenture.
Section 12.03. INDENTURE EXECUTED IN COUNTERPARTS. This Trust Indenture
may be executed simultaneously in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be
an original, and such counterparts together shall and will constitute one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan, has caused these
presents to be signed by its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and its Controller, and
sealed with its corporate seal; and Citizens Trust, to evidence the acceptance of the trust, has
caused these presents to be executed in its behalf by its _,
attested by its, and its corporate seal to be hereunto
affixed, all as of the first day of April, A.D.,
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
(SEAL)                    By
J. F. Brinkerhoff
Its Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
By
C. W. Matthews
Its Controller
CITIZENS TRUST, as Trustee
(SEAL)                   By


Its




MAY MEETING, 1985
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 16, 1985
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and Vice Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Cosovich and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were
present. Regents Brown and Varner, and Vice Presidents Frye, Johnson and
Interim Vice President Sussman were absent.
University Hospitals 1985-86 Operating Budget
President Shapiro introduced Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Chief Executive Officer of University Hospitals, who would discuss the operating budgets for
1985-86.
Dr. Dalston explained the circumstances and goals that were the determining factors in compiling the operating budget. He indicated there were
three overriding objectives in the recommendation which he listed as the
activation of the Adult General Hospital and Ambulatory Care Facilityapproximately three months will be necessary to test the systems before
moving patients into the new facility; lower increases in room rates-a 5%
rate increase is being recommended rather than the 12-13% which had
originally been projected because of the fundamental changes in the field;
and major expense reductions-this is the first of a three-year plan for
expense reductions which will enable the hospital to be price competitive.
These objectives must be accomplished at the same time overall financial
strength is maintained.
Dr. Dalston reviewed the factors that would influence the revenue and
expense projections for the next three years: phasing of the new medicare,
medicaid and DRG systems, indirect and direct medical educational costs,
and payment for capital. In summary, Dr. Dalston commented that the
financial uncertainty is being vigorously addressed with plans of greater
efficiency in operations, new programs to generate more admissions and
shorter length of stay along with multi-year expense reductions.
Mr. John Forsyth, Chief Operating Officer of the Hospitals, presented
slides and discussed changes in payment methodologies, three-year forecasts
of the major assumptions and objectives, statement of revenues and expenses, and management alternatives for eliminating forecasted operating
losses.
Mr. Saunders Midyette, Associate Hospital Director for Finance, spoke
to the fiscal 1985-86 budget and described the hospital's inpatient and
ambulatory activity, ancillary services, and the comparative statement of
revenue and expense. There was further discussion with respect to the daily
service charges which have been planned for the next budget year, and the
proposed 5% average daily service rate increase for the University of
Michigan Hospitals.
271




272


MAY MEETING, 1985


Regent Roach then moved to approve the proposed 1985-86 operating
budget for UM Hospitals, including the daily service rate increase averaging
5%, to be effective July 1, 1985. Regent Power seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
The meeting was recessed for lunch.
The meeting reconvened at 1:30 p.m. and Regent Brown and Vice
Presidents Frye, Johnson and Sussman joined the meeting.
Flint Campus Library
President Shapiro said that the recommendation of a site for a library on
the Flint Campus would be presented at this time.
Chancellor Jones indicated that the Regents had approved an update of
the master plan for the campus at a previous meeting which had identified
two possible sites for a proposed library. At this time approval is requested
for a single site in order to proceed with preliminary plans which are critical
in developing a fundraising effort to support the library. He then introduced
Mr. William McGibbon of Johnson, Johnson and Roy.
Mr. McGibbon reviewed the history of the development of the campus
and the relationship to the Flint community. The site which is being recommended for the Library/Learning Resource Center is in direct relationship to
the new science building which will continue the building linkage system of
the campus. Service for the library will be direct and easily accessible, the
convenience of surface parking will remain, and a passive, soft relationship
would be achieved by the permanently dedicated open space of Wilson Park.
In conclusion, Mr. McGibbon indicated that the original concept of the
location of the library was recommended at this time. Modification of
surface parking and construction of a parking structure would need consideration. He added that the addition of a science building would add significantly to a compact, complete campus at Flint.
Regent Baker inquired about the funding status of those projects. Chancellor Jones indicated the Classroom/Laboratory building request was recently approved by the Joint Capital Outlay Committee and is moving
through the legislative process. Funding for the library depends upon
fundraising efforts once the site has been approved and preliminary plans
have been developed.
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the site location for the Library/
Learning Resource Center for UM-Flint, as recommended. Regent Smith
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
President Shapiro introduced Professor Nallapu Reddy, Professor of
Economics, who was chairman of the Committee on the Economic Status of
the Faculty at UM-Flint.
Professor Reddy reviewed the report and listed the following points: (1)
salary levels for the UM-Flint faculty in all professorial ranks continue to be
about the same as average salary levels for their peer institutions. The
faculty feels that these levels continue to fall short of what they should be as
a branch campus of The University of Michigan; (2) there continues to be a
wide salary discrepancy between the College of Arts and Sciences and the




MAY MEETING, 1985


273


School of Management. These differences, in part, may be because of
market conditions and may not indicate an imbalance, but it underscores
underpayment of the large segment of the faculty; (3) the faculty at UMFlint continue to suffer a decline in earning power. Without significant
improvement in salary levels, the campus could lose its ability to attract and
retain exceptional faculty, which would result in a diminishing faculty
morale, and a decrease in the quality of academic programs; and (4) there
has been no apparent progress on two fringe benefit items to which the
faculty has given highest priority, namely, a tuition waiver for faculty
family members, and adequate dental insurance. The committee urges that
every effort be made this year to reverse the ongoing decline in real faculty
salaries.
In response to a question from Regent Roach concerning the fringe
benefits, Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that all three campus have the
same fringe benefit package, including the dental assistance program. He
said there has been some discussion with respect to a variable type benefit
plan, but there does not seem to be too much economic incentive for it.
Regent Roach commented that the Regents are sympathetic to the inadequate compensation for the faculty on all campuses, but it is the direct result
of the substantial underfunding by the state over several years. There also
has been much discussion with respect to a tuition waiver, however, there
does not appear to be a concensus of support for this issue. Since it is the
University's practice to treat the three campuses the same, perhaps it would
be best to use the limited resources for salaries where they will do the most
good and let the fringe benefits remain the same for the present time.
Health Service Fee Increase, 1985-86
Vice President Johnson distributed a revision of the first paragraph of the
request for a Health Service fee increase for 1985-86. He explained the
two-phase process which would remove general fund support for the Health
Service operational base. The first phase will delete the utility costs and next
year the replacement of general fund support for building and maintenance
would be accomplished. He said that the request is for approval to increase
the fee by $5.25 (9.5%) on the existing fee base of $55.00 for a total of
$60.25.
Regent Baker remarked he did not agree with the solution of transferring
the cost of Health Service from the University to the student. He said he
would like to have a report which would indicate the utilization trend over a
several-year period.
In response to a question by Regent Power, concerning student exception
to payment of the fee, Vice President Johnson commented that there are
certain categories, such as work/study students, students studying abroad,
Jackson Hole camp students, students at the geological camp, and the
evening M.B.A. students at Dearborn, who are exempt from paying the
health service fee.
Regent Nielsen moved to approve an increase for University Health
Service of $5.25 per student per term, for a total of $60.25, to support the
1985-86 budget. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted,
with Regent Baker voting no.




274


MAY MEETING, 1985


Operating Budget, 1985-86
Vice President Frye spoke of the forthcoming decisions that would have
to be made regarding the 1985-86 operating budget. He pointed out some of
the present expense and revenue projects. The state appropriation recommendation, indirect cost recovery increase, and other revenue would total
approximately $16 million in revenue for next year. On the expense side,
salary, nonsalary, staff benefits and utilities total about $20.253 million,
assuming salary and nonsalary increases at 5% each and utilities approximately 8-9%.
The deficit and underbudgeted items include the $1.5 million deficit the
Board authorized last year to formally structure into the budget. The remaining general fund costs that have been carried in a post-budgetary or nonbudgetary manner include: classroom scheduling, tuition grant program for
graduate students, office and classroom rental, legal fees, certain cost
reimbursement, and financial operations, particularly data processing. These
items necessitate the provision of approximately $4.5 million for expenses
that will be incurred whether they have or have not been budgeted. The
University no longer has the capacity to generate year end funds through
which these costs were formerly covered. Therefore, they must be absorbed
into the formal budget before considering other expenditures.
The remaining expense items including the Regents fellowship program
for doctoral students, the new minority student fellowship program, the
modest commitments that have been made to the various schools and
colleges, other operations around the campus, and the debt service on
certain construction and renovation activities add up to approximately $28
million, but the partial revenues of about $16 million leaves a gap of $12.1
million.
Possible options to relieve the situation include, a 5% across-the-board
tuition increase, which would generate a net revenue of approximately
$7.759 million. Since financial aid is customarily increased by the same
percentage, however, the net would be $4.759 million. The only other
available revenue would be the internal reallocation from the five-year plan.
Adding that amount to the tuition increase would reduce the gap between
revenues that can be generated and expenses to approximately $1.1 million.
Vice President Frye commented upon additional needs which included
closing the gap in salaries, academic program development, certain focused
initiatives in various areas, the computerization of the campus, and the
equipment and maintenance fund. The Regents and the executive officers
will have to make some very difficult choices with respect to tuition versus
what must be done to prevent further erosion of the quality of the institution.
Assuming that overall enrollments, including graduate, professional and
undergraduate, would not change appreciably, Vice President Frye mentioned alternative tuition models: a basic 5% across-the-board; a zero increase for resident students and 9% for out-of-state students, and a 5%
increase for instate undergraduate students, and a 7% increase for all other
students. Another option would be to dispense with differential tuition rates
between upper class and lower class, and applying the computing fee to all
students. These are combinations that can be studied for possible implementation.




MAY MEETING, 1985


275


President Shapiro commented that there is some interest at the state level
in both the House and the Senate to increase the appropriations for higher
education this year, but that will not be known until the final appropriation
figure is received. The research excellence fund, although an important
element, will not have an impact upon the budget until fiscal 1987. The
ensuing discussion spoke to various aspects of the budget, including the
underbudgeted items, legal fees, and development costs.
Regent Power commented that she hoped the executive officers would
prepare a range of tuition and financial options for the Regents so that their
budgetary action could be taken both within the context of the history of the
financial hardships of the past decade as well as of the anticipated financial
climate within the next 2-3 years.
Promotions
Vice President Frye commented that he was pleased to bring to the
Board for their consideration the annual set of promotions. He said, in his
judgment, there is no action taken that is more vital to the well-being of the
institution and is one of the most enjoyable aspects of his position. Although
it would be impossible to fully characterize the diversity or to comment on
each individual case in a meaningful way, he emphasized the exceptionally
high quality of the individuals recommended.
Vice President Frye then reviewed the process which determines the
final promotion and/or tenure recommendations and the statistical profile of
this year's list. He indicated that minorities represent 10% of the total
recommendations and women represent 20% of the total. Overall, minorities
comprise 8.7%  of the faculty and women 17%. Mrs. Virginia Nordby,
Director of Affirmative Action, also reviewed the process and indicated that
the process was appropriate. The opportunity for review of women and
minorities was equivalent to that of males.
Chancellor Jenkins commented that of the 11 recommendations at Dearborn, 4 were promoted to full professor with tenure, 6 to associate professor
with tenure, and one associate professor was awarded tenure; 3 recommendations were women.
Chancellor Jones indicated that 8 individuals were recommended for
promotion, of whom 4 were recommended for tenure. The internal review
process at Flint was similar to the Ann Arbor process.
Following further discussion, Regent Baker moved to approve the annual
promotions, as recommended. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
There followed a brief recess.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of April 18 and 19, 1985 were deferred.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project.




276


MAY MEETING, 1985


Interim Vice President Sussman placed on file a report on grants and
contracts for research.
Public Comments
There were comments by Regents Baker and Roach concerning litigation
against the University and labor negotiations. In both instances, the Regents
cannot respond to individuals who address these issues during public comments. They felt that the public receives a one-sided view of the issues, and
that fact should be communicated to the public.
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Elizabeth Barlow, Project Associate, Near Eastern & African Studies, Herbert Williams, representing the Union of Black Episcopalians, and Reverend James Lewis, minister of the Episcopal Church of the
Incarnation, on the law case against Mildred Morris; Joseph Spiegel, M.D.
Otorhinolaryngology, and Michele Zembo, M.D., Orthopedics, on the House
Officers negotiations; Robert Ball, Ann Arbor citizen, on elaboration of
investigation suggested at previous meeting; Charles Tackett, Ann Arbor
citizen, on Vietnam Veterans; Jennifer Faigel, David Lovinger, and Rollie
Hudson, Michigan Student Assembly, on campus safety and campus issues;
and Fred Barney, graduate student, on credit for ROTC courses.
The meeting was recessed.
Friday, May 17, 1985
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith and Waters. Chancellor Jenkins and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff,
Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Brown and Varner
and Chancellor Jones were absent.
The President reconvened the meeting indicating that the meeting would
proceed with the regular order of business.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice President Cosovich reported gifts from the following sources. They
were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Advanced Technology Laboratories, Inc., Bellvue, Washington; for ultrasound research in the Medical School fund................................................ $ 5,336
Norma Aleck Estate; for the Fulton Russel Aleck Endowment for Financial Aid
fund................................................................  10,000
Alexander & Alexander of Michigan, Inc., Detroit; for the Replacement Hospital
Campaign fund....................................................... 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds............... 58,788
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  7,288
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund..............................................................  54,000
Anonymous Donor; for scholarships in the policy and behavioral aspects of natural
resources and environmental management, School of Natural Resources fund....  12,000




MAY MEETING, 1985


277


Anonymous Donor; for the Frank J. MacDonell Lectureship in the Medical School
fund................................................................  7,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund...  9,167
Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  13,652
Bettcher Industries, Inc., Vermilion, Ohio; for trauma research in the College of
Engineering  fund.....................................................  10,000
Beztak Company, Farmington Hills, Two State of Israel Twenty-Year Income Bonds;
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign and
of the Law  School funds...............................................  20,000
Robert C. Bonney Estate; for the Gertrude L. and Robert C. Bonney Research Fund in
the Medical School fund...............................................  48,000
Albert Bradley Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund.  5,000
Edwin E. Breitenbach, Sr., Garden Grove, California; for radiation therapy research
in  the Medical School fund.............................................  5,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois; for physiology research in the Medical
School fund.........................................................  15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  15,232
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; for the Chrysler Corporation Scholarships in the
College  of Engineering  fund............................................  13,000
Susan Diack Coon Estate; for the Alumni Center fund......................... 462,116
Cox-Uphoff Corporation, Santa Barbara, California; for plastic surgery research in the
M edical  School  fund..................................................  6,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit; for the Law School fund.............. 15,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware; for the du Pont
fellowships and research grants in the Schools of Business Administration and
Public Health, the Colleges of Engineering, Literature, Science and the Arts,
and Pharmacy and in the Institute of Science and Technology funds............ 82,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  14,415
Ford Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the Institute of Labor and
Industrial  Relations  fund...............................................  30  000
Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Foundation, Southfield; for the Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Fund  in  the  Medical School fund....................................  5,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for research in the College of Engineering and
in the Institute of Science and Technology funds...........................  25,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut; for fellowships in the College of Engineering   fund............................................................  10,000
J. Ira Harris, Chicago, Illinois Tyco Laboratories, Incorporated and Continuum
Company, Incorporated common stocks; for the J. Ira Harris Scholarship and the
J. Ira Harris Professorship in Finance, in the School of Business Administration
fund................................................................  203,781
Alice A. Hooten Estate; for support of The University of Michigan Hospitals..... 52,440
Instruments S.A., Inc., Metuchen, New Jersey; for solid state electronics research in
the  College  of Engineering.............................................  7,500
International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, New York, New York; for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration Campaign fund....... 10,000
Phyllis K. Johnson Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan
fund................................................................  5,2 50
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey; for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research, for endocrine research in the Medical
School, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds............................  60,618
W. K. Kellogg Poundation, Battle Creek; for geriatric health maintenance and
education activities at The University of Michigan Hospitals fund............. 12,058
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
for patient care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals fund..........  7,416
Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc., Miami, Florida; for the Journalists in Residence
Program Endowment in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for
Employee  M atching  Gifts  funds.........................................  83,523




278


MAY MEETING, 1985


Knights of Vartan, Inc., Grand Lodge, Cranston, Rhode Island; for the Armenian
Research and Publications Program Endowment Fund, The University of MichiganDearborn fund...................................................... 75,000
Laird, Norton Foundation, Seattle, Washington; for tbe Distinguished Visitors Program in the School of Natural Resources fund.............................  7,500
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for pharmacological research in the
M edical School fund..................................................  5,000
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana; for the Center for Research on Learning
and Teaching  fund....................................................  10,000
May Stores Foundation, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio; for the Jack J. Heller Memorial
Endowment in the College of Engineering fund............................  5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Endowment fund.....................................................  12,435
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration Campaign fund................................  15,000
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of
Michigan  Hospitals funds..............................................  13,000
Mobil Chemical Company, Edison, New Jersey; for macromolecular research in the
Institute of Science and Technology fund................................. 20,000
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint; for support of The University of Michigan-Flint,
Physical Therapy  Program   fund.........................................  12,500
National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund..................................................                6,070
Nancy B. Podbielniak, Rancho Santa Fe, California; for the Walter J. Podbielniak
Fund  in  the College of Engineering  fund..................................  5,000
Millard H. Pryor, Jr., Manchester Connecticut; for the Campaign For Michigan -
Unrestricted  Endowment fund...........................................  5,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline; for the Replacement Hospital Campaign
fund..................................................                7,500
Sage Foundation, Detroit; for research in the Medical School fund...............  5,000
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey; for pharmacological research in the
M edical  School  fund..................................................  5,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint; for the Esther C. Stone Fund, The University
of  M ichigan-  Flint  fund................................................  68,983
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust; for the Arthur Thurnau Fund for Teaching and
R esearch  fund........................................................  187,299
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor; for the Center for the Continuing
Education  of W omen  fund..............................................  25,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New
York; for research in the Medical School and in the Center for Human Growth and
Developm ent  fund....................................................  43,526
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group; for
Alumnae  Council Scholarships fund......................................  5,777
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York; for the H. W. Wilson Foundation
Fellowships in the School of Library Science fund.......................... 32,000
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut; for macromolecular research in the Institute  of Science  and  Technology  fund..................................... 10,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Anonymous Donor. One Chippewa Bandolier Bag (ca. 1890); for the Museum of Art
Hugh Cooper, Ann Arbor. Two works by M. C. Escher; "Metamorphosis II" and
"XXIV Emblamata"; for The Museum of Art
Jack Faxon, Farmington Hills. A Borneaen mask, and an Indonesian Batak noise
beater; for the Museum of Art
Lydia 0. Johnstone, Southfield. Three African sculptures representing West Africa,
Upper Volta and the Ibibio, Ekpo Society; for the Museum of Art
John Krol, Detroit. Thirty-six reference books; for The University of MichiganDearborn Library




MAY MEETING, 1985


279


Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Lemelin, Flint. A collection of bound volumes of Civil War era
weeklies, dated 1857-1902; for thc William L. Clements Library
Albert T. Marshall, Rochester Hills. An Apple Lisa, expanded capacity microcomputer with software and accessories; for the College of Engineering
Merle Probst, Naples, Florida. Approximately 15,000 pieces of roofing slate; for the
Housing Division
John Rewald, New York, New York. A Manzu drawing: "Reclining Woman," and
an Alberto Giocometti drawing: "Woman in Interior"; for the Museum of Art
Allen F. Roberts, Ann Arbor. Artworks: A Lobi figure, a Dan mask, a Lula mask and
a Bamana tyi-wara headdress; for the Museum of Art
Sheldon Sobel, New City, New York. A photograph portfolio containing ten photographs of landscapes, by: P. Caponigro, F. Fontana, W. Garnett, R. Gibson and
E. Porter; for the Museum of Art
Leon J. Sokol, Hackensack, New Jersey. Eight photographs by: P. Caponigro, W.
Garnett, R. Gibson and E. Porter; for the Museum of Art
Spectradyne, Inc., Dearborn Heights. Eight Sony cassette players; for WFUM-TV's
Learning Resource Center
Stephen M. Taylor, Franklin. A Lucas Cranach, Elder, woodcut: "Sermon of St.
John"; for the Museum of Art
A. Paul Victor, Rye, New York. An Aristide Maillol bronze sculpture: "Seated
Nude"; for the Museum of Art
Peter Douglas Ward, Ann Arbor. Twelve annual monthly acquisitions lists, and the
monthly and annual copies of the National Legal Bibliography; for the Law
Library
Vice President Cosovich reviewed his report on development and
communication.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
John Russell Brown, Ph.D., Professor and Chairman of the Department of Theatre and Drama,
without tenure, for five years, September 1, 1985
Wilbur J. Cohen, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the School of
Education, May 8 through June 19, 1985
Jersey Liang, Ph.D., Associate Professor, without tenure, Medical Care Organization, September 1, 1985
Maurice J. Sinnott, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a Principal Investigator for Chemical and
Metallurgical Engineering, June 1, 1985 through December 31, 1985
Albert F. Yee, Ph.D., Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, without tenure,
June 1, 1985
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Bernard W. Agranoff, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, in the Department of
Biological Chemistry, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, in the Department of
Psychiatry, Research Scientist in the Department of Psychiatry, Director of the Neuroscience Laboratory, and from Scientific Director to Director of the Mental Health Research
Institute, March 1, 1985
Robbins Burling, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
appointed Interim Director of the Program in Linguistics, for a one-year term, July 1, 1985




280


MAY MEETING, 1985


James N. Cather, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and reappointed Associate Dean for
Facilities and Administration, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, for a two-year
term
Louis G. D'Alecy, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, in the Department of Physiology, and
appointed Professor of Physiology, without tenure, in the Department of Surgery, May 1,
1985
William R. Dawson, Dugald E. S. Brown Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, and
reappointed Director of the Museum of Zoology, for a five-year term, July 1, 1985
Elizabeth Douvan, Catherine Neafie Kellogg Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and CoDirector of the Women's Studies Program, appointed Director of the Residential College,
for a five-year term, July 1, 1985
Richard W. Fortner, Professor of Management, reappointed Dean of the School of Management, UM-Flint, for a three-year term, July 1, 1985
Wendel H. Heers, Professor of Art, with tenure, Lecturer, School of Education, reappointed
Acting Dean of the School of Art, July 1, 1985 Albert Isaac Hermalin, Professor of
Sociology, with tenure, reappointed Director of the Population Studies Center, for a
two-year term, July 1, 1985
David C. Huntington, Professor of the History of Art, with tenure, and appointed Chairman of
the Department of the History of Art, for a two-year term, July 1, 1985
Karl L. Hutterer, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and reappointed Director for the
Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies, for a two-year term, July 1, 1985
William Allan Lunk, Exhibit Curator of the Exhibit Museum, without tenure, appointed Acting
Chairman of the Exhibit Museum, July 1, 1985
Douglas 0. Richstone, Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, appointed Interim
Chairman of the Department of Astronomy, for a two-year term, July 1, 1985
Mary Ann P. Swain, Professor of Nursing Research, with tenure, reappointed Associate Vice
President for Academic Affairs, for a two-year term, August 1, 1985
Thomas Edward Toon, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature with tenure,
appointed Director of the Program in Linguistics, for a three-year term, July 1, 1986
Kenneth E. Warner, Professor of Health Planning and Administration, reappointed Chairman of
the Department of Health Planning and Administration, for a three-year term, July 1, 1985
William L. Williams, Professor of Physics, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean for Research
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, for a three-year term, June 1, 1985
Charles Frederick Yocum, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, and appointed Chairman of Biological Sciences, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1985
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Hemalata Dandekar, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with
tenure
James A. Turner, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure
School of Art
Joanne Leonard, from Associate Professor to Professor of Art, with tenure
Allen Samuels,from Associate Professor to Professor of Art, with tenure
Takeshi Takahara, Associate Professor of Art, awarded tenure
School of Business Administration
Michael H. Bradley, Associate Professor of Finance, awarded tenure
Stanley J. Kon, Associate Professor of Finance, awarded tenure
William N. Cooke, Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations,
awarded tenure
Janet A. Weiss, Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations,
awarded tenure
Aneel G. Karnani, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Policy and Control,
without tenure
Kathryn E. Stecke, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Policy and Control,
without tenure




MAY MEETING, 1985


281


School of Dentistry
Donald Ray Heys, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
School of Education
Gerald J. Mahoney, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
Karen K. Wixson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
College of Engineering
Perry J. Samson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Atmosopheric and Oceanic
Science, with tenure
Erdogan Gulari, from. Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
Andrzej S. Nowak, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, awarded tenure
Kang G. Shin, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, awarded
tenure
Jack R. Lohmann, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, with tenure
James R. Barber, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Claus Borgnakke, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Maria Comninou, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Noboru Kikuchi, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, with tenure
Panos Papalambros, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Michael M. Bernitsas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Naval Architecture
and Marine Engineering, with tenure
Armin W. Troesch, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, awarded
tenure
Ronald M. Gilgenbach, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, awarded tenure
Gary S. Was, from Asssistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, without
tenure
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Karl L. Hutterer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
John D. Speth, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Wesley Monroe Brown, Associate Professor of Biological Sciences, awarded tenure
Harry A. Douthit, Jr., from Associate Professor to Professor of Botany, with tenure
Peter Kilham, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Sciences with tenure
John P. Langmore, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Sciences, with
tenure
Beverly Jean Rathcke, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Sciences,
with tenure
Mark E. Meyerhoff, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
John Kucich, from the William Wilhartz Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English
Language and Literature, with tenure
Lawrence Goldstein, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature,
with tenure
June Howard, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure
James Winn, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure
Terrence J. McDonald, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Martin S. Pernick, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Peter Edwin Hook, from Associate Professor to Professor of Linguistics, with tenure
Donna Jo Napoli, from Associate Professor to Professor of Linguistics, with tenure
Roberto Merlin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics with tenure




282


MAY MEETING, 1985


Michael D. Cohen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science and Public
Policy, with tenure
Warren G. Holmes, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Steven N. Dworkin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Linguistics,
with tenure
Bogdana Chetkowska Carpenter, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Slavic
Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Duane F. Alwin, from Associate Professor and Associate Research Scientist to Professor of
Sociology, without tenure, and Research Scientist, Survey Research Center
Victor B. Lieberman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Medical School
John H. Lillie, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with
tenure, also Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure
Michael J. Welsh, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, without tenure
Satwant K. Samra, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with
tenure
Robert A. Vogel, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Joseph C. Glorioso, III, from Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with
tenure, in the Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology
to Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, in the Unit for Laboratory
Animal Medicine and Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, in the
Department of Microbiology and Immunology
David W. Thomas, from Associate Professor to Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
with tenure
Anne B. Young, from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Harry S. Greenberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Mangaladevi Menon, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure
Ben M. Clopton, Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, awarded tenure
Bryan E. Pfingst, Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, awarded tenure
Gregory T. Wolf, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with
tenure
Ronald W. Holz, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
Tetsufumi Ueda, Associate Professor of Pharmacology in the Department of Psychiatry,
awarded tenure, also Associate Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, in the
Department of Pharmacology and Associate Research Scientist, Mental Health Research
Institute
Frederick M. Maynard, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation, with tenure
Roger F. Haskett, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Randolph M. Nesse, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Barry H. Gross, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Herbert B. Grossman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Dean S. Louis, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
School of Music
Judith Becker, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music, with tenure
Martin E. Katz, Professor of Music, awarded tenure
Michael W. Udow, Associate Professor of Music, awarded tenure
School of Natural Resources
Gary Edward Belovsky, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Natural Resources,
with tenure
Eugene F. Stoermer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Natural Resources, without
tenure




MAY MEETING, 1985


283


School of Nursing
Marilyn J. Svejda, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
School of Public Health
Lawrence B. Brilliant, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Epidemiology,
without tenure
Patricia P. Moll, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure
Noreen M. Clark, from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Behavior and Health
Education, with tenure
Ruth S. Simmons, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Planning and
Administration, with tenure
School of Social Work
Oscar A. Barbarin, III, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with
tenure
Vivian B. Shapiro, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, without
tenure
Kristine A. Siefert, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Barry Allen Bogin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure
Daniel Moerman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
John G. Constant, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music History, with
tenure
Sheryl S. Pearson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure
Rainer H. Sell, from Associate Professor to Professor of German, with tenure
Frank J. Papp, Associate Professor of Mathematics, awarded tenure
Craig J. Donahue, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Charlotte A. Otto, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Elaine Clark, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Gerald F. Moran, from Associate Professor to Professor of History, with tenure
Ronald R. Stockton, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science, with tenure
University of Michigan-Flint
Judith J. Kollmann, from Associate Professor to Professor of English, with tenure
William J. Lockwood, from Associate Professor to Professor of English, with tenure
Frederic J. Svoboda, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, with tenure
Nora Faires, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Steven C. Althoen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Charles E. M. Dunlop, from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Albert C. Price, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with
tenure
Suzanne M. Selig, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Care, with tenure
Committee Appointments
The following committee appointments were approved.
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Noreen M. Clark, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985
Jill G. Joseph, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Bonnie Jean Kay, term expired
Executive Board of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
David E. Crawford, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Elwood S. Derr, term
expired
Alan B. MacNee, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Spencer BeMent, term expired
Karen O. Mason, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Phyllis Blumenfeld, term
expired




284


MAY MEETING, 1985


R. Glenn Northcutt, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Susan B. Steckel, term
expired
Marvin W. Peterson, for a one-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Norma J. Diamond, on leave
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Sheila C. Feld, to suceed herself, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985
John E. Tropman, for a three-year term, September 1, 1985, vice Srinika Jayaratne, term
expired
Citizens Advisory Committee, University of Michigan-Flint
David Laro, reappointed for a four-year term, May 16, 1985
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Board for Channel 28 Television
Rev. J. B. Bettendorf, reappointed for a three-year term
Jack Hamady, reappointed for a three-year term
Frankie Perry, reappointed for a three-year term
Mary Turcke, reappointed for a three-year term
Jack Schroeder, reappointed for a three-year term
Ron Silverman, appointed for a three-year term
Edward Foy, appointed for a three-year term
Raquel Moreno, appointed for a three-year term
Edward Read, appointed for a three-year term
Benjamin Davis, appointed for a three-year term
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for Dennis E.
Ross, Assistant Professor of Law, and Demetrius J. Pleassas, Associate
Professor of Health Planning and Administration.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Arthur B. Modine Professorship in Engineering.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were recieved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Marshall D. Sklar, M.D., Radiation Therapy, April 1, 1985
Instructor
Caryl J. Heaton, D.O., Family Practice
Peter Y. Lai, M.B., B.S., Internal Medicine, April 1, 1985
Paulette Metoyer, M.D., Internal Medicine, April 1, 1985
Steven W. Werns, M.D., Internal Medicine, April 1, 1985
Visiting Professor
Robert Sedestrom, M.F. A., Art
Visiting Associate Professor
George K. Danns, Ph.D., Sociology
Visiting Assistant Professor
Gregory W. Trianosky, Ph.D., Philosophy
Adjunct Professor
Franois V. Viola, III, M.D., M.P.H., Environmental and Industrial Health




MAY MEETING, 1985


285


Adjunct Assistant Professor
Timothy L. Walter, Ph.D., Physical Education, January 1, 1985
Adjunct Lecturer
P. E. Bennett, J.D., Law
Lawrence S. Blumer, Ph.D., Biological Sciences
Colleen M. Fairbanks, M.A., Physical Education, January 1, 1985
Bronwen Gates, Ph.D., Biological Sciences
Gail K. McCracken, J.D., Management, UM-Dearborn
David R. Robinson, M.S., Computer and Information Systems
Joseph Rohrer, Ph.D., Biological Sciences
David B. Roitman, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering, January 1, 1985
Alfred D. Ward, M.A., Art
Clinical Instructor
Kelly J. Rigney, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 6, 1985
Michael S. Singleton, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 6, 1985
Clinical Lecturer
Joan P. Edwards, M.D., Internal Medicine, December 1, 1984
James V. Felicetta, M.D., Internal Medicine, December 1, 1984
Michael B. Rozboril, M.D., Internal Medicine, January 1, 1985
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Adoor Amanullah, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, January 1, 1985
Thomas L. Brewer, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of
International Business
Barbara A. Dicks, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Sociology/ Anthropology, UM-Flint,
January 1, 1985
David A. Home, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Marketing, May 1, 1985
Donald G. Kewman, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, March 1, 1985
Ned L. Kirsch, from Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, March 1, 1985
Mathias W. Reimann, from Visiting Instructor to Assistant Professor of Law
Randy S. Roth, from Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, March 1, 1985
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 31, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Denis L. Dutton, Philosophy, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1985
Donald M. Mclnnes, Music
Barbara F. Reskin, Sociology and Women's Studies
Norman Starr, Statistics
James A. Vann, III, History
Associate Professor
Nancy Allen, Music
George J. Burt, Music
Erik Fredricksen, Theatre and Drama
Cynthia A. Montgomery, Policy and Control
Assistant Professor
George Bittlingmayer, Business Economics
Barry J. Crevey, Internal Medicine, March 31, 1985
Diane C. Longo, Nursing




286


MAY MEETING, 1985


Barry I. Samuels, Radiology, April 30, 1985
Zenaida Spangler, Nursing
Robert J. Thomas, Sociology
Birger Wernerfelt, Policy and Control
Instructor
Chuck C. Cho, Radiation Therapy, April 30, 1985
Carol M. Grishaw, Nursing
Susannah J. Stockdale, Nursing
Adam A. Gallucci, Anesthesiology, April 30, 1985
Four off-campus assignments, two sabbatical leaves and one extended
sick leave were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS:
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of twelve faculty members. The following memoirs were adopted.
W. WILBUR ACKERMANN, Professor of Epidemiology in the School of Public Health,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1985, concluding a career of teaching, research
and service spanning three and one-half decades.
Professor Ackermann was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1925. He entered Tulane
University in 1941, graduating three years later with honors in chemistry. In 1945, he was
awarded an M.S. degree by Tulane with major training in organic chemistry. He then undertook
studies in biochemistry at the University of Texas, completing his Ph.D. degree in 1947 at the
age of 22. He remained at Texas for another year as the Rosalie B. Hite Fellow at the
Biochemical Institute in Austin, Texas. In 1948, he moved to the University of Wisconsin
where he completed another year of postdoctoral training under the renowned oncologist Van
R. Potter at the McArdle Memorial Laboratory for Cancer Research.
In 1949, Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr. recruited Professor Ackermann to join the research team
he was assembling to assist him in his work on the problems of poliomyelitis and influenza.
Professor Ackermann's role was to study the biochemical interactions of cells and viruses,
particularly in seeking to determine the site and mode of virus influence upon the cell and its
biochemical and functional components. His initial appointment was as a research associate, but
he was quickly promoted to assistant professor in 1950.
Professor Ackermann made rapid progress in his research. When he joined Dr. Francis, his
experience, training and interests had been concentrated in the field of biochemistry and
physiology. In a very short time, however, he acquired an extensive knowledge of virology,
immunology and pathology so that in the view of his colleagues he was one of the few
individuals who was completely capable in all those varied fields. His contributions to scientific
literature were beginning to arouse both national and international interest. By 1953, Dr.
Francis had become so impressed with this brilliant young scholar that he nominated him for
promotion to associate professor.
Five years later in 1958, Professor Ackermann was promoted to full professor. He had
developed into an outstanding teacher, both in the classroom and in the laboratory. His
presentation of material in class and at scientific meetings was extremely lucid and stimulating.
In addition to being an excellent teacher and splendid speaker, he was a superb writer. Under
his leadership a number of young graduate students interested in enzyme chemistry were
brought together into a very active discussional group. Students who had worked with Professor
Ackermann were eagerly sought after. Several of his graduate students occupy prominent
positions in the biomedical research community. His laboratory was a mecca for scientists from
here and abroad.
In 1958, Professor Ackermann was awarded the prestigious Eli Lilly Award for excellence
in research in microbiology. His nomination for the Lilly Award was supported by the eminent
microbiologist Rene J. Dubos, who regarded Professor Ackermann as the most imaginative
investigator in the field of interplay between viruses and host cells and observed that his studies
"have thrown light on the metabolic factors involved in virus multiplication and have paved the
way for a rational approach to chemotherapy of virus infections."
During Professor Ackermann's early years with Dr. Francis, his research was supported by




MAY MEETING, 1985


287


grants from the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Later support came from a program
project grant from the National Institutes of Health for research on the mechanisms of viral
infection. After Dr. Francis' death, Professor Ackermann sought and obtained research funding
from the National Cancer Institute. During his career as researcher he produced more than 75
publications in scientific journals.
Professor Ackermann was a member of several professional, honorary and learned societies,
including the American Society of Biological Chemistry, Society of American Bacteriologists,
American Association of Immunologists, Phi Lamda Upsilon, Sigma Xi, and Delta Omega. He
was a special consultant of the American Cancer Society Review Section on Virology and Cell
Biology. In recognition of a distinguished and productive career as researcher and teacher, the
Regents take pleasure in naming W. Wilbur Ackermann as Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology.
JULIA WOODS ANDREWS, Professor of Art, will retire from active faculty status May
31, 1985, after a prodigious career as artist and art educator.
A faculty member here since 1962, she received her bachelor's degree from the University
of Tennessee, her M.A. degree from Columbia University, and her M.F.A. in printmaking
from The University of Michigan. Devoted to instilling strong fundamental skills within art
students, Professor Andrew's distinctive style has influenced students for many years. Her
vigorous teaching and dedicated service, both as a committee member and faculty counselor,
have been exemplary.
Her work is represented in many museums and university art collections, including the
Baltimore Museum, the Philadelphia Print Club, the Rosenwald Collection, the University of
Delaware, the University of Tennessee, and several private collections. Throughout her long
career as an artist, Professor Andrews has been an active member of many professional
organizations, including the National Committee on Art Education, the Eastern Arts Association, the National Art Education Association, the Michigan Art Education Association, the
Michigan Watercolor Society, and the Ann Arbor Art Association. Her one-person shows
include the Forsythe Gallery, Carlen Gallery in Philadelphia, and the Delaware Art Museum.
The Regents now acknowledge the contributions of Julia Woods Andrews by naming her
Professor Emeritus of Art.
BENNING DEXTER, Professor of Music, will retire from active faculty status as of May
31, 1985.
A member of the piano faculty since 1949, and its chairman from 1961-73, Professor
Dexter began music study at an early age, and received a fellowship to the Juilliard School
where he studied with Alexander Siloti and Sascha Gorodnitzky. His solo and chamber music
performances moved beyond the concert hall to television and network radio, including several
dozen broadcasts for Radio Tokyo. Always a champion of contemporary music, his premieres
include works by Finney, Milhared and Bassett.
Remembering his many admirable qualities, both professional and personal, the Regents
now salute Benning Dexter as artist and gentleman and take pleasure in naming him Professor
Emeritus of Music.
IAN T. T. HIGGINS, M.D., Professor of Epidemiology and of Environmental and
Industrial Health in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on May
31, 1985, concluding a distinguished career in teaching, research and public service as a
member of the faculty of The University of Michigan.
Dr. Higgins was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1919. He completed his early education at
Gresham's School at Holt in Norfolk. He moved from there to London to obtain his medical
training at London Hospital, becoming a member of the Royal College of Surgeons and
Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians in 1942. Subsequent degrees, M.R.C.P in 1945,
M.B. and B.S. in 1946 and his M.D. degree in 1951, were also earned at London Hospital.
From 1943 to 1953, Dr. Higgins served in various hospitals in the United Kingdom with
appointments in general medicine, pediatrics and diseases of the chest.
In 1953, Dr. Higgins joined the scientific staff of the Medical Research Council's Pneumoconiosis Research Unit at Cardiff in Wales, under whose auspices he conducted numerous
studies of chronic respiratory disease and coronary heart disease in coal miners and other
occupational groups. In 1962 Dr. Higgins became assistant director of the Council's Epidemiologic Research Unit. In 1963, he left Great Britain to accept appointment as professor of
chronic disease epidemiology in the Graduate School of Public Health at the University of




288


MAY MEETING, 1985


Pittsburgh. While at Pittsburgh, Dr. Higgins also initiated studies in several mining communities in Marion County, West Virginia.
In 1967, Dr. Higgins accepted an invitation from Dean Myron E. Wegman to join the
faculty of the School of Public Health as professor of community health services, director of the
Adult Health and Aging Program and professor of epidemiology. Dr. Higgins became increasingly involved in the program of the Department of Epidemiology, which led to his decision to
relinquish his appointment in the Department of Community Health Services in 1971. Simultaneously, he was appointed professor of environment and industrial health. Under his leadership,
the epidemiology department assumed major responsiblity for the teaching of chronic disease
epidemiology, complementing the research being done in that area under the auspices of the
Tecumseh Community Health Study. Dr. Higgins was also instrumental in expanding the
curriculum to include new courses in cancer epidemiology, environmental epidemiology, and
occupational epidemiology. His teaching was well received, particularly by doctoral level
students, and his lectures were always salted with humor.
During his tenure at The University of Michigan, Dr. Higgins completed several major
research projects and investigations which included chronic respiratory disease in coal miners,
effects of air pollution in populations of the elderly and school children in Florida, effects of
taconite dust exposure on the health of employees of a mining company in Minnesota, and
many others. His last major study, commissioned by the Environmental Protection Agency,
investigated the effects on the pulmonary function of school children in a community with a
large copper smelter. During this research career, Dr. Higgins produced over 87 publications in
scientific journals as well as numerous technical monographs and reports.
Dr. Higgins' expertise in the epidemiology of chronic respiratory disease, cancer and other
diseases stemming from occupational and environmental exposures was in great demand at the
national level. He served on many committees of the National Academy of Sciences' National
Research Council. Among his membership involvements were the review committee of the
Environmental Epidemiology Branch of the National Cancer Institute, the American Heart
Association, American Lung Association, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, and the
American Thoracic Society. He was a consultant to various industrial organizations, and
editorial consultant to the Journal of Chronic Disease, the American Journal of Epidemiology,
and many others. He was also a member of numerous learned societies in both the United States
and the United Kingdom.
Dr. Higgins' many academic distinctions include election as a fellow of the Royal College
of Physicians, as elected fellow of the American College of Chest Physicians, and as fellow of
the American College of Epidemiology. He won the Charrington Prize in Anatomy, the Arnold
Thompson Prize in Diseases of Children, and the Adolph G. Kammer Merit in Authorship
Award of the Industrial Medical Association.
In recognition of the great credit that he has brought to The University of Michigan through
his teaching, research and service, the Regents now salute Ian T. T. Higgins by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology and Professor Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial
Health.
Professor GEORGE KISH, the William Herbert Hobbs Professor of Geography, and
director of the Program in Geography, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1985,
after a career of 42 years of teaching and research at The University of Michigan.
Professor Kish was born in Budapest, Hungary, and was educated at the Ecole des Sciences
Politiques, Paris (A.B., Political Science, 1935, cum laude), the University of Paris-Sorbonne
(M.A., History and Geography, 1937), and the University of Budapest (M.S., 1938, and
D.Sc., 1939, Economics). He received his Ph.D. degree in geography from The University of
Michigan in 1945, and was appointed as instructor of geography in 1943. Promoted through the
ranks, he was named professor of geography in 1956. In 1981, Professor Kish was named the
William Herbert Hobbs Distinguished Professor of Geography. He has lectured at Oxford,
London, Umeoa, Liege, Rome, Florence, Naples and Bari universities, as well as at the United
Nations University in Cambridge, the Stockholm School of Economics, and The Academy of
Sciences of both Poland and Hungary. He has also been a visiting professor at Northwestern
University, the University of Minnesota, and the University of Hawaii.
Professor Kish's many awards include the Andree Plaque for Polar Studies from the
Swedish Geographical Society, the Greater Linnaeus Silver Medal from the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences, The University of Michigan Henry Russel Lecturer Award, and the




MAY MEETING, 1985


289


Honors Award from the Association of American Geographers. He received the Jomard Prize of
the Paris Society of Geography in 1981.
Professor Kish's list of publications includes more than 140 articles in English, French,
German, Italian, and Hungarian, as well as several books. He has written on a wide range of
subjects including antique maps, historical cartography, the geography of European countries,
political geography, and the history of geography and navigation. He is the author of the
Bibliography of International Geographical Congresses, 1871-1976, a definitive work. His
latest book, La Carte: Image des Civilizations, was published in Paris in 1980 and received
wide critical acclaim.
Professor Kish has had a distinguished and internationally recognized career in geography.
His innovative and meticulous work in the field of cartography has brought honor and
distinction to The University of Michigan and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
The Regents now salute this distinguished geographer for his achievements and dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Geography.
THOMAS J. LARKIN, Professor of Art, will retire from active faculty status May 31,
1985, after a most prodigious career as ceramist, art educator and administrator. A native of
New York, Professor Larkin studied art at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, receiving
his B.A. and M.A. degrees in Art Education there. Senior faculty member in the joint
certification program in art education of the School of Art and the School of Education,
Professor Larkin has served The University of Michigan since 1953 when he was first appointed
to the faculty. He is a dynamic teacher and his rapport with students is unparalleled. An
ever-active committee member, he served on many committees and in many capacities at both
the department level and intra-university level, including the Committee on the Economic
Status of the Faculty, and the Faculty Senate Assembly. A former chairman of the Department
of Art, Professor Larkin served in that capacity from 1970 to 1972, prior to the creation of the
School of Art as an autonomous unit.
A member of the Michigan Art Education Association for 29 years, Professor Larkin served
one term as its president. In 1982, he was named recipient of the distinguished "University Art
Education" award of the Michigan Art Education Association. His work with the association
over the years focused on in-service re-education of art teachers, and helping establish a new
curriculum for the teaching of art in public secondary schools throughout the state. Other
service activities throughout the state and community included jurying, public speaking, and
evaluation of art programs for public schools.
Professor Larkin's research included many publications, articles and lectures on art education. His exhibition record in ceramic sculpture included shows at Slusser Gallery, Eastern
Michigan University, the Detroit Institute of Art, Rackham Galleries and The University of
Michigan Museum of Art.
It is with great pride that the Regents now acknowledge the many contributions of Thomas
J. Larkin by naming him Professor Emeritus of Art.
Effective May 31, 1985, Professor DONALD LLOYD MACDONALD will retire from
The University of Michigan following 33 years of service on the faculty of the School of
Business Administration.
Professor MacDonald received a B.S. degree from the American International College,
followed by M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania in 1948 and 1951
respectively. While working on his doctorate, he was appointed as instructor at the University
of Pennsylvania. In 1951 he moved to Oklahoma, where he accepted an assistant professorship
in insurance and finance at the Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College. In 1952 he was
appointed as assistant professor of insurance at The University of Michigan School of Business
Administration. During his tenure at the University, Professor MacDonald was promoted to the
rank of associate professor in 1957, followed by promotion to full professor in 1962.
Professor MacDonald was the primary person with responsibility for teaching insurance at
the School of Business Administration. In addition, he developed a course in corporate risk
control. Professor MacDonald authored several books and articles, primarily in the area of
corporate risk control in overseas operations of American corporations.
In recognition of Professor MacDonald's dedicated service, the Regents now salute him by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Insurance.
ROBERT K. MAUTZ, Professor of Accounting and former Director of the William A.
Paton Accounting Center, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1985.




290


MAY MEETING, 1985


It is a pleasure to recognize a career which has demonstrated outstanding performance in
every phase of an accounting educator's career - teaching, research, writing and service - for
over 35 years.
Professor Mautz did his undergraduate work at the University of North Dakota. He received
both his master's and his doctoral degrees from the University of Illinois, where, with the
exception of a few brief periods of absence, he was to distinguish the accounting profession as
well at that university for 24 years. In 1972 he left the Weldon Powell Professorship in
Accountancy at the University of Illinois to join Ernst & Ernst as a partner. After spending
seven years there, he retired in 1979 and joined The University of Michigan School of Business
Administration as professor of accounting and director of the William A. Paton Center for
Accounting Education and Research.
During his career, Professor Mautz authored and co-authored thirteen books, wrote chapters
in twelve other books, and published over 70 articles in scholarly publications and professional
journals. The Mautz & Sharaff Philosophy of Auditing, published by the American Accounting
Association in 1961, stands as one of the leading works in auditing theory. He conducted
several studies for the Financial Executives Research Foundation, all of which resulted in major
publications. For years, he counseled and trained some of the very best accounting Ph.D.s in
the United States. Many of these students now are leading educators at a number of universities, partners in accounting firms, and executives in the business world. His deep concern for
the welfare of his students and his unequivocal commitment to the educational process are well
known. Also significant, but less visible, was his contribution to younger faculty by the
magnificent role model which his outstanding research, teaching, service and lifestyle exhibited.
He served on numerous committees and on the board of directors of the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants. Professor Mautz also served on the Financial Accounting
Standards Advisory Council and as a consultant to the FASB. He was chairman of the
Government Accounting Standards Board Organizing Committee. Even now he is the only
academic member of the Public Oversight Board. He received the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants Gold Medal, its highest award, in 1979. In addition, for many
years he served as a consultant to the United States General Accounting Office. He was a
member of the Cost Accounting Standards Board and served as president of the American
Accounting Association in 1965. Professor Mautz was inducted into the National Hall of
Accounting in 1978.
His luminous career has set an example and a goal to his colleagues, students and friends.
The Regents now salute him by naming him Professor Emeritus of Accounting.
SAMUEL MAYES, Professor of Music, will retire from active faculty status effective May
31, 1985.
Professor Mayes served as principal cellist of the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Boston
Symphony Orchestra, and the Los Angeles Philharmonic, appearing under such conductors as
Toscanini, Stokowski, Ormandy, Koussevitsky, Ozawa, and Mehta, before joining The University of Michigan faculty in 1975.
A child prodigy, Mayes made his debut with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra at the age
of eight, and entered the Curtis Institute of Music at age twelve. Among the highlights of his
distinguished orchestral career may be counted the premiere of the Kabalevsky Cello Concerto
with the composer conducting the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Before coming to the University, Professor Mayes had taught at Boston University, the New England Conservatory, the
Eastman School of Music and at Tanglewood.
The Regents are pleased to honor Professor Mayes by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Music.
ANGEL REYES, Professor of Music, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31,
1985. Professor Reyes graduated Premier Prix from the Paris Conservatory at the age of
sixteen. Two years later, he won a coveted prize at the prestigious Ysoye International Violin
Competition in Brussels, thereafter establishing an enviable international reputation as concert
violinist through recital tours, appearances as soloist with major orchestras, and in chamber
music in the United States, Europe, Canada and Latin America.
Professor Reyes joined the faculty in 1965 as first violinist of the Stanley Quartet, having
previously held that post in the quartets of the University of Texas and Northwestern University.
The Regents now thank Professor Reyes for his twenty years of dedicated service and take
pleasure in naming him Professor Emeritus of Music.




MAY MEETING, 1985


291


RALPH G. SMITH, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health in the Department
of Environmental and Industrial Health, and Research Scientist in the Institute of Environmental
and Industrial Health, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1985, after a long and
distinguished academic career.
Professor Smith was born January 11, 1920, at St. John, New Brunswick, Canada. He
became a naturalized citizen of the United States on August 5, 1940. His undergraduate work
was at Wayne State University, where he received his Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry
in 1942. From 1942 to 1946, he served as a meteorologist in the U.S. Air Force, rising from a
private to the rank of captain. In 1946, he began his graduate studies at Wayne State
University, receiving an M.S. degree in analytical chemistry in 1949 and a Ph.D. in chemistry
in 1953. In 1955, he accepted an appointment as associate professor in the Department of
Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Medicine, Wayne State University. He was
promoted to professor and assistant chairman of the department in 1963, and became acting
chairman in 1967. He joined The University of Michigan in September 1970 as professor of
environmental and industrial health in the School of Public Health.
Throughout his career, Professor Smith has been active in numerous professional societies,
including the American Chemical Society, American Conference of Government Industrial
Hygienists, American National Standards Institute, National Academy of Sciences, and the
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. He served as vice president and president
of the American Industrial Hygiene Association. Professor Smith is the author of over 70
scientific papers and has contributed to numerous books. His research interests have dealt with
the general problems of air sampling and analysis, biological sampling and analysis, and
occupational exposure to substances such as beryllium, lead, mercury and chlorine.
Professor Smith has a deep interest in education and a particular dedication to students. His
able leadership has been an important factor in the evolution of the Industrial Hygiene Program
into one of the most outstanding in the country. He has given generously of himself and
contributed greatly to the maintenance and growth of The University of Michigan's excellent
reputation in this field.
In recognition of Ralph Smith's distinguished service, the Regents name him Professor
Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial Health in the School of Public Health.
CHESTER G. STARR, A.M. and H.P. Bentley Professor of History, in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, will retire on May 31, 1985, after a distinguished career at
The University of Michigan.
Professor Starr was born in Centralia, Missouri, on October 5, 1914. After taking his A.B.
degree in 1934 and his M.A. degree in 1935 from the University of Missouri, he entered the
graduate school of Cornell University and was awarded a Ph.D. degree in 1938. Following two
years of postdoctoral research in Rome, where he was fellow of the American Academy from
1938 to 1940, he returned to the United States to begin his teaching career at the University of
Illinois. After an interruption of four years for military service from 1942 to 1946-during
which he attained the rank of lieutenant colonel, was chief of the Historical Section, Headquarters Fifth Army in Italy, and received the Bronze Starr-he returned to the University of
Illinois. In the course of his long and distinguished service to that university, from 1940 to
1970, he held a number of significant administrative positions, including the chairmanship of
the Department of History from 1960 to 1961, achieved a reputation for excellence in teaching,
and in recognition of his publications in both Greek and Roman history received two Guggenheim
Fellowships in 1950-51 and 1958-59.
Over the past four decades at Illinois and since 1970 at The University of Michigan,
Professor Starr has demonstrated a remarkable ability to treat with imagination and authority an
impressive range of historical questions. No ancient historian in this country or abroad crosses
as convincingly the boundary between Greek and Roman history, or moves as easily through
the subsections of the historical discipline. Among his many publications, the following are
exemplary: The Roman Imperial Navy, 30 B.C. - A.D. 324; The Origins of Greek Civilization,
1100-650 B.C.; Athenian Coinage, 480-449 B.C.; Greeks and Persians in the Fourth Century,
B.C.; Social and Economic Growth of Early Greece, 800-500 B.C.; and The Roman Empire,
27 B.C. - A.D. 476: A Study in Survival. His achievements naturally led his peers in the field of
ancient history to select him as the founder-president of the Association of Ancient Historians
from 1974 to 1978 and his colleagues in the wider academic community to elect him a fellow of
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1980.
Eminence in his field has not diminished his commitment to teaching or his willingness to




292


MAY MEETING, 1985


take on administrative responsibilities. His virtuoso performances in the classroom and his
evident delight in explaining the complexity and significance of ancient societies have captivated several generations of students in this university. In the History Department he has
chaired important committees, including Fellowships and Placement, and served on the Execu'
tive Committee in 1980. In the wider university, Professor Starr has been a member of several
Rackham review committees and for more than a decade has served on the Executive Committee of the Kelsey Museum.
In recognition of his many contributions to scholarship and teaching, and for his long and
distinguished service to the historical profession, the Regents are pleased to name Chester G.
Starr as A.M. and H.P. Bentley Professor Emeritus of History.
VII. MEMORIALS
Chancellor Jenkins reported the death of Frances R. Cousens, Professor
Emeritus of Sociology. The following memorial statement was adopted.
The Regents express their heartfelt sorrow at the recent death of Emeritus Professor of
Sociology, FRANCES R. COUSENS, who died on April 6th, 1985 at the age of 72.
Born in Poland, Professor Cousens came to this country as a young child with her family
and graduated from Commerce High School in Detroit at the age of 15. She worked as a school
secretary for several years while pursuing college studies on a part-time basis at Wayne State
University. After 17 years, during which time she also raised three children, she earned her
bachelor's degree. A master's degree and a Ph.D. from the same university followed in 1952
and 1962.
In 1956, after teaching for a year at Ferndale High School, Professor Cousens became the
first research director of the Michigan Fair Employment Practices Commission. She helped to
pioneer the efforts to improve employment opportunities for minority groups and to set the
stage for the important civil rights laws which were to appear on the national and state scene
during the following decade. In June of 1962 she joined the Great Cities School Improvement
Project in association with the Detroit Public Schools, where she helped to develop various
programs designed to improve the learning environment of children from culturally disadvantaged families. This project was the impetus for the federal Head Start Program that followed in
the mid-1960's.
After teaching at Wayne State University and Mercy College, she joined the faculty at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn as a lecturer in Sociology in 1964 and was promoted to
Associate Professor in 1967 and to Professor in 1970. At Dearborn she helped to develop and
enrich the sociology program from its fledgling beginnings and was active in a variety of
campus-wide service activities. Committed to the goals of undergraduate education, Professor
Cousens was not only recognized as an excellent teacher but became a friend and trusted
counselor to numerous students over the years. In an era when many older women were
returning to school to seek higher education, she became a significant role model and offered
support and understanding to these people, who saw from Professor Cousens' example that it
was never too late to make changes in one's life.
Professor Cousens was a strong supporter of the Retired Students Program, which encourages people to enroll for courses and, in this regard, once again emerged as a role model to
those who, otherwise, did not see the University as a viable part of their lives. To Professor
Cousens the University was a rich and important community resource that should be made
widely available to whatever constituencies could benefit from such involvement.
The Regents, honoring Professor Cousens' service to her students, colleagues, and profession, join the entire University community in extending deep sympathy to her family and
friends.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 21, 1984




MAY MEETING, 1985


293


add: John Edward Fowler, III
Eve Rachel Pickman
Medical Campus Parking Needs
Mr. Frederick Mayer, University Planner reviewed additional parking
needs for the medical campus. He indicated that the study which had been
presented to the Regents in June 1981 showed that: the parking structure
then under construction would accommodate visitor and patient parking for
the new Adult General Hospital and, until the hospital opened, would be
available for staff parking; in the interim a remote lot at Fuller/Mitchell field
would be provided for staff parking with shuttle bus service to the medical
campus; once the structure was completed, parking would be adequate
provided the Adult General Hospital remained the only facility under construction; if construction for the Ambulatory Care Facility and Medical
Science Research buildings became activated, there would be a need for a
second parking structure.
These projects plus the Ronald McDonald House did, in fact, come
to fruition, and have impacted upon parking at the medical Center as
anticipated.
Mr. Richard Wolsfeld, traffic consultant from BRW  Associates, reviewed the overall parking system, including the central and north campus
areas, and concluded that parking at the Medical Center would soon reach
crisis stage. He reviewed several possible sites for a new structure and
explained the cost of expansion, maintenance, and management of the
system.
Parking Fee Increase
Mr. Wolsfeld then reviewed several scenarios to raise the parking rates
in order to put costs and revenues in balance. After consideration of all of
the alternatives, a permit rate increase of $15 per year for the first two years
and $20 per year for the next three years would best achieve the goal of
maintaining a positive parking fund balance.
Regent Baker then moved authorization to proceed with the design of a
1,000 car parking structure to be located at Glen and Catherine Streets, and
surface parking lots on the North Campus, increase the staff paid parking
fees as recommended, and appoint the firm of Luckenbach/Ziegelman as
architects for the project. Regent Waters seconded the motion.
Parking Facility Financing Alternatives
Vice President Brinkerhoff remarked that in earlier years parking facilties
were financed from the University's investment pool. But that pool has had
to accommodate other financing needs and has been used almost exclusively
for high priority academic requirements. He reviewed previous revenue and
financial arrangements for parking on the medical campus, indicating that
any shortfall in income to meet operations and debt service would have been
picked up by the medical service plans, and to a small degree, by the
general fund for those activities related to the Towsley Center for continuing
education.
Since this proposed structure would impact on the entire system, the
alternative charging mechanism was reviewed with the Senate Assembly




294


MAY MEETING, 1985


Committee on Financial Affairs, plant extension committee, the collective
bargaining organizations, and the personnel advisory groups for the main
areas on campus.
Vice President Brinkerhoff also mentioned three alternatives that were
available; special purpose areas that were set aside for senior medical and
clinical staff charging twice the regular permit rate, free commuter lots at
North Campus and Crisler arena with free commuter bus service, and special
arrangements for van and car pools which include reserved parking.
Regent Nielsen asked about the ticket validation system used by patients
to pay for parking costs. In response Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated
that it was used mostly by indigent patients and visitors. Regent Nielsen
then commented that, in his view, it is crucial to offer free parking to
patients and visitors in order to attract a greater volume of traffic to the
hospital on a regular basis. Any reduction in revenue which might result
from such a system ought to be picked up elsewhere.
President Shapiro pointed out that the visitor/patient parking structure
needs revenues to pay the debt service on the facility. In his view, the
hospital people and the medical service plans should make the decision to
finance the debt service if they believe free parking would increase business.
He did not believe the use of other University revenues would be an
appropriate expenditure for that purpose.
Regent Nielsen remarked that he felt the annual parking fees were too
low. He was not opposed to approving the current proposal, but the University ought to review the fee structure for the future.
Regent Roach cited several areas in the country where parking rates are
substantially higher than in Ann Arbor. He felt that the Ann Arbor community did not realize the bargain they were getting.
Regent Baker observed that he had not heard complaints about the cost
of parking from patients. He agreed, however, that it would be wise to
review the situation.
The President called for the vote and the motion was adopted.
University Audit Report
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that Carl Smith, Director of University Audits, would report on the audit activity of the last six months.
Mr. Smith first spoke about the organization and staffing of the audit
department, stating that he felt it was adequate at the present time. He said
as the University expands its networking capabilities on campus, it is likely
that a reduction of a financial auditor and an addition of an auditor in the
Electronic Data Processing area will be necessary.
Regent Roach noted that insofar as financial control of the University is
concerned and in the event there appears to be a problem, he hoped that Mr.
Smith would feel free to bring any issue to the Regents attention. Mr. Smith
thanked the Regents for their confidence.
Mr. Smith said that he did not have any comments on any specific audit.
He pointed out that this was the fifth report that provided follow-up information of the internal audit and Price Waterhouse activities. He was satisfied
with responses from the departments, and in some instances, it has not been
possible to implement the recommendations for various reasons.




MAY MEETING, 1985


295


Mr. Smith then responded to questions posed by Regent Power with
respect to the IMS Resource Administration review, the issue of changing
passwords, and a new security package covering DSC resources.
Regent Nielsen moved to accept the Auditor General report of the Flint
Campus and to approve the responses. Regent Roach seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Linguistics Department Reorganization
Vice President Frye addressed the recommendation to change the Department of Linguistics to a program in linguistics. The recommendation
was reviewed by the dean of LSA and has the support of the executive
officers. Dean Steiner would speak to the issue and Professor Catford,
chairman of the Department of Linguistics, had submitted a letter indicating
his views on the subject. Professor Stebbins would speak on behalf of the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs.
Dean Steiner read the letter from Professor Catford in which he stated
that he was in full agreement with the recommendations. In his judgment,
the recommendation would strengthen research and teaching in linguistics by
integrating the subject more fully into the academic structure of the University. Linguistics is the study of all aspects of language, its utilization by the
individual, and the functions it serves in society. It is the interdisciplinary
nature of linguistics beyond the narrow structural analysis of language that
makes the program organization particularly appropriate.
Reorganization would involve changes with respect to personnel and
new allegiances would have to be formed. But after the transitional period
was over, the University would be offering an unusually interesting, integrated program in linguistics which would attract superior students whose
interest in language would not be confined to the narrow, formal study of
syntax.
Dean Steiner indicated that the programmatic concerns that led to the
proposal were the change in the normal state of affairs in academic life, and
the slippage in the program itself. Three options were then considered: put
additional money into the program in order to arrest the slippage, reduce or
discontinue the program, or to try to change the program dramatically. It
was determined that the best hope for restoring quality to the program in
linguistics would be reorganization.
The reorganization of the program would provide more involvement of
the linguists on campus. The proposed leadership for the program, coming
from outside the present department, would be able to function effectively
by overcoming some of the divisions that have developed within the department, and it would be possible to identify and fill open positions that have
been deferred in the department for some time. It is believed that the
inconvenience and adaptation by every member of the present faculty is
worth the effort in order to re-establish the program at a high level of
quality. The interests of all concerned have been carefully considered, and
the importance of the role of language in human societies is too important to
give up without a serious investment of effort.
Dean Steiner then mentioned the appointment of a director and an
interim director, and the creation of a steering commitee of linguistics




296


MAY MEETING, 1985


consisting of seven persons, three from within the department and four from
outside the present department. The committee will be asked to find the
personnel who will play an active role in the program, the structuring of the
curriculum, and the development of a mechanism by which that committee
can become a regular executive committee.
Professor Stebbins indicated that SACUA discussed the issue at some
length and supports the proposal, and feels that it is the best solution under
the circumstances. There were certain principles, however, that SACUA
would like to discuss further with respect to the internal review and in
continuing dialogue with the Academic Affairs Office.
When asked by Regent Baker what those principles might be, Professor
Stebbins responded that there is some concern that perhaps the surgery
might have had to be less radical had it been possible to change earlier.
Some attempts were made at some mid-course to make corrections, but the
decline has been a fairly lengthy one. However, SACUA was supportive of
the reorganization.
Regent Power moved to approve the reorganization of linguistics from
the current departmental structure to that of a program to be called the
Program in Linguistics, effective July 1, 1985. Regent Nielsen seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Program in Linguistics - Interim Director
Regent Nielsen then moved to approve the appointment of Robbins
Burling, Professor of Anthropology and Liguistics as Interim Director of the
Program in Linguistics, effective July 1, 1985. Regent Smith seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Program in Linguistics - Director
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the appointment of Thomas E. Toon,
Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, as Director of the
Program in Linguistics, effective July 1, 1986.
ROTC Course Credit
Regent Nielsen introduced the subject of ROTC courses for credit which
had been addressed by an individual on public comments Thursday afternoon. Apparently the College of Engineering and the School of Business
Administration gave elective credits for some of the ROTC courses, but the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, does not. He asked for an
explanation. Dean Meiland indicated he did not know the basis for this
decision; perhaps the literary college does not consider ROTC courses as
critical courses.
Regent Roach suggested that the issue should be discussed with the
faculty once again. There appears to be some inconsistency because band
and glee club have been granted credit. What were their educational qualities compared to ROTC courses? President Shapiro suggested that the Dean
and his colleagues review the subject again with Vice President Frye, and
report to the Board on the current status and thinking before deciding on a
next step.




MAY MEETING, 1985


297


Recreational Facilities Fee Increase
Vice President Brinkerhoff addressed the request to increase the student
fee for recreational facilities. He said that since 1973 when the current fee of
$10.00 per term per student was established, there has not been any increase, although user fees for non-students have been increased. Costs for
operations, utilities, and plant and maintenance have increased substantially
without adequate budget increases.
Vice President Brinkerhoff mentioned a utilization study that ISR had
been commissioned to undertake by the recreational sports department. The
study, which included a wide cross-section of users, revealed that a modest
fee increase would be preferred to a reduction in the number of hours or
other program adjustments. It is therefore recommended that a phased
increase of $1.00 per term per student each year over the next five years be
approved. During that period, the non-student user fee would be adjusted in
relationship to the increased cost and/or inflation.
Regent Roach asked if this fee was included in tuition or listed separately? He indicated his concern regarding listing all of the special student
fee assessments as tuition. It makes the tuition figure look much higher than
it really is. In response, Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that it is listed
as one figure; however, a listing of all allocations by function is also
provided.
Regent Power moved to approve an increase of student fees to support
operational costs for recreational facilities by $1.00 per term per student for
each year of the next five years. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Milo E. Oliphant Trust Resolution
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the trust agreement with respect to
the estate of Milo E. Oliphant, and the resolution for adoption to accept the
gift.
Regent Nielsen moved adoption of the following resolution. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted:
"RESOLVED, that the Regents of The University of Michigan, a
constitutional body corporate, does hereby accept the aforedescribed bequests established by the Trust of Milo E. Oliphant in accordance with the
terms expressed in the Trust Agreement as quoted above."
Wolfson Endowment Fund Expenditures
Regent Roach moved to approve the uses of the income of the Wolfson
Endowment Funds as recommended by the law faculty. Regent Nielsen
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Addition to Common Stock Master List
Regent Roach moved that the holding of the common stock of General
Motors Class E common stock be ratified as an addition to the University's
master list of common stocks. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
A brief recess followed.




298


MAY MEETING, 1985


Easement Request - Menominee County
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed a request for an ingress and egress
easement in Harris Township, Menominee County. He indicated that the
200 acre parcel had been sold two months ago and now the owners would
like to be able to have access to the parcel. The normal practice in the state
is to provide free access over existing lumbering trails and the University is
being asked to provide an easement in that respect.
Considerable discussion followed with respect to the University's responsibility in this instance, whether an easement is necessary if the owners
have the public right to travel over logging trails, and the problem of
landlocking a parcel with respect to other land that one owns. Regent Roach
was concerned about the University's access to its property in the same area.
He indicated that perhaps in exchange for this easement, the Johnson's
would make the University a grantee on their easement so that the University could access its property.
Regent Nielsen commented that the easement that is set forth in this
conveyance is for roadway purposes. He felt that the University should be
more restrictive than that because that would open up the property for other
purposes. President Shapiro said that the various suggestions would be
considered and the issue would be brought back to the Regents with alternate recommendations.
Space Research Building Addition
Regent Baker moved to approve the selection of the site and authorize
proceeding with the addition to the Space Research Building, as outlined.
Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Michigan League Renovations
Regent Power moved to approve the addition to the cafeteria and kitchen
renovation at the Michigan League and appoint Fry Associates as the project
architect. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
E.H. Krause Building Renovations
Regent Roach moved to approve the renovations to the laboratory at the
E. H. Kraus building. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Bylaws Revisions
The revisions to the Regents' Bylaws were deferred.
Melvin S. Brannon Resolution
The Regents approved the resolution for Melvyn S. Brannon who is
retiring from the UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee.
RHP Contract Awards
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the award of a contract for the RHP,
Adult General Hospital (AGH) and Ambulatory Care Facility (ACF) projects, communication systems remainder of proposal package #C4R, AGH/
ACF general radio paging/nursing radio paging, to Multi-Comm, Inc.,




MAY MEETING, 1985


299


Livonia, Michigan, and Medtronex, Inc., Bridgeview, Illinois. Regent Smith
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Smith moved to approve the award of a contract for the RHP,
Adult General Hospital (AGH) and Ambulatory Care Facility (ACF) projects, communications systems proposal package #C6, AGH/ACF central
dictation, to Harris Corporation/Lanier Business Products, Lansing, Michigan. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Student Fees
The Regents received an information item concerning student fee matters.
With respect to student fees, President Shapiro indicated that Michigan
Student Assembly will bring a proposal for an increase at the June meeting.
The University Activities Center is considering also asking for an increase in
their fee, but a proposal has not been received at this time.
Medical Technology Program
Vice President Frye commented upon the interim report with respect to
the Medical Technology Program. He indicated that Dr. Mary Ann Swain
has personally taken the matter in hand with very encouraging results.
Twenty students had expressed an interest in the program on their application and apparently two either did not enroll or withdrew. The 18 remaining
individuals were contacted by Dr. Swain and invited to attend a luncheon for
the purpose of discussing the options that might be available. Nine of the 18
individuals indicated that they had already made a change in their career
choice and were no longer interested in the Medical Technology Program.
Of the remaining 9 individuals, 7 accepted the invitation but only 4
showed up; two were unable to attend. Various options were discussed,
including the possibility of taking the chemistry course at Dearborn this
summer and then moving into the junior level clinical program, completing
a four-year baccalaureate program in biology, then taking the clinical training in a fifth year in which case the University would agree to pay those
expenses at a clinical site, and would assist them to transfer from the
University to other medical technology programs, if they preferred that
approach.
The students indicated that they would think about the options and
discuss it with their parents. Dr. Swain will follow up with each student and
attempt to locate the students who did not attend the luncheon and offer
them an appointment to discuss the options. Vice President Frye thanked Dr.
Swain for pursuing the problem in such an extraordinarily responsible
manner.
Regent Roach also commended Dr. Swain. He felt that the options
described were most equitable. Anyone who is seriously interested in this
program and The University of Michigan can achieve any reasonable objective.
President Shapiro indicated that the University has begun to take some
action on the safety issues that were discussed at the public comments
session on Thursday and Vice President Henry Johnson would now speak to
that subject.




300


MAY MEETING, 1985


Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness
Vice President Johnson remarked that the executive officers have approved an expenditure of $75,000 for an initial start-up on a sexual assault
prevention and awareness service. Administratively this will not be a freestanding unit because it could not function effectively that way, and there
are other free-standing operations in the University to which it could report
administratively. In Vice President Johnson's view, it would be best to
begin modestly in terms of what is possible and then, as data substantiates
and justifies the service, expansion can occur. In the meantime, assessments
will be made of existing programs, such as the night owl bus program and
the escort service, for a determination of their potential and improvement
capabilities.
Regent Baker commented that his intuitive feeling was that examination
of the rapes and sexual assault instances on campus would reveal that
alcohol was a very significant factor in each of them. Kegs of beer can be
delivered to fraternity houses and to dormitories and present an enormously
difficult problem in preventing potential assault on campus. He said that
there should be an evaluation and serious consideration given to that aspect
of the problem.
Vice President Johnson indicated that while there presently is a housing
policy that prohibits delivery of kegs of beer, kegs still seem to get into the
residence halls. The University does not have any control over the fraternity
houses, or private residences.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise
indicated.
Transportation costs for the month of April totaled $1,509.21.
The Regents adjourned to meet on June 20 and 21, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




JUNE MEETING, 1985
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 20, 1985
The Regents met at 1:30 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President
Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated a change in
the format by placing the report on information technology intitiatives first
on the agenda and delaying the report on the status of the budget until
Friday.
Information Technology Initiatives Report
Vice President Frye introduced Douglas Van Houweling, Vice Provost
for Information Technology, who would lead the discussion. Vice President
Frye commented that the post of vice provost had been created several
months ago in order to provide leadership in developing objectives and
strategies in the area of information technology for the University. The
proposal to be presented would build upon the programs that have been
established within this last year at the College of Engineering and the School
of Business Administration. The plan would provide universal access to
computing resources for all students on campus.
Vice Provost Van Houweling presented an overview of educational
technology and reviewed the history and current status of information technology at the University, the rationale for the University's strong initiatives
in the use of such technology, and the evolution of the environment of
information technology over the coming years.
He indicated that the University has a leadership tradition in the use of
information technology through the development of a high quality time
sharing system which is known throughout the world as the Michigan
terminal system, and the development of strong institutional data bases. The
University of Michigan is also well known for the development of the Merit
Network, considered one of the most successful of all state-wide computing
networks, which has been adopted for networking on the campus as UMNET.
Because the information technology environment is important to higher
education, ways must be found to provide this costly technology in the most
efficient mode possible to all students at the University. It will be necessary
to shift from an environment which is centered on a large, central computer
to one centered on a network that provides a substantial number of computers. With the use of common software, it will be possible to integrate this
technology into a single system. The challenge is great, but the University
has the expertise and capability to successfully accomplish the task.
Vice Provost Van Houweling indicated that a number of institutions
require students to purchase computers; however, in his view, this is an
301




302


JUNE MEETING, 1985


inappropriate direction to take at this time. The type of workstations to
which students need access are prohibitively priced; therefore, the University should provide computers in clusters on campus for shared access. A
program could be established to enable those students who might need
intense access to a computer for a short period of time to rent a workstation.
Access to central services, support for instructional use, remodeling of
lecture and teaching facilities, and network access to connect all of the
public workstations will need to be provided.
Beginning in the fall of 1985 every student would have free entitlement
of $50.00 of computer money per term, and facility access will be expanded
to include students who use computing in their courses. This will necessitate
the expansion of the public workstation capability. The plan would increase
the current capability to 450 workstations by the beginning of 1986, 625 by
September 1986, and by the 1988 academic year to 1700 workstations.
The telecommunications system which now is being installed will include University Housing by the fall of 1986, and present plans include the
establishment of a center for the development of educational computing.
Vice Provost Van Houweling spoke of the cost requirements of the
system. He indicated that an increase above the current computing budget of
approximately $4.6 million would be needed to initiate the program in
1985-86 and an additional $8 million per year starting in 1986-87. Additional revenue to support the program would be derived from a $50.00
student fee assessment for the winter term 1986 which would be increased to
$100 per term beginning in the spring/summer term of 1986, and from other
sources. Vice Provost Van Houweling indicated that, in his view, this plan
is lower in cost to students than other alternative plans and meets the real
needs of the University in allowing a greater number of students to fully
participate in this technology.
The discussion that followed concerned the growth in demand and the
adequacy of supply as the system develops; the accessibility of the program
to the Dearborn and Flint campuses; the approximate cost; the MERIT
network and its capabilities; and the utilization of the technology in the
elementary and secondary schools.
Vice Provost Van Houweling commented that initially the need for
access to workstations would not be as great in the areas other than engineering and business administration which will enable the University to keep
the supply and demand in balance. He said the leadership of the engineering
and business school in this area has been very supportive and has made the
challenge to make this technology capability available campus-wide less
difficult.
President Shapiro indicated that the program does not require any action
at this time and will be returned to the agenda for formal consideration by
the Board at a subsequent meeting.
Michigan Student Assembly Fee Increase
Vice President Johnson commented that Michigan Student Assembly
was requesting an increase in the student fee for that organization of 64
cents per student to be spread over the next two years, which would bring
the total assessment to $5.40 per student per term. He then introduce Paul




JUINE MEETING, 1985


303


Josephson, President of MSA, Margaret Nichols, Director of Student Legal
Services, Jeffrey Ditz, Director of the Ann Arbor Tenants Union, Kurt
Munenchow, MSA's budget priorities committee chairman, and Scott Page,
former president of MSA, who would present the rationale for the request.
Mr. Josephson reviewed the administration of the Assembly and the
student organizations affiliated with it. Ms. Margaret Nichols reviewed the
mission, the composition and the goals of student legal services and indicated that the climate of the office is now one of cooperation. In his
commentary on the Ann Arbor Tenants Union, Jeff Ditz said that housing is
second only to tuition in the cost of obtaining and education and reviewed
the union's role in responding to student problems.
The Regents discussed several issues concerning the Assembly's activities, including the kinds of organizations funded which do not represent the
views of the majority of students, the percentage of student involvement in
MSA, the funding of the Women's Crisis Center, voluntary versus mandatory fees, and the possibility of an interdisciplinary relationship between the
Michigan Daily and the MSA newspaper.
Regent Baker indicated that, in his view, the Assembly's course evaluation program is very worthwhile, and the Assembly's attempts to be more
representative of the students is commendable. However, he believed a
different funding system should be employed on a trial basis for about two
years. He then moved that the increase in funding for Michigan Student
Assembly be accepted, but on a voluntary basis by the students. Regent
Nielsen seconded the motion.
Regent Roach said that he would oppose the motion and moved to
amend it by deleting the reference to a voluntary increment. As amended the
motion would then support the recommendation of the administration. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Roach indicated that the Regents have always treated MSA
differently than other organizations because it does function on an elected
basis as the student government of this University. He said he was concerned that a voluntary procedure would cost MSA more in time, effort and
money than the amount of funds that would be raised. The students approved the mandatory fee at the recent election by a wide margin which is a
strong endorsement.
Regent Brown commented that support for MSA is similar to the tax
United State citizens pay to support its government. To assess the fee on a
voluntary basis would be detrimental to the organization. In his view, it is a
lesson in civics and political science, and those who choose to become
involved gain valuable experience by doing so. It is true that the turnout is
not as it could be, but that is not significantly different than the nation's
presidential elections. He indicated his continued support for the mandatory
fee.
Regent Power stated that she was pleased to perceive the considerable
progress MSA has made in terms of the substance and integrity with which
it is managing its affairs. The organization is an important part of the
collegial effort of the student community. Regent Baker commented that all
of the Regents support student government and especially responsible stu



304


JUNE MEETING, 1985


dent government. The Regents are elected to represent the point of view of
the people of the state of Michigan and the Regents try to do that.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the amendment proposed by
Regent Roach to amend the original motion which would delete the word
voluntary from the motion. The motion was adopted with Regents Baker and
Nielsen voting no.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the amended motion which
would support the administration's recommendation as follows:
(1). Increase student fees for continuing programs for a two-year period:
32 cents per student per term in 1985-86 from $4.75 to $5.07 (6.7%
increase); 33 cents per student per term in 1986-87 from $5.07 to $5.40
(6.5% increase); and (2) any additional funding for Student Legal Services
for 1985-86 and 1986-87 should be accomplished within the fee increases
above. The motion was adopted with Regents Baker and Nielsen voting no.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of April 18 and 19, 1985 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and the Replacement Hospital Project.
Interim Vice President Sussman placed on file a report on grants and
contracts for research.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice President Cosovich reported gifts from the following sources. They
were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy fund............... $58,788
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for research in the Medical School
fund..................................................      8,250
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  97,503
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the Amoco Faculty Grant in the
College of Engineering fund........................................... 20,000
Mary G. Armstrong Estate Five Series H Savings Bonds; for the Alumni Center
fund...............................................................  21,487
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund.... 10,500
Barris, Sott, Denn and Driker, Detroit; for the Herbert Sott Fund in the Law School
fund...............................................................   5,000
Battle Creek Manufacturers, Inc., Battle Creek; for arthritis research in the Medical
School fund........................................................  15,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso; for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley
Scholarship fund.....................................................  10,407
Beatrice Borst Estate; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan funds..  5,000
Bristol-Myers Fund, Inc., New York, New York; for the Margaret and Herman Sokol
Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies funds......  5,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; for research in
the Medical School fund..............................................  12,500




JUNE MEETING, 1985


305


Children's Leukemia Foundation, Southfield; for research in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  15,232
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Colombo, Bloomfield Hills the increase in cash surrender
value of an insurance policy; for the Law School fund......................  5,370
Continental Water Company, Saint Louis, Missouri; gift at the direction of Mrs. Ruth
Mott for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Project fund..... 100,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso; for the Cook Family Undergraduate Admissions
Scholars Recruitment Program fund..................................... 36,300
Margaret H. Davis Estate; for Michigauma fund.............................. 17,000
Deloitte Haskins & Sells Foundation, New York, New York; for model sampling
research in the School of Business Administration fund..................... 25,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland; for the Dow Chemical Grant in
Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering fund........................  8,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for solid state research in the College of Engineering
fund...............................................................  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Sumner J. Foster, Lexington, Massachusetts; Bausch & Lomb, Inc.
common stock and cash gift of $3,500; for the Campaign for Michigan - Pending
Designation  fund....................................................  10,156
Gannett Foundation, Inc., Rochester, New York; for the Journalists in Residence
Program in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund.............. 35,968
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  14,860
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for automotive transportation research in
the Institute of Science and Technology  fund.............................  15,000
Grumman Aerospace Corporation, Bethpage, New York; for robotics research in the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  15,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut; for the GTE Foundation Fellowship in the
School of Business Administration  fund..................................  15,000
Harris Corporation, Melbourne, Florida; for the College of Engineering fund...... 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Coconut Grove, Florida; for the Hughes Research
Foundation - Medical Science II Building fund.......................... 5,000,000
William J. Isaacson Estate; for unrestricted support of the Law School and of The
University  of M ichigan  funds..........................................  10,000
Joan Automotive Industries, Inc., Lowell, Massachusetts; for band equipment in the
School  of  M usic  fund................................................  10,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York; for research in the
M edical  School  fund.................................................  10,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek; for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business Administration Component funds.................. 50,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for the Campaign for Michigan - Eye Center
Com ponent  fund.....................................................  800,000
Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, Florida; for research in the College of Pharmacy
fund..................................................               7,500
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
for patient care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals funds........  7,416
K mart Corporation, International Headquarters, Troy; for unrestricted support of the
Campaign for Michigan - School of Business Administration Component fund.  50,000
Mr. and Mrs. Walter G. Krapohl, Flint Hoover Universal, Inc. common stock; for
unrestricted  support of the Law  School fund..............................  9,262
Kroc Foundation, Santa Barbara, California; for the Ray A. and Robert L. Kroc
Lectureships in Diabetes and Rheumatology Research in the Medical School
fund.................................................. 100,000
Mrs. Howard J. Lacy, II, Indianapolis, Indiana National Medical Enterprises, Inc.,
common stock; for the Gifts Pending Designation fund..................... 23,063
Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Sunnyvale, California; for robotics research
in  the  College  of Engineering  fund......................................  15,000
Clara T. Lyman Trust; for scholarships and other student financial aid in the Medical
School fund..................................................       25,363




306


JUNE MEETING, 1985


Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, the Medical School, and in the Michigan Historical
Collections Library funds............................................ 720,000
Mrs. Roy G. Michell, Birmingham The increase in the cash surrender values of two
insurance policies; for the Marie Michell Memorial Scholarship fund..........  5,109
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of
Michigan Hospitals funds............................................  13,000
Michigan Foundation for Medical and Health Education, Lansing; for the James D.
Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School fund............................. 12,456
Minneapolis Star & Tribune Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota; for the Journalists
in Residence Program in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts funds...  50,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., Saint Paul, Minnesota; for
macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology fund......  10,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology fund....... 124,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor; for research in the
Medical School fund................................................ 17,944
Isabel Hicks Nauman Estate; for the Charles V. Hicks Endowment in the Law School
fund...............................................................  77,489
Nelson Research, Irvine, California; for research in the College of Pharmacy fund..  6,250
Arthur H. Nixon Estate, for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan
funds..............................................................  9,7 6 8
N L Industries Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the N L Industries
Foundation  Scholarship  fund...........................................  7,500
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Operhall, North Muskegon Delta Air Lines, Inc. common
stock; for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering fund............  5,204
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York; for population studies research in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........................  5,194
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek; for the Schoder Foundation
Cleft Palate Clinic, in The University of Michigan Hospitals fund............ 10,000
Warren L. Sharfman, Washington, D.C. Northeast Utilities common stock; for the
Warren L. Sharfman Deferred Economics Endowment for the College of Literature,
Science  and  the  Arts  fund.............................................  7,438
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, and in the Medical School funds............ 37,500
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the
M edical  School  fund.................................................  24,188
Michael A. Stoner, Carlisle, Pennsylvania; for the Victor L. Streeter Fellowship in the
College  of Engineering  fund...........................................  22,500
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts; for the Scottish Rites Research
Programs in  the  Medical School fund....................................  6,239
Hobart Taylor, Jr., Estate; for support of the Michigan Historical Collections fund... 40,000
Bertha Bell Dilley Trumpower Estate; for radiological and glaucoma research in the
M edical  School fund.................................................  13,827
Union Pacific Corporation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  6,328
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for pharmacological research in the Medical School,
and  for Employee Matching  Gifts funds.................................  5,515
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor; for the
Warner-Lambert Fellowships in the College of Pharmacy fund...............  9,800
Howard N. Weiner, Southfield; for urban security studies in the College of Architecture  and  Urban  Planning  fund..........................................  5,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Vojkan and Nadja Budimir, Dearborn. Emil Weddige's "Bicentennial Suite"; for
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Library




JUNE MEETING, 1985


307


Albert J. and Margaret Coudron, Ypsilanti. Three works of African art, Kuba People,
Zaire; for the Museum of Art
Mrs. John R. Cuneo, Westport, Connecticut. A collection of research material on the
French-Indian and Revolutionary Wars; for the William L. Clements Library
John Kelly, Ann Arbor. 380 volumes of Michigan Reports and 24 volumes of
Michigan Appeals Reports; for the Law School Library
Gultekin A. Ludden, Columbus, Ohio. The professional library of Mrs. Kamer
Aga-Oglu; for the Museum of Anthropology
Macko's Formal World, Ltd., Flint. 1,043 items of formal clothing; for The University of Michigan-Flint Department of Theater
Midwest Microwave, Ann Arbor. Forty-four pieces of microwave equipment; for the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
National Semiconductor Corporation, Santa Clara, California. Ten DB32016 Development Boards (microcomputers); for the Department of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science
Dr. and Mrs. Paul M. Vanek, Ann Arbor. David Diao's "Untitled -Red"; for the
Museum of Art
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
William Ballis, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, Fall term, 1985
Charles C. Brown, Ph.D., Professor of Economics, with tenure
David Buss, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Laurent Clozel, Doctorat d'Etat en Mathematiques, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure
Cameron B. Courtney, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a class in Mathematics, UMFlint, Spring, Summer,and Fall terms, 1985
Todd Endelman, Ph.D., Professor of History, with tenure
Gerald M. Faeth, Ph.D., Arthur B. Modine Professor of Engineering, with tenure, for a
ten-year period, July 1, 1985
John Field, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, Fall term, 1985
Joseph Jesse Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1985
Marilyn L. Flynn, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure
Kenneth A. Foon, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, June 1,
1985
Richard P. Garrison, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Industrial Health, without tenure, July 1,
1985
Otto G. Graf, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, Fall term 1985 and Winter term 1986
Carleton H. Griffin, J.D., Professor of Accounting, without tenure
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus and Curator Emeritus, appointed as Senior Research
Scientist in the Museum of Anthropology, July 1, 1985
William Haber, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1985
Philip J. Hanlon, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure




308


JUNE MEETING, 1985


W. Albert Hiltner, Professor Emeritus, appointed as Director of the McGraw-Hill Observatory,
July 1, 1985
Sara Caroline Humphreys, M.A., Professor of History, with tenure
George Kish, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, Fall term, 1985
Roger C. Kormendi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure
Alfred Whitford Lerdahl, M.A., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
Essam Mahmoud, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Management, without tenure
Warren F. Miller, Jr., Ph.D., Visiting Goebel Professor of Nuclear Engineering
Horace M. Miner, Professor Emeritus, appointed Curator in the Museum of Anthropology, July
1, 1985
James V. Neel, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the Department of Human
Genetics, July 1, 1985
Gillian Rice, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure
Omry Ronen, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure
William H. Sewell, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of History and Sociology, with tenure
Hossein Shalchi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure
J. Radcliffe Squires, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1985
Edward Stasheff, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, Fall term, 1985
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus, appointed as consultant in the Department of Dermatology, July 1, 1985
James Turner, Ph.D., Professor of History, with tenure
Linda S. Wilson, Ph.D., appointed Vice President for Research, for a five-year term, August
15, 1985
Leonard Woodcock, appointed the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, Academic
year, 1985-86
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwide indicated
Paul Adams, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, appointed Chairman of the Biology
Department, UM-Flint
Robert G. Behrens, from Interim Vice Chancellor to Vice Chancellor for Business Affairs,
UM-Dearborn
Enoch Brater, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, September 1, 1985
John Russell Brown, Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, and Chairman of the
Department of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, also appointed Professor of English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, September 1, 1985
John Creighton Campbell, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, reappointed
Director of the Center for Japanese Studies
Barbara Cervenka, Adjunct Assistant Professor, reappointed Assistant Dean School of Art
J. Latham Claflin, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology and Section Head, Immunology, also appointed Acting Chairman, Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
August 1, 1985
Thomas L. Coffey, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, appointed Chairman of the Department
of Sociology, Anthropology and Social Work, UM-Flint
Christopher R. Coddington, Assistant Professor of Theatre, appointed Chairman of the Theatre
Department, UM-Flint
Robert E. Cole, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Business
Administration, September 1, 1985
Jason L. Finkle, Professor of Population Planning and International Health, appointed Chairman of the Department of Population Planning and International Health
George I. Haddad, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed
Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science




JUNE MEETING, 1985                                309
Victor Hawthorne, Professor of Epidemiology, reappointed Chairman of the Department of
Epidemiology
Robert E. Johnson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Architecture, with
tenure, September 1, 1985
Jay Lesenger, from Visiting Associate Professor to Associate Professor of Music, without
tenure, September 1, 1985
Claude R. Martin, Jr., reappointed as the Isadore and Leon Winkelman Professor of Retail
Marketing, September 1, 1985
John Mersereau, Jr., Professor of Slavic Languages, with tenure, and Director of the Residential College, also appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Slavic Languages and
Literatures
L. Nathan Oaklander, Professor of Philosophy, appointed Chairman of Philosophy Department,
UM-Flint
Willis C. Patterson, Professor of Music and Chairman of the Voice Department, reappointed
Associate Dean of the School of Music
Marvin W. Peterson, Professor of Education, reappointed Director of the Center for the Study
of Higher Education and Postsecondary Education
William G. Rosenberg, Professor of History, with tenure, reappointed Director of the Center
for Russian and East European Studies, September 1, 1985
Suzanne Selig, Assistant Professor of Health Care and Human Resources and Director, Allied
Health Programs, reappointed Coordinator of the School of Health Sciences
Peter E. Smouse, Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School, with tenure, also appointed
Professor of Biological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
1985
Alfred A. Stuart, Director of Scheduling, appointed University Registrar
James R. Taylor, reappointed the Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of Marketing
The following committee appointments were approved.
Institute of Science and Technology Executive Committee
Michael Sivak, to complete term, through June 30, 1986, vice John Melvin, resigned
Robert M. Howe, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985
Kensall D. Wise, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985
Charles F. Yocum, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Michael M. Martin,
term expired
Michigan Memorial-Phoenix Project Executive Committee
Isadore A. Bernstein, to succeed himself, beginning July 1, 1985
Kent M. Terwilliger, to succeed himself, beginning July 1, 1985
College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint Executive Committee
Anita K. Barry, for a three-year term beginning July 1, 1985, vice Vincent O'Keefe, term
expired
Harriet M. Wall, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Nallapu N. Reddy, term
expired
School of Management, UM-Flint Executive Committee
C. Peethambaran Kartha, for a three-year term, beginning September 1, 1985 vice Dennis F.
Ellis, term expired
Walter J. Woerheide, for a three-year term, beginning September 1, 1985, vice John A.
Larson, term expired
School of Music Executive Committee
Marilyn Mason Brown, for a one-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Donald McInnes,
resigned
James E. Dapogny, for a one-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Robert S. Hatten, on
leave
Charles R. Fisher, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice John Mohler, term
expired
Leslie W. Guinn, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Lynn Bartholomew, term
expired




310


JUNE MEETING, 1985


Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Rhetaugh G. Dumas, to succeed herself, for a three-year term beginning July 1, 1985
John W. Kingdom, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985
June E. Osborn, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr.,
term expired
Middle English Dictionary Council
Thomas E. Toon, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice James W. Downer, term
expired
Charles Witke, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Howard D. Cameron, term
expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Michael J. Ryan, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Paul P. Danos, term
expired
Dennis G. Severance for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Gunter Dufey, term
expired
School of Art Executive Committee
Richard Raiselis, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985 vice Thomas J. Larkin, retired
Jon N. Rush, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Hiroko S. Pijanowski, term
expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Deborah J. Oakley, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Sally L. Lusk, term
expired
Bonnie L. Metzger, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Marilyn Svejda, term
expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Stuart Bundy, reappointed for a four-year term
Virginia McCandless, reappointed for a four-year term
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for Joel Hass,
T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, and JingHeng S. Ma, Lecturer in Far Eastern Languages and Literatures.
Regent Nielsen moved approval of the above personnel actions and
Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Appointment of Linda S. Wilson as Vice President for Research
With respect to the appointment of Dr. Linda Wilson as Vice President
for Research, Regent Baker indicated that he would vote negatively on the
appointment. He indicated that he has objected to the dual appointment in
the past and does not know any other way to express his concern except in a
public way.
Regent Vamer commented that she was completely delighted and supportive of the appointment, and especially pleased that a women was
appointed to the position.
Regent Nielsen remarked that the selection process considered all of the
various aspects before a final decision was made. He said in his opinion
Mrs. Wilson is a premier candidate for the vice presidency, and he hoped
the appointment could be approved unanimously.
Regent Power noted that the University has always tried to respond to
the concerns of the schools and colleges to recruit superior candidates, and
that over the years it has become clear that appropriate employment opportunities for a couple have been of major significance. She asked for a short
report indicating the excellent opportunities that have may been lost because




JUNE MEETING, 1985


311


the University has not responded to the change in work patterns. Regent
Power reiterated her support for the appointment of Dr. Wilson.
Regent Roach agreed that this problem has become a fact of life in
society today and the University will have to continue to explore the various
possibilities. He indicated his delight that in this case there was an opportunity to do so. The University ought to make every effort to attract excellent
candidates.
President Shapiro then called for the vote. The motion was adopted with
Regent Baker voting no.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Director
Vivian Rogers, Ph.D., Director for the Center for Continuing Education of Women, September
1, 1985
Assistant Professor
Susan E. Jackson, Ph.D., Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations
Paul A. Sieving, Ph.D., Ophthalmology, May 1, 1985
Instructor
James C. Andrews, M.D., Radiology
Eric L. Bressler, M.D., Radiology
Kenneth A. Buckwalter, M.D., Radiology
Howard Dome, M.D., Radiology
Edward A. Ewald, M.D., Internal Medicine, December 1, 1984
Katherine F. Gerke, M.D., Radiology
Gregg R. Mattison, M.D., Radiology
Thomas Vahey, M.D., Radiology
Kenneth D. Williams, M.D., Radiology
Lecturer
Barbara S. Adams, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, March 1, 1985
Jan P. Clement, M.S.P.H., Hospital Administration
Kevin M. Sloan, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, May 6, 1985
William P. Waring, III., M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, May 1, 1985
Visiting Professor
Rex L. Lowe, Ph.D., Biological Station
Seiichi Nakada, Ph.D., Far Eastern Languages and Literatures
David M. Phillips, J.D., Law, June 10, 1985
Christopher D. Stone, L.L.B., Law, June 10, 1985
Renata W. Siemienski-Zochowska, Ph.D., Political Science, May 1, 1985
Visiting Associate Professor
Laurence D. Fechter, Ph.D., Otorhinolaryngology, April 30, 1985
Samuel J. Knecht, M.F.A., Center for Western European Studies, June 1, 1985
Visiting Assistant Professor
Francesca J. Cuthbert, Ph.D., Biological Station
Rebecca M. Glover, Ph.D., Biological Station
Claudia L. Jolls, Ph.D., Biological Station
Adjunct Associate Professor
Vassilis C. Stamoudis, Ph.D., Environmental and Industrial Health, May 1, 1985




312


JUNE MEETING, 1985


Adjunct Assistant Professor
Clifford L. Broman, Ph.D., Sociology
Sheila A. Crowley, M.S., Nursing, April 1, 1985
Arlene Loucks, M.S., Nursing, March 1, 1985
Helmut Maier, Ph.D., Mathematics, May 1, 1985
Perry A. Wilbur, B.A., Sports Management and Communication, January 1, 1985
Adjunct Instructor
Anne E. Esdale, M.P.H., Health Care, UM-Flint, May 1, 1985
Adjunct Lecturer
Kiumi Akingbehin, M.A., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Winniefred Anthonio, M.A., Germanic Languages and Literatures
Susan K. Bejin, B.S., Art, May 1, 1985
Karen Bolak, ED.D., Education, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Kathleen A. Decker, B.S.N., Nursing, May 1, 1985
Felicity C. Douglas, M.A., English Language Institute, May 1, 1985
Alan H. Foster, M.B.A., Finance
Kathleen A. Freundl, M.S., Nursing, May 8, 1985
Phyllis T. Grummon, Ph.D, Education, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Karen R. Hibben, M.A., Humanities, May 1, 1985
James A. Jones, M.A.T., Education, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Bela V. Kovacs, M.S.M.E., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
S. Dogan Koyluoglu, Ph.D., Political Science, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Cheryl Lauber, M.S.N. Nursing, May 1, 1985
Edward J. LaVigne, B.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint, May 1, 1985
Sean P. McAdinden, M.A., Economics, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Hugh B. Muller, B.S., Natural Resources, January 1, 1985
Holly Peters-Golden, Ph.D., Residential College, May 1, 1985
Mary J. Reutter, M.A., English Language Institute, May 13, 1985
Richard P. Scharchbury, M.A., Business Administration
Clinical Professor
Stuart W. Hamburger, M.D. Surgery, May 1, 1985
Clinical Assistant Professor
Sudharkar G. Ezhutchachan, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, March 1, 1985
Ricardo G. Hahn, M.D., Family Practice, April 1, 1985
K. P. Ravikrishnan, M.B., B.S., Internal Medicine, July 27, 1984
Clinical Instructor
Jon E. Cabot, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, June 18, 1985
Marie J. English, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 10, 1985
Brian S. Nylaan, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 10, 1985
Mary H. Parise, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1985
Jack Schwarcz, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 8, 1985
Michael J. Sharp, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 1, 1985
Richard A. Stanchina, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 3, 1985
Steven A. Sulfaro, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 6, 1985
Tammy M. Trullard-Rey, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 6, 1985
William C. Vuillemot, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 6, 1985
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Gorman L. Beauchamp, Associate Professor of Humanities, Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed Adjunct Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, May 1, 1985
Ira A. Cohen, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, May 18,
1985




JUNE MEETING, 1985


313


Richard J. Gardner, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Vikki A. Stefans, Instructor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, also appointed Instructor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 31, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Thomas F. Farrell, Mathematics
Robert P. Kirshner, Astronomy, June 30, 1985 (also held title as Chairman)
Barbara E. Kovach, Psychology, UM-Dearborm, April 30, 1985
David H. Krantz, Psychology
Associate Professor
Joyce O. Beckett, Social Work
Marian L. Majewski, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Golder N. Wilson, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1985
Assistant Professor
Shervin Erfani, Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1985
Dale H. Peterson, Mathematics
Marc C. Riske, Theatre and Drama
Shu-Chen Ho Wu, Biostatistics
Instructor
Sami R. Achem-Karam, Internal Medicine, September 30, 1984
Joseph S. Smith, Internal Medicine, March 31, 1985
Michael L. Smith, Biological Sciences, June 30, 1985
Clinical Assistant Professor
Suzanne L. Bowyer, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 15, 1985
Adjunct Lecturer
Lawrence S. Blumer, Biological Science, June 30, 1985
One off campus assignment, two sabbatical leaves, one extended sick
leave, three retirement furloughs and one disability leave were reported to
the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of twenty-two faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted:
RUSSELL E. BIDLACK, Dean of the School of Library Science, will retire from his
active duties as of June 30, 1985. He had directed the school from the time of its establishment
as a separate unit.
After completing his baccalaureate degree at Simpson College in his native state of Iowa,
Dean Bidlack took four degrees at The University of Michigan, earning the Ph. D. degree in
Library Science in 1954. He joined the Michigan faculty as a pre-doctoral instructor in what
was at that time the Department of Library Science, becoming a professor of library science in
1965 and acting chairman of the department in 1967. In 1969, following a national search, he
was named dean of the new School of Library Science.
Widely published in the field of librarianship, Dean Bidlack is an acknowledged authority
on professional accreditation in that field. He served as chair of the American Library
Association's committee on accreditation, as well as of a subcommittee charged with the
writing of the present standards for accreditation in library education. He continues to be sought
as a consultant to such programs throughout North America.
He has been honored by his colleagues with the highest awards the profession has to offer,
including the Beta Phi Mu Award for Distinguished Service to Education for Librarianship, the




314


JUNE MEETING, 1985


Melvil Dewey Medal for Recent Creative Professional Achievement of a High Order, and the
Joseph W. Lippincott Award for Notable Achievement in Librarianship.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and administrator by naming him Dean
Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Library Science.
DAVID FRANCIS BOHR, Professor of Physiology, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 1985, after a most productive career in medical research and teaching.
Professor Bohr was born in Zurich, Switzerland, on June 22, 1915. He took undergraduate
and medical studies at The University of Michigan and received his M.D. degree in 1942. From
1943 to 1946, Professor Bohr served in the U.S. Army as a laboratory officer and detachment
commander on a Dutch hospital ship. Following active duty, he became the commanding
officer of a research and development subgroup in the U.S. Army Reserve Corps and remained
in the U.S. Army Reserve until 1953.
In 1946, Professor Bohr was appointed as a research fellow in the Department of Medicine
at the University of California, San Francisco. In 1948, he moved to Ann Arbor to become an
assistant professor in the Department of Physiology at The University of Michigan and was
promoted to associate professor in 1949 and to professor in 1957. He spent two years as a
visiting professor at other institutions; from 1955-56 in the Department of Pharmacology at the
University of California, San Francisco; from 1961-62 in the Physiologische Institut at the
University of Heidelberg, Germany.
Professor Bohr received the Ciba Award from the Council for High Blood Pressure
Research of the American Heart Association in 1984. In 1977, he was awarded the Wiggers
Lectureship by the Circulation Group of the American Physiological Society for his contributions to cardiovascular physiology. In 1973, Professor Bohr received the Distinguished Faculty
Achievement Award and, in 1983, he received the Distinguished Faculty Lectureship in
Biological Research.
Professor Bohr has been a very active member of the American Physiological Society and,
in 1978, he was elected president of this society. He also served as the chairman of the
Committee on Medical Student Research for seventeen years. He spent four years (1968-72) on
the Space Science Board of the National Academy of Sciences and five years (1981-86) on a
Study Section of the Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health. He has
served on the editorial boards of five medical journals and has been an associate editor for heart
and circulatory physiology of the American Journal of Physiology since 1983.
The Regents now salute David Francis Bohr, renowned scholar and scientist, for his
contributions and service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Physiology.
CHARLES F. BRUMFIEL, Professor of Mathematics, retired from active faculty status
on May 31, 1985, after a productive career as teacher and author.
Professor Brumfiel was born in Grant County, Indiana, in 1914, and received his B.S.
degree in 1939 from Ball State Teachers College in Muncie, Indiana. He then entered the
University of Chicago where he completed his master's degree in 1944. He received his Ph.D.
degree in mathematics at Purdue University in 1954.
He taught in the Elkhart, Indiana, public schools from 1939 to 1942 after completing his
undergraduate degree. He worked as an industrial engineer at the U.S. Steel Corporation in
1944 and 1945. Upon completion of his Ph.D., he returned to his alma mater, Ball State, where
he was promoted through the ranks to professor. He remained at Ball State until he came to The
University of Michigan in 1960.
Professor Brumfiel played a major role in developing one of the better known "new
mathematics" curriculums for high schools. The textbooks that he and his collaborators wrote
were used extensively throughout the country. For this new curriculum to succeed it was
necessary to revise the teacher training courses and to organize extensive summer and academic
programs to train established teachers. As coauthor of 23 textbooks, his influence on secondary
instruction continues.
The Regents now salute Charles F. Brumfiel, dedicated educator and author, for his service
by naming him Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
WILLIAM A. COLES, Professor of English Language and Literature, retired from active
duty on May 31, 1985, after over 20 years of dedicated service.
Professor Coles is distinguished for his work as an art historian as well as for his literary
scholarship. Born in Boston, he prepared at the Boston Latin School for Harvard College, from
which he graduated magna cum laude in 1951. He received his Ph.D. degree from Harvard in




JUNE MEETING, 1985                               315
1957. He began his teaching as an instructor in English at the University of Virginia in
1956-58. He was an assistant professor of English at the University of North Carolina from
1958 until he came to The University of Michigan in 1962. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1967 and to professor in 1972.
Professor Coles' career is unusual for the extent of his expertise in two disciplines. In
literature, his scholarly interest is in the English and American literature of the nineteenth and
early twentieth centuries. In the history of art, it is in the classical tradition in the arts of the
same period. He has published articles on Romantic and Victorian writers in a variety of
journals. He organized the exhibition of the work of Alfred Stevens for the University Museum,
The Walters Gallery in Baltimore, and the Montreal Museum of Art, and published the
companion volume, Alfred Stevens. He has also written the catalogues and organized gallery
exhibitions of the work of the Boston Painters and of R. H. Ives Gammill. He is a founding
member of Classical America, a national society which gives institutional form to his interests
and to which he has dedicated a great deal of his time, specifically as the editor of its journal
and generally as an articulate advocate. At the University, his parallel interests were given a
natural outlet in the program in American Culture and in the complementary publications,
Architecture and Society: Selected Essays of Henry Van Brunt and a stimulating textbook on the
architecture of the Chicago World's Fair of 1893. This line of work continues in his edition of
Edith Wharton's The Decoration of Houses.
The Regents now salute William A. Coles, distinguished teacher and author, by naming him
Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
WILLIAM M. CRUICKSHANK, Professor of Child and Family Health in the School of
Public Health, Professor of Psychology in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
Professor of Education in the School of Education, and Director Emeritus of the Institute for the
Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities, retired from active status on May 31,
1985, after a most productive career as an administrator, teacher, and researcher.
A native of Michigan, Professor Cruickshank received his doctoral degree from The
University of Michigan in 1945. From 1942-45 he served in the Armed Forces of the United
States as a clinical psychologist. From 1945-66 he rose through the ranks to Professor of
Psychology and Education, and served as Director of the Division of Special Education and
Rehabilitation. In 1952 he was appointed Dean of Special Services and Margaret O. Slocum
Distinguished Professor of Psychology and Education at Syracuse University. Professor
Cruickshank joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as Director of the Institute for
Mental Retardation and Related Diseases in 1966.
Although Professor Cruickshank has always had a full-time appointment as an administrator, he has nevertheless taught both graduate and undergraduate courses throughout his career.
He has published widely in peer-reviewed journals (approximately 160 articles) and has
authored, coauthored, edited, or coedited more than 40 major books.
Professor Cruickshank has been active both in domestic and international developments for
children and youth with physical and mental disabilities. He has been the recipient of numerous
awards by foreign governments and domestic organizations. Twice he has been appointed
Fulbright Lecturer to the Ministries of Health Education in Peru and is the recipient of five
honorary doctoral degrees from universities in the United States and one from the Universidad
Nacional Major de San Marcos de Peru. Professor Cruickshank has served as a consultant to
approximatley 30 foreign ministries of education and has served in a similar capacity to almost
every state and provincial government in the United States and Canada. He has also served as
president of several professional associations.
In recognition of his dedication to teaching, research and higher education administration,
the Regents now salute this distinguished professional educator by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Child and Family Health, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, and Professor
Emeritus of Education.
JAMES WALKER DOWNER, Professor of English, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1985 after a distinguished career as a teacher of both undergraduate and graduate
students.
Born in Texas, Professor Downer completed his A.B. degree at Baylor University in 1936.
From 1936 to 1942, he taught English and Latin at Forney High School, and in 1941 completed
his M.A. degree at Baylor. He served as chief petty officer in the U.S. Navy from 1942 to




316


JUNE MEETING, 1985


1945. After his discharge he returned to Texas for a year as a teacher of English at the Allen
Military Academy in Bryan.
In 1947, Professor Downer began his association with The University of Michigan as a
teaching fellow in the department of English. From 1949 to 1952 he also served as an assistant
editor on the Middle English Dictionary. He became an instructor in 1951, and completed his
Ph.D. dissertation, The Pronunciation of Vowels in Lowell's Bigelow Papers, in 1958. He was
an assistant professor from 1958-62, associate professor from 1962-69 and was promoted to
professor in 1969.
Professor Downer was active in Project English, a national renewal effort of the 1960s, and
visited many Michigan high schools as an advisor. In recent years, he has conducted the Old
English reading group, an informal gathering of faculty and students, who meet to interpret and
discuss Old English texts. With two colleagues, he was also concerned with the revival of the
Early Modern English Dictionary and contributed to a publication of that effort, Michigan
Early Modern English Materials, in 1975.
He served on the executive and graduate committees of the department and chaired the
Committee on Teacher Preparation and Professional Relations from 1965 to 1967. Professor
Downer also chaired the Advisory Committee on Dictionaries from 1969 to 1974 and gave his
leadership to its successor, the Middle English Dictionary Council. Other committees of which
he was a member include the Interdepartmental Advisory Committee for Linguistics and the
Executive Committee of the English Language Institute. Currently, he is an officer of the
Schwanfelder Society, and since 1978 has served as a member of the Advisory Committee for
the Linguistic Atlas of the North Central States.
The Regents now salute James Walker Downer, distinguished educator and scholar, for his
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
RICHARD A. FLINN, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, has retired
from active faculty status as of May 31, 1985, after a long and distinguished career as a
teacher, academic researcher, and industrial researcher, engineer and consultant.
A native of New York City, Professor Flinn did his undergraduate work in chemical
engineering at the City College of New York, receiving his B.S. degree in 1936. He entered
graduate school in metallurgy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and received his
M.S. degree in 1937. From 1937 through 1939, he was employed as a research metallurgist at
the International Nickel Company Research Laboratory in New Jersey. He returned to the
Massachusetts Institute of Technogogy in 1939 and received his Ph.D. degree in 1941.
In the period 1941-51, Professor Flinn served as assistant chief metallurgist with the
American Brake Shoe Company, where he became a recognized expert in the area of foundry
metallurgy. He accepted a position as associate professor at The University of Michigan in 1951
and was promoted to professor in 1953.
During his career at The University of Michigan, Professor Flinn developed a worldrecognized reputation in the research areas of process and physical metallurgy, steelmaking,
cast metals, solidification and failure analysis. He has published approximatley 120 technical
papers in these areas, including his well-known textbook, Engineering Materials and Their
Applications. He has received many awards, including twice being named the Henry Marion
Howe Medalist of the American Society for Metals, in 1944 and 1963, and was made a fellow
of this society in 1977.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by naming
Richard A. Flinn Professor Emeritus of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering.
WILLIAM ALBERT HILTNER, Professor of Astronomy and Chairman of the Department of Astronomy, has retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1985, after a long and
rewarding career.
Born in 1914, Professor Hiltner received his B.S. degree from the University of Toledo in
1937. He received his M.S. degree in 1938, was a Rackham Fellow in 1941, and received his
Ph.D. degree in 1942 from The University of Michigan. After joining the faculty at the
University of Chicago in 1943 and working at Chicago's Yerkes Observatory and at the
McDonald Observatory in Texas, he pioneered the application of new instrumental techniques
to astrophysical problems over a wide range of topics in stellar astronomy. His work on
photoelectric photometry led to the discovery of interstellar polarization and provided the first
evidence for a magnetic field prevading our galaxy.
Through his work with the Associated Universities for Research in Astronomy, of which he




JUNE MEETING, 1985


317


was president, 1968-71, Professor Hiltner helped establish Kitt Peak, Arizona, and Cerro
Tololo, Chile, as national centers for astronomical research. He returned to Michigan in 1970
and served as chairman of the Astronomy Department until 1982. His interest in x-ray
astronomy led to cooperation with Dartmouth and M.I.T. and eventually to the development of
the McGraw-Hill Observatory in Arizona. In recent years he has been the principal investigator
for the construction of a 2.4 meter telescope for the consortium. By far the least expensive of its
size due to imaginative engineering, this telescope will be in operation by 1985.
Professor Hiltner has made substantial contributions to advanced instrumentation in photometry, polarimetry and spectrophotometry, and his 200 research publications cover a spectrum of
fields in stellar and galactic astronomy. His leadership in establishing national observatories and
his specific contributions to developing astronomy at Michigan are widely recognized.
The Regents now salute this distinguished astronomer by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Astronomy.
WARNE C. HOLCOMBE, Associate Professor of English in the Department of Humanities, has retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1985, after a most productive career as
a teacher and scholar.
Professor Holcombe earned his B.A. degree from Taylor University, Upland, Indiana, in
1941. He served in the United States Army from 1942 until 1946, rising to acting sergeant
major. He received his M.A. degree in 1947 and his Ph.D. degree in 1958 from The University
of Michigan. He began his career as a teaching fellow in English in the College of Engineering
and taught continuously for 38 years.
As a teacher, Professor Holcombe was highly regarded, both by colleagues and students,
and the individual attention he gave his students was enormous. His students respected and
appreciated his work and often sought to take more courses with him. He initiated the
department's course in the literature of utopias and taught it to many students. Partly as a result
of this interest, he has been a member of the World Future Society since 1970. For a number of
years he was a member of the Michigan Academy, the National Council of Teachers of
English, the American Association of University Professors, and the Modem Language Association.
Professor Holcombe rendered valuable service on many committees, among them the
department's Committee on Schedule for matching people to courses, Freshman English,
Curriculum, the Senior Rhetoric Course of which he was chairman for four years, Student
Affairs, and some review committees for colleagues being considered for retention, promotion
and tenure. He also served on the college's committees on Classification, Scholastic Standing,
Nominations, and Scholarship and served as assistant to the director of the University Summer
Session for five years.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Warne C. Holcombe
Associate Professor Emeritus of English.
FREDERICK WILLIAM KAHLER, JR., Professor of Dentistry, will retire from active
faculty status as of June 30, 1985, after 35 years of outstanding service in the Department of
Operative Dentistry at the School of Dentistry.
From the beginning of his career as clinical instructor in 1950 to his retirement as professor
in 1985, the imparting of knowledge and concern for students was constant in his philosophic
beliefs. In addition to his role as director of junior and senior clinics in the operative
department, he also took on the responsibility for remedial teaching and each year spent many
hours of his own time making sure that those students having difficulties received tutoring.
Importantly, his compassion was mixed with an insistence on disciplined thinking and behavior.
Born in 1921, Professor Kahler grew in up in Marshall, Michigan. He received his B.S.
degree in 1943 from Western Michigan University. Following three years of service as a
captain in the Army Air Corps during World War II, Professor Kahler entered The University
of Michigan's Dental School, where he received his D.D.S. degree in 1950 and his M.S.
degree in restorative dentistry in 1953. Professor Kahler began his teaching career at the School
of Dentistry in 1950 as a full-time clinical instructor, teaching courses in both the Crown and
Bridge Department and in operative dentistry. In 1951, he opened a part-time private practice in
Ann Arbor at the same time that he was appointed half-time instructor in the Department of
Operative Dentistry. Throughout his career, he combined teaching and private practice, using
each to enhance the other. His teaching responsibilities included classes for both graduate and
undergraduate students. In addition, he taught numerous postgraduate courses around the state,
helping to update dentists on the latest restorative techniques and materials.




318


JUNE MEETING, 1985


The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
THOMAS J. LARKIN, Professor of Art in the School of Art and Associate Professor of
Education in the School of Education, retired from active status May 31, 1985, after a most
prodigious career as teacher, ceramic sculptor, art educator and administrator.
A native of New York, Professor Larkin studied art at the School of the Art Institute of
Chicago, receiving his B.A. and M.A. degrees in art education there. Senior faculty member in
the joint certification program in art education of the School of Art and the School of
Education, Professor Larkin has served The University of Michigan since 1953 when he was
first appointed to the faculty. He is a dynamic teacher and his rapport with students is
unparalleled. An ever active committee member, he served on many committees and in many
capacities at both the department level and intra-university level, including the Committee on
the Economic Status of the Faculty and the Faculty Senate Assembly. A former chairman of the
Department of Art, Professor Larkin served in that capacity from 1970 to 1972, prior to the
creation of the School of Art as an autonomous unit.
A member of the Michigan Art Education Association for 29 years, Professor Larkin served
one term as its president. In 1982, he was named recipient of the distinguished "University Art
Education" award of the Michigan Art Education Association. His work with the association
over the years focused on in-service re-education of art teachers, and helping establish a new
curriculum for the teaching of art in public secondary schools throughout the state. Other
service activities throughout the state and community included jurying, public speaking, and
evaluation of art programs for public schools.
Professor Larkin's research included many publications, articles and lectures on art education. His exhibition record in ceramic sculpture included shows at Slusser Gallery, Eastern
Michigan University, the Detroit Institute of Art, Rackham Galleries and The University of
Michigan Museum of Art.
It is with great pride that the Regents now acknowledge the many contributions of Thomas
J. Larkin by naming him Professor Emeritus of Art and Associate Professor Emeritus of Art
Education.
JOSEPH C. MAZUR, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1985. His long association with the College of Engineering and The
University of Michigan began in the early 1950s when, after considerable industrial and
military service, he completed his B.S.E. degree in 1954 and his M.S.E. degree in 1955. He
was appointed instructor in the Production Engineering Department in 1955 and became a
member of the Mechanical Engineering Department in 1956 when the Production Engineering
Department was merged with it. He was appointed assistant professor in 1958 and associate
professor in 1966.
Professor Mazur's professional interests and activities lay in the broad areas of manufacturing, machining and producibility. He was a highly regarded teacher, a counselor and friend to
his students, and most respected by his colleagues and associates. Consultant to industry, active
and a leader in technical societies, particularly in the Society of Manufacturing Engineering, he
is a corresponding member of the International Production Engineering Research Committee
and a member of Sigma XI, Tau Beta Pi and Pi Tau Sigma.
In recent years, Professor Mazur's active research and interests were in computer-aided
manufacturing, particularly in sensing, diagnostics, and data recording and analysis. He assumed directorship of the Consortium on Research before his retirement, after having spent
much time and effort in assisting in the early development of the pioneering computerized
instrumentation and analytic system which resulted from the work and support of the consortium.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated and exemplary service
to the university and to his profession by naming him Associate Professor Emeritus of
Mechanical Engineering.
WILLIAM CHARLES MORSE, Professor of Education and Professor of Psychology,
retired from active duty on May 31, 1985, after 38 years of gifted service to The University of
Michigan.
Professor Morse was born in Erie, Pennsylvania, on October 23, 1915. He received his
B.A. degree from The University of Michigan in 1938, the M.A. degree in 1939, and the
Ph.D. degree in 1947. He was appointed instructor in educational psychology at The University
of Michigan and in 1956 attained the rank of professor. From 1945 to 1961, Professor Morse




JUNE MEETING, 1985


319


was also director of the university's Fresh Air Camp, a therapeutic summer residential camp
program for emotionally disturbed children. In 1965 he was appointed chairman of the
Combined Program in Education and Psychology, an interdepartmental unit within the Rackham School of Graduate Studies, becoming a professor of psychology in 1966.
Professor Morse is a fellow of the American Psyohological Association and the American
Orthopsychiatric Association, of which he is a past-vice president; he is also past-president of
the Michigan Psychological Association. He continues to consult regularly with public schools
in local and metropolitan areas and works actively with national, state, and local organizations
such as the Council for Exceptional Children, the Council for Children with Behavior Disorders, and the Michigan Association of Teachers of Emotionally Disturbed Children. He is
consulting editor for a number of journals in special education and related areas and a frequent
consultant for site visits, program evaluations, and research proposals for national governmental
agencies.
He has received the following honors in his career while at the University: U-M Distinguished Faculty Award (1970); American Association of Colleges of Teacher Education
Program Award (1975); William Clark Trow Distinguished Professorship (1977); Wallin Award
of the Council of Exceptional Children (1978); Distinguished Service Award of the Michigan
Association of Teachers of Emotionally Disturbed Children (1982); and the C. S. Harding Mott
Award (1982).
The Regents now salute William Charles Morse, dedicated educator and researcher, for his
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Education and Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
GEORGE W. NACE, Professor of Biological Sciences in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status as of June 30, 1985, after a 27 year
association with The University of Michigan.
Shortly after his birth in Connellsville, Pennsylvania, he moved to Japan, returning to the
United States at the age of twelve. He completed his undergraduate training at Reed College,
then joined the U.S. Navy, serving as lieutenant in the Intelligence Service. In 1946 he attended
the University of California, Los Angeles, and was awarded the Ph.D. degree in 1950.
Advanced training in the field of immuno-embryology was obtained in Brussels with the
support of a National Institutes of Health postdoctoral fellowship during 1950-51. From
1951-57, he held the title of assistant professor at Duke University.
Professor Nace joined the Department of Zoology at The University of Michigan as an
associate professor in 1957. He was promoted to professor in 1961 and held the additional title
of fellow in the Center for Human Growth and Development beginning in 1969. His fine
teaching performance was given special recognition with the Amoco Good Teaching Award in
1976.
Professor Nace's research involved the biochemistry of amphibian embryos, particularly the
wild-caught frogs, which led to theestablishment of the amphibian facility. Many important
scientific contributions in developmental biology, immunology, and genetics have emerged
from that facility. The laboratory has now been reorganized as a private company and Professor
Nace is initiating a project on the effect of gravity on embryonic development, supported by
NASA.
His fluency in Japanese provided opportunities for various scholarly exchanges with biologists in Japan and, in 1973, Professor Nace served as visiting assistant professor with the Japan
Society for the Promotion of Science.
In appreciation of Professor Nace's many contributions to the Division of Biological
Sciences and The University of Michigan through his research, teaching and service, the
Regents name him Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences.
JAMES V. NEEL, Lee R. Dice Distinguished University Professor of Human Genetics and
Professor of Internal Medicine, will retire from active faculty status as of June 30, 1985, after a
distinguished career in teaching, research and administration spanning 39 years at The University of Michigan.
Professor Neel received his Ph.D. degree in 1939 from the University of Rochester
Graduate School and his M.D. degree from the University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry in 1944. He has been a pioneer in the study of human genetics for most of his
professional life. His studies led to an understanding of the genetic etiology of sickle cell
anemia. He established and chaired the first department of human genetics in the United States,
a post he held for 25 years, and undertook to investigate the genetic consequences of the atomic




320


JUNE MEETING, 1985


bomb detonations in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. He continues his current research into the means
of detecting and measuring mutations in unexposed populations.
Professor Neel has made major contributions to clinical genetics and helped establish the
role of genetics in clinical areas such as internal medicine. He established one of the first clinics
for the evaluation, management and counseling of patients with hereditary diseases, has made
extensive contributions to our understanding of the genetics of diabetes mellitus and described
the inheritance of sickle cell anemia. His influence fostered the establishment of a division of
medical genetics in the Departments of Internal Medicine and Human Genetics.
His service to the University has been extensive and his national and international activities
are many, extensive and wide-ranging. The honors bestowed upon Professor Neel, therefore,
reflect the recognition of his many contributions. Among these he was elected president of the
American Society of Human Genetics in 1953, received the Lasker Award in 1960, was elected
to the National Academy of Sciences in 1963, received the Allen Award from the American
Society of Human Genetics in 1965, was appointed Lee R. Dice University Professor of Human
Genetics and received the Russel Award from the University in 1966, received the National
Medal of Science in 1975, was elected president of the Sixth International Congress of Genetics
held in 1981, received the Smithsonian Institution Medal in 1981, and received the Wadsworth
Distinguished Service Award from the New York State Department of Health in 1982. In 1984,
he received the Michigan Scientist-of-the-Year Award from the Michigan State Legislature.
The Regents now salute James V. Neel, renowned scholar and scientist, for his contributions and service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and Professor Emeritus
of Internal Medicine.
WARREN G. PALMER, Associate Professor of Education and Associate Professor of
Library Science, retired from active duty on May 31, 1985. In his fifteen years of service at
The University of Michigan, he contributed his skills and expertise in educational media.
Professor Palmer received his A.B. degree in 1948 from Howard University in Washington,
D.C., the M.S.L.S. in 1956 from Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia, and the Ed.D. in
1968 from Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana. His early successful educational
experience at Fort Valley State College, where he served as chairperson of the Division of
Education, preceded his arrival to the Ann Arbor campus in 1970. At that time, he was
appointed associate professor and director of the Office of Educational Communication/Media
in the School of Education.
Professor Palmer contributed greatly to the educational experience of students and faculty at
The University of Michigan and was instrumental in defining and developing the educational
media center in the School of Education. His beginning efforts, influence and impact are still
observed in the current micro computer based instructional strategies service that serves the
School of Education and the University at large.
He represented The University of Michigan very well through teaching, research and service
on many local, state and national committees and boards. Professor Palmer had a special
interest in the success of minority students in general and, specifically, those at The University
of Michigan. A considerable amount of his research effort was directed toward cultural
diversity and the education of black students whose roots were in the southern United States.
The Regents now salute Warren G. Palmer, dedicated educator and researcher, for his
service by naming him Associate Professor Emeritus of Education and Associate Professor
Emeritus of Library Science.
S. GLEN PAULSEN, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, retired
from active faculty status effective May 31, 1985.
Professor Paulsen earned his B. Arch. degree in 1947 from the University of Pennsylvania.
In 1948 he earned a Diploma in Architecture and City Planning from the Royal Academy of
Arts in Stockholm, Sweden.
Following a decade in the office of Eero Saarinen Associates, Professor Paulsen joined the
faculty at The University of Michigan in 1958. In 1965, he resigned to accept appointment as
president of Cranbrook Academy of Art and head of the graduate program in architecture. In
1975, he returned to teach at Michigan.
Professor Paulsen earned national recognition as an architect. For more than thirty years he
has either conducted his own practice or been a member of a distinguished firm. His buildings
have been accorded many design awards and, in 1970, his achievements in practice and
education were recognized by his elevation to fellow in the American Institute of Architects.




JUNE MEETING, 1985                                 321
As a design instructor, Professor Paulsen had few peers. He was quiet and constructive in
his criticism of student work and he never imposed his own solution to the problem. He thus
had that rare ability to draw out of the student whatever design potential might be there.
Architecture students have appreciated his approach, recognizing the opportunity for personal
growth and development. In 1981, he was presented the Sol King Award for Excellent
Teaching in Architecture. A year later, the Regents appointed him the Emil Lorch Professor of
Architecture and Urban Planning.
For his many contributions to the University and the people of Michigan, the Regents now
salute S. Glen Paulsen, distinguished architect and teacher, by naming him Emil Lorch
Professor Emeritus of Architecture and Urban Planning.
STEPHEN B. PRESTON, Professor of Natural Resources, retired from active faculty
status on April 30, 1985, after a productive career as an administrator, teacher and researcher.
Professor Preston earned his B.S. and M.F. (Forest Management) degrees from Colorado
State University in 1946 and 1947, respectively, and his M.F. (Wood Technology) degree
(1948) and Doctorate of Forestry (1951) from Yale University. He joined the faculty of the
School of Natural Resources of The University of Michigan in 1950. His administrative
responsibilities included twelve years as chairman of the Departments of Wood Science and
Technology and Resource Planning and Conservation, several years as acting dean and fourteen
years as associate dean.
Professor Preston served as the executive director of the Organization for Tropical Studies,
June 1965-December 1968. The organization is a consortium of 27 educational and research
institutions, including the University of Costa Rica and the Instituto Interamericano de Ciancias
Agricolas. Under his leadership, the organization obtained major grants for education and
research. He has also served as consortium vice president.
Professor Preston is a member of the Society of American Foresters and has held the
following appointments: chairman, Division of Wood Utilization, 1956; Forest Products Research Society, chairman, Great Lakes Section, 1955; chairman, Wood Drying Division, 1959;
chairman, Anatomy and Fundamental Properties Division, 1962, and executive board member
from 1969. Active in the Society of Wood Science and Technology, he was its president in
1950-60, 1962-63. He has also served on the National Research Council's Committee on
Renewable Resources for Industrial Materials.
Professor Preston was recently on a scholarly activity leave in Rome with the Office of the
Assistant Director General. During this time, he assisted the policy and planning service of the
Forestry Department in carrying out an evaluation of its new development strategy; developed
proposals for translating the development strategy into resource management criteria and other
operational measures; assisted in the preparation of a paper on this subject for presentation at
the seventh session of the Committee on Forestry; and reviewed the existing Action Programs
on Forestry for Local Community Development and Forestry for Rural Energy.
The Regents now salute Stephen B. Preston for his dedicated service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Associate Dean Emeritus.
JAMES WALLACE REESE, D.D.S., M.S., retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1984, after a long and productive association with The University of Michigan.
Born in Detroit on July 2, 1928, Professor Reese graduated from Royal Oak High School in
1946, the same year he entered The University of Michigan's College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts. In 1949, he began his studies at the School of Dentistry, earning his D.D.S.
degree in 1953. He served with the United States Naval Reserve as dental officer, lieutenant
(JG), from 1953 to 1955, and was stationed in the U.S., Korea, and Japan. Returning to Ann
Arbor in 1955, Dr. Reese began his teaching career with the School of Dentistry as an
instructor in the partial denture department, and later, in periodontics.
In 1959, Professor Reese earned his M.S. degree in orthodontics and moved to San
Francisco, where he established a private orthodontics practice. While there, he also served as a
consultant to the San Francisco Crippled Children's Service.
Professor Reese assumed his position as assistant professor in the Department of Orthodontics on September 1, 1964. Over the next twenty years, he distinguished himself as a dedicated
and thorough teacher, as well as an outstanding clinical orthodontist. In addition to devoting
time to teaching and a private practice, he also became actively involved in a number of
professional organizations. At various times throughout his career, he served as president of the
Michigan Society of Orthodontists, trustee and delegate of the Michigan Dental Association,




322


JUNE MEETING, 1985


diplomat of the American Board of Orthodontics, and on committees of the Great Lakes Society
of Orthodontists.
The Regents now salute James Wallace Reese, distinguished health educator, for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
ERNST J. SIEGENTHALER, Associate Professor of Environmental Health in the School
of Public Health, has retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1985, after a productive
career as a teacher, public servant and researcher.
A native of Zurich, Switzerland, and a naturalized citizen of the United States, he received
his baccalaureate degree from the College Juventus, Zurich, in 1948. In 1952 Professor
Siegenthaler received the Ingenieur Agronom degree and a doctoral degree in Scientific
Technology in Food Science in 1965 from the Institut of Technology in Zurich. He also
completed additional studies in 1953-54 at Iowa State University in the Department of Dairy
Industry.
In 1954 Professor Siegenthaler was appointed as an officer with the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations completing assignments in Nepal, Guatemala, and Jordan.
Between the years 1960-65 he conducted bacterial research and consulted for the Swiss Federal
Institute of Dairy Research in Berne, Switzerland. He accepted a research associate position in
the Food Science Department at Cornell University in 1965. Professor Siegenthaler came to The
University of Michigan in 1967 as assistant professor in the Department of Environmental
Health and was promoted to associate professor in 1971. He joined the Program in Human
Nutrition in 1975, and continued his service, teaching, and research activities.
Throughout his career, Professor Siegenthaler has served as a consultant and advisor to
governments in the field of agriculture development, food handling and processing, and has
participated in the planning and establishment of milk collecting centers and cheese factories.
He has also lectured extensively in the area of food sanitation. Professor Siegenthaler is
respected by associates for his valuable contributions to several research projects, especially in
the field of food and dairy microbiology. Furthermore, he is one of the few experienced
specialists in the world for dairy development in countries of the Third World. His international
service activities, which span three decades, include advising and lecturing at the University of
Nairobi, University of Papua, New Guinea, and consulting and lecturing for the Swiss government in Peru in 1976-75 and in Kenya in 1975-76.
In recognition of his dedication to teaching and service activities the Regents name Ernst J.
Siegenthaler Associate Professor Emeritus of Environmental Health.
HADLEY J. SMITH, Professor of Applied Mechanics, retired from active faculty status as
of May 31, 1985, culminating a thirty-three year association with The University of Michigan.
Professor Smith graduated with a B.S. degree in mechanical engineering from The University of Michigan in 1940. He then joined the Detroit Edison Company as a research engineer.
With the outbreak of the second world war, he served as a captain in the United States Army
from 1941 until 1946. From 1946 until 1951 he was a product engineer with Commercial
Research Laboratories of Detroit, Michigan. From 1952 to 1955 he was a research engineer
with The University of Michigan Research Institute. In 1953 he earned an M.S. degree in
physics from the University of Detroit. From 1955 to 1957 he was an instructor in the
Department of Engineering Mechanics. In 1957 he received a Ph.D. degree in engineering
mechanics from the University of Michigan and he joined the faculty as an assistant professor.
He was promoted to associate professor in 1959 and to professor in 1962.
Professor Smith's technical interests are in the areas of fluid flow and heat transfer. He has
contributed to those fields through publications in scholarly journals, summer employment at
Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, and consulting with industry. He has also served as a
reviewer for major journals in his field and for the National Science Foundation.
Professor Smith has always had a strong interest in teaching, student development and
curriculum matters. He has been chairman of the college curriculum committee, has served in
the scholastic standing committee, and was program advisor for the engineering mathematics
program. In recent years, he has made significant contributions to the evolution of computer
courses at the freshman and sophomore levels in the College of Engineering.
The Regents now salute Hadley J. Smith, distinguished educator, for his dedicated service
by naming him Professor Emeritus of Applied Mechanics.




JUNE MEETING, 1985


323


BRUCE EDWARD VANDERMADE, D.D.S., M.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry in
the Department of Partial Denture, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1984,
after serving 26 years on the faculty of The University of Michigan.
Born November 21, 1921, in Petoskey, Michigan, Professor Vandermade graduated from
high school in Buffalo, New York, in 1939. A year later he entered The University of Michigan
for his undergraduate college training. World War II intervened and from 1943 to 1945 he
served as a B-24 pilot in the 15th Air Force in Europe, receiving the Air Medal for service.
Following discharge after V-E Day, he spent a year at Bay City Junior College before enrolling
in The University of Michigan School of Dentistry in 1946.
Professor Vandermade joined The University of Michigan staff as clinical instructor in the
Fall of 1950, having received the D.D.S. degree that spring. At the same time, he opened a
part-time private practice in Ann Arbor which he maintained throughout his teaching career.
From 1955 to 1962, he devoted himself solely to his private practice. He returned to part-time
teaching at the school as instructor in 1962 while pursuing graduate study. He earned the M.S.
degree in denture prosthesis in 1967 and was appointed assistant professor in 1968. From 1978
to 1980, he held the additional title of assistant research scientist in the Department of Dental
Materials where he participated in a research project on partial denture retentive clasps.
Professor Vandermade has played a part in organized dentistry for many years and holds
membership in the American Dental Association, the Michigan Dental Association, the Washtenaw
District Dental Society, the American Association for Dental Research, and Omicron Kappa
Upsilon dental honor society. In addition, he served as consultant to the Delta Dental Plan of
Michigan. The Regents now salute Bruce Edward Vandermade, distinguished health educator,
for his dedicated service by naming him Assistant Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
VII. MEMORIALS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) December 21, 1984
add: Roland George Rahl, with Honors
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the May 1985 Commencement exercises.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard comments from the following individual on the
topic indicated: Charles Tackett, Ann Arbor citizen, on a proposal to help
better government.
The meeting was recessed.
Friday, June 21, 1985
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim          Vice President
Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro reconvened the meeting and asked Vice President
Kennedy to comment upon the status of the state appropriations with respect
to the higher education budget.




324


JUNE MEETING, 1985


1985-86 Budget
Vice President Kennedy indicated that both the House of Representatives
and the Senate have acted upon a higher education appropriation bill. The
two bills differ in that the base operating level in the House bill would
increase the University's Ann Arbor campus appropriation by approximately
$14.1 million, the research excellence fund would provide about $9.9 million for special programs. The House bill also contains a process whereby a
special panel for the research excellence fund would review proposals from
institutions before making specific allocations.
The Senate bill's base increase for operations is approximately $16.3
million, and the research excellence fund would provide $10.8 million. The
base increase allocation in the Senate bill, however, was largely derived
from an increase in "a tuition stabilization fund," of approximately 3% of
the base appropriation. The House allowed 2% for the stabilization fund.
The intent of the Senate committee was to provide additional funding to help
minimize tuition increases at the institutions. Both bills had about a 5%
across-the-board increase for all institutions for inflation.
The overall difference between the two bills is about $10 million for
higher education in general which is over the governor's target figure.
The target figures are the major issues that will need to be resolved in
the conference process, along with the financial aid funds and research
excellence funds.
The Senate threatened to adjourn until fall, but they have now agreed to
go back into session next week so that the conference committees can
attempt to resolve their differences and come to a conclusion very early in
July. If that occurs, the University would be in a position to develop a
budget for the coming fiscal year.
Vice President Frye briefly reviewed the various options that have been
considered for the 1985-86 budget. In order to assess the minimum reasonable expenditure requirements to at least arrest further erosion in the general
fund and the programs it supports, several options were proposed with
respect to tuition and salary programs. He indicated that approximately $28
million in new revenue above that which can be obtained through internal
reallocation would be needed. At the most, any version of the state appropriation would generate about $16 million. Consequently there will be a
residual need of about $12-$13 million which would have to be generated
principally through student fee increases.
He reminded the Board that any increments in expenditure and tuition
numbers are exclusive of the proposed new initiatives in student computing
fees. These will be presented to the Board as a separate item.
Vice President Frye then spoke of the University's peer institutions, both
public and private, and what they are projecting in terms of the tuition issue.
Regent Baker asked that an estimate of the cost of implementing the
computing program be provided with respect to equipment, changing curriculum, materials needed, and the way in which classes will be taught. He
indicated that there will be some very substantial costs of the equipment
itself. Other costs involved would be difficult to assess because many of
them would be absorbed in the effort of the faculty and students.




JUNE MEETING, 1985


325


Department of Population Planning and International Health
President Shapiro then introduced Dean June Osborn, School of Public
Health, to review the proposal to establish a department of population
planning and international health.
Dean Osborn indicated that several models were considered before arriving at the recommended proposal. The inclusion of the international health
field in the department would enable the school to attract a substantial
number of initiatives from various national and international agencies. There
are many faculty in the school who are involved in matters of international
health, and there is a collegiality between the population planning and
international health faculties.
Dean Osborn said that the combination of fields would add strength to
the department, and the only addition to the faculty would be one senior
member which had been agreed upon before this proposal was derived. The
new department also would allow for better recruitment which was difficult
to do for a non-department.
Regent Baker said that reference had been made to a former discussion
when the department was closed, and that these discussions had been
reviewed. He indicated that he would need persuasive arguments in order for
the University to re-establish structures that had been dismantled. He would
like to review the arguments that existed when closure was recommended to
determine what was so different that the Regents should go forward with the
present recommendation.
Dean Osborn commented that the recommendation is the result of a year
of careful consideration to make certain that the school was not undoing
what had been done, and that it looks at the optimal way to deploy the
school's resources in 1985. The proposal was not only different, but has a
potential for evolution that would make it even more different as the
department grows. The committee then looked at ways in which to broaden
the activity to make it academically more viable, and with more potential for
growth than population planning alone would have. After consideration of a
few models, the final decision was to merge the international health activity
with the population planning group, and was approved by the faculty
involved in the two areas. This would allow the mental and child health
group to integrate into the Department of Health Planning Administration,
which otherwise would have been substantially weakened.
Dean Osborn indicated that it was her understanding that the quality of
the program was among the criticisms of the department several years ago.
Since then, she has been assured that there has been a tremendous turnaround in quality, and the present population planning group has the respect
of persons outside the University as well as internal support.
In response to a question from Regent Varner, Vice President Sussman
indicated that a committee from the graduate school also reviewed the
proposal. Their assessment was that in contrast to the past performance in
research generated and in the proportion of people doing research, the
population planning program had improved considerably and its quality was
such that it would be able to stand on its own.
Dean Osborn observed that, in her view, the decrease in funding for




326


JUNE MEETING, 1985


population activities is temporary. The awareness of dealing with population
matters in a rational way and with good academic input is likely to increase
rapidly over the next decades. She mentioned the Chinese approach to their
population problem as an example and all of the social rigors associated with
it.
Regent Roach commented that the arguments that have been presented in
favor of creating a department are basically the same arguments that were
presented 8 years ago against discontinuance, but times have changed and
apparently funding and qualitative matters have changed, and the executive
committee now perceives these arguments to be persuasive to recreate the
department.
Dean Osborn said that a departmental structure is a very strong and
useful academic structure on which to build interdisciplinary and innovative
programs and a strong stabilizing force.
Regent Baker remarked that the closing of the department was a very
difficult undertaking. It was emotionally injurious and traumatic to the
people involved and to the Board and students. Each discontinuance was
proposed on the basis of economic necessity as well as quality. He said that
he was concerned although it has been reviewed in depth. He asked that the
arguments be addressed in a succinct written form to permit better judgment
in deciding this case, and for an explanation of the administration's point of
view in recommending the change.
Vice President Frye said that although he was not involved in the
discontinuance action and that economics might have been a factor, it was
his understanding that the principal consideration was the department's
inability to maintain quality standards. The department which is being
recommended at this time is a different organization. It has been strengthened and put together in such a way that will be advantageous to the school
of public health; the performance of the faculty and their associates have
changed and improved; resources and opportunities have developed; and
there is no perception that the creation of the department has any cost
implications that would not be incurred in any case under the present
organization. The basic argument is that faculty performance would be
enhanced by giving them departmental status.
The executive officers had the same concerns with respect to establishing
a department that had been closed, but there is no reason to believe that this
will set a pattern for the future. The University ought always to have the
flexibility to examine proposals for a new organization and if they happen to
be in some cases partial facsimilies of what was in the past, that is
coincidental rather than a reversal of decisions that had been made. Vice
President Frye indicated that he did not foresee any other closures surfacing
in the same manner. In the event this should happen, the case for establishment would have to be a compelling one before the University would
support it.
Regent Power indicated that she had reviewed the material that led to the
discontinuance several years ago. She believed that the economic issues and
the former factors related to the action have been adequately addressed.
Dean Osborn and her colleagues are attempting to bring the University into a




JUNE MEETING, 1985


327


key health area, the international health arena. Regent Power said she
supports the proposal.
Regent Waters commented that he had the same reservations as Regent
Baker. A considerable amount of time was spent considering the academic
quality and fiscal viability of the department when closure was recommended. The current document seems to indicate that progress and quality
would be hampered by non-department status.
In Regent Roach's view, the factors that led to discontinuance were
diminishing support by the federal government for schools of public health,
and erosion of foundation grants for population planning. There were insufficient general fund monies to adequately support the department. Before
final decision on the recommendation of the dean and executive committee
took place, the Regents requested that guidelines for program discontinuance
be developed. After the guidelines were adopted, the school followed the
guidelines and the population planning department was closed. A population
planning program was then developed.
President Shapiro commented that since this was an important decision,
he recommended that the item be deferred so that further information could
be provided to the Regents as requested.
Intellectual Properties
Vice President Sussman introduced the discussion on intellectual property. He indicated that the office was an important adjunct to enhance
technology transfer at the University and within the state. He said that the
University owns all intellectual properties of the faculty, as do peer institutions, with the exception of Stanford and Wisconsin. At The University of
Michigan most of the research is derived from federal funds, and some with
private funds from foundations. The royalty sharing policy of the University, which was recently changed, gives the inventor greater financial recognition and incentive.
The University of Michigan, in cooperation with other major universities
in the state, and with the leadership of Michigan State University, recently
successfully advocated modifications of the state conflict of interest statue so
that business and research contracts between the state colleges and universities and their researchers can be more easily facilitated. This major step
should significiantly enhance beneficial entreprenurial activity by faculty
and staff of the universities.
Mr. James Dautremont and Mr. Robert Gavin, attorneys for the Intellectual Properties Office, reviewed the history and organizational structure of
the office. They indicated that the main activities of the office center around
contractual arrangements directed to the protection of the academic and
commercial interests of the University and its employees concerning intellectual property developed at the University. Some of the activities of the
office include: providing legal counseling to administrators, staff and faculty; negotiating appropriate intellectual property and publications clauses
for research grants and contracts; making suitable secrecy and non-disclosure
arrangements with potential commercial marketers of University-owned intellectual properties; negotiating and implementing detailed licensing arrangements; participating in the prosecution of patent applications in the




328


JUNE MEETING, 1985


U.S. patent office; and conducting sessions to educate University personnel
on such topics as copyright law, patent law, trade secret concepts and the
policies and procedures of the Intellectual Property Office. Mr. Gavin
described some of the inventions and some of the specific research that has
taken place at the University.
Michigan Research Corporation
Included in the discussion that followed was the relationship between the
Michigan Research Corporation (MRC) and the intellectual properties office
and the restraints which have been placed on the development of research.
Temporary Expenditure Authorization, 1985-86
Regent Baker moved to approve the temporary actions for expenditures
in 1985-86. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Auditor General Report, Dearborn Campus
Regent Power moved to accept the Auditor General report of the Dearborn campus and to approve the responses. Regent Waters seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
University Bank Account
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the request to arrange for a University
bank account, and the subsequent closing thereof, in Frankfurt, Federal
Republic of Germany, to facilitate installment payments in Deutschemarks
for the purchase of one Dornier Kidney Lithotripter from Dornier System
GmbH, Friedrichshafen, West Germany. Regent Roach seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Real Property
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request for an easement over
property owned by the University for the construction and maintenance of a
water main.
Regent Baker inquired about the size of easement. He indicated that
most easements require no more than 8 feet.
Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated that he did not know why they
needed such a wide easement, but since the site was not suitable for
construction, it did not present a problem for the University.
Regent Nielsen questioned an article in the agreement. Basically, the
agreement holds the city harmless for any damage done to the buildings or
structures, etc. due to underlying water mains. He said that if the University
does not maintain or control the public utilities system, why is the University holding the city harmless?
Regent Roach commented that he agreed with Regent Nielsen, and in his
view, article 4 of the agreement should be omitted.
Regent Nielsen then moved authorization granting execution of the
easement subject to deletion of article 4.
President Shapiro indicated that since there is also the question of the
size of the easement, the item should be deferred until the two questions
have been resolved.




JUNE MEETING, 1985


329


ICLE Building
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request for a new building for
the Institute of Continuing Legal Education. He indicated that two sites had
been identified for the relocation of ICLE. The request includes authorization to appoint Hobbs and Black as the architect to develop the preliminary
plans. A separate building would allow the institute to vacate Hutchins Hall
and to consolidate their activities which are now in three different locations.
The project would be financed from the institute's Income.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Vice President Brinkerhoff
said that the Kalmbach Center was considered, but was rejected because the
facility was larger than needed and in the wrong location for their base
activities.
Regent Roach commented that this institute was a joint venture between
the University of Michigan, the State Bar of Michigan, Wayne State University and Cooley College. The funds that they will expend on the new facility
will not be University funds. The only thing the University might do is
provide the site.
Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that the University also would provide
the financing capability. The University would likely arrange for the borrowing of funds which would be in the name of the University of Michigan
because the University has the financial responsibility to the consortium for
the operation of activities. The debt service, however, on the loan would be
repayable from ICLE funds.
There was further discussion concerning the appropriateness of restructuring the institute so that it would qualify under the Regents' Bylaws, and
the legal matters and the relationship to the University that would have to be
clarified before undertaking any financial interrelationship.
President Shapiro indicated his concern for the State Street site. He was
not convinced that this would be an appropriate location. He said that there
would be further studies before a location is approved.
Regent Brown then moved to approve the project, assign either Site A or
B, as determined following further study by the architect and planning staff,
and appoint the firm of Hobbs and Black to develop preliminary plans.
Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations
Regent Power moved to approve the resurfacing of the parking lots and
roadway at UM-Dearborm; the air conditioning of the microcomputer classrooms at UM-Dearborn; interior painting of the original building at UMDearborn; and renovations at the Michigan Union. Regent Smith seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Varner moved to approve the general campus renovation project
at The University of Michigan-Dearborn and appoint Sims Varner and
Associates, Inc., Detroit, Michigan, as the architectural firm for the project
and that the recommendation be transmitted to the Department of Management and Budget. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve the award of a construction contract for
Pneumatic Tube System replacement in Mott Children's Hospital, to the




330


JUNE MEETING, 1985


Lamson Corporation, Syracuse, New York. Regent Power seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nielsen moved to approve a project to renovate the kitchens in
Mott Children's Hospital, the Kellogg Eye Center and the Children's Psychiatric Hospital, in order to extend the Adult General Hospital's cook/chill
rethermalization system into those facilities, and authorize solicitation of
construction bids. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power moved to approve the incinerator project, and authorize
the receipt of construction and equipment bids, and to approve the award of
a construction contract for the first phase of the project, the installation of
the stack, to the qualified low bidder if the low bidder is below the budget of
$373,000. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
X. OTHER
Center for the Study of Higher Education Name Change
Regent Power moved to approve the change of name of the Center for
the Study of Higher Education to the Center for the Study of Higher and
Postsecondary Education. Regent Vamer seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Department of Physics and Astronomy Name Change
Regent Nielsen moved to authorize the change of the name of the
Department of Physics and Astronomy to the Department of Physics/
Engineering Science, and incorporation of existing Engineering Science
programs and faculty in the consolidated department. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted.
UM-Flint Role and Mission Statement
The Regents received a report which reviews and updates the institutional role and mission statement for the University of Michigan-Flint.
WFUM-TV Community Advisory Board Report
A report from the Community Advisory Board for WFUM-TV station in
Flint was received by the Regents.
Medical Staff Membership Appointments
The Regents approved the recommendation for appointments to medical
staff membership.
Real Property
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, and adopted,
the sale of a parcel of land in Flint, Michigan was approved.
Replacement Hospital Project Bond Issue
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request by the Department of
Management and Budget to impute a proportionate share of the interest
expense of the bond issue of the State Building Authority for the Replacement Hospital Project in the Medicare and Medicaid cost reports. He said
this seems to be an appropriate request. There are a number of obligations




JUNE MEETING, 1985


331


on the part of the Department of Management and Budget to review the
matter with the appropriate parties involved. To the extent that additional
recovery were to occur as a result of these reviews, this would be transmitted to the state to help offset their expenses on the rental expenses under the
basic lease agreement.
Regent Baker asked if there was an imputed obligation beyond the
request. Vice President Brinkerhoff responded that the memorandum of
understanding holds the University free and clear of any liabilities. Regent
Baker indicated that the minutes should reflect that understanding.
Regent Roach commented that if it is something by which a benefit can
flow to the state, it would seem appropriate for the University to cooperate
with the state.
Regent Baker then moved to concur with the request to impute a
proportionate share of the interest expense of the bond issue of the State
Building Authority for the Replacement Hospital Project in the Medicare
and Medicaid cost reports, with the understanding that there would be no
liability on the part of the Board of Regents. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Replacement Hospital Project Contract Awards
Regent Varner moved to approve the award of contracts for the following components of Proposal Package #C7, Data and Local Area Network
to: Patient Care Network (PCN) to Interactive Systems/3M Company, St.
Paul, Minnesota; Local Area Network (LAN) to Clover Electronics, Inc.,
Detroit, Michigan; Point to Point Broadband Modems, to University of
Michigan Computing Center; Port Protection System to Wallcomm Industries, Inc., Troy, Michigan; Leased Line Transmission System to Arc Electronic Associates, Westlake, Ohio; Network Test and Control Equipment to
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California; Extend PCN into Existing
Buildings to Interactive Systems/3M Company, St. Paul, Minnesota; and
Extend LAN into Existing Buildings to Clover Electronics, Inc., Detroit,
Michigan. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Varner moved to approve award of contracts for RHP, Adult
General Hospital (AGH) and Ambulatory Care Facility (ACF) Projects,
Communications Systems, Proposal Package #C5, AGH/ACF Messaging to
Telewriter-Transmitters, and proposal package #C5B, Telewriter-Receivers,
to Infolink Corporation, Los Angeles, California; for proposal package
#C5C, TDD/TTY, to Vanpelt & Associates, Ypsilanti, Michigan; for proposal package #C5D, Facsimile Readers/Printers, to NEC America, Melville New York; and for proposal package #C5F, Multi-Channel Recorder,
to Dictaphone Corporation, Rye, New York. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Varner moved to approve the award of contract for the Receivers
portion of proposal package #C4R, Central Dictation, to Motorola Communications and Electronics, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois, and negate the previous award for same to Multi-Comm, Inc. Livonia, Michigan and Medtronex,
Inc., Bridgeview, Illinois. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.




332


JUNE MEETING, 1985


"College Students and Job Sharing" Proposal
Regent Roach noted that he had distributed to the Board a proposed
resolution supporting a Civil Service Commission proposal to create parttime jobs for college students on Thursday. He said that he wanted his
colleagues to have an opportunity to review it before he introduced the
resolution. If they are comfortable with it, he would introduce the resolution
at this time.
Regent Baker indicated that he did not think his position would change if
the proposal was held over. He would have no objection to having the
subject introduced at this time.
The proposal was received through the mail from the Department of
Civil Service and was intitiated by Commissioner John F. Dodge, Jr.. In its
simplest form it basically encourages the civil service commission to take
some state jobs and allow them to be filled by college students on a
part-time basis. The college students would then earn the full amount of pay
for the job, but not the fringe benefits and the state would pick up the
additional burden of administering part-time employment compared to fulltime employment.
It would provide a significant opportunity for college students to earn
their way through school, which is very difficult today for middle income
and low middle income students. It has been requested that in order to
induce the Civil Service Commission to seriously consider and implement
this that it would be appropriate for our board, whose students would
benefit, to support the proposal. Accordingly, Regent Roach said that he had
prepared the following resolution which he would move for approval at this
time:
RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF PROPOSAL ENTITLED
COLLEGE STUDENTS AND JOB SHARING
WHEREAS, the cost of attending state colleges and universities in the state of Michigan,
and The University of Michigan in particular, is among the highest in the nation; and
WHEREAS, it has been the constant philosophy of The University of Michigan to provide
the opportunity for all students who are properly motivated and academically qualified to
receive the highest quality university education, without regard to their ability to pay; and
WHEREAS, the declining federal and state resources have created a substantial unmet need
for financial aid to students, particularly those from middle income families; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan have reviewed the proposal of
Commissioner John F. Dodge, Jr. to provide part-time state jobs to college students to enable
them to pay for a substantial part of the cost of their education;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Regents of The University of Michigan
support the proposal entitled College Students and Job Sharing and Urge the Civil Service
Commission to adopt and implement such proposal.
FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this resolution be transmitted to the Civil Service
Commission.
Regent Nielsen seconded the motion.
Regent Baker remarked that there was some resistance to this idea at the
state level. He asked for an explanation of the nature of that resistance.
Regent Roach indicated that he was not aware of any resistance at the
state level. Certain questions have been raised, such as: will this create some
form  of antipathy between permanent full-time employees and part-time
employees.




JUNE MEETING, 1985


333


Commissioner Dodge's response was that it would be done by the
attrition process and nobody's present job would be threatened. There was
some concern expressed by Harvey Grotrian, Director of Financial Aid,
concerning the cost of implementation. The administration of permanent
part-time help as compared to full-time help really would be a matter for the
commission to consider. Perhaps the savings of 34% in fringe benefits
would more than outweigh that. Regent Roach commented that he was not
aware of any substantial opposition to the proposal.
In response to an inquiry by Regent Baker, Regent Roach said that it
was his understanding that these jobs would be in state agencies which are
now governed by the Michigan Civil Service Commission. The impact may
be greater at the Dearborn and Flint campuses than in Ann Arbor, although
there are some state agencies in Ann Arbor. Certainly East Lansing may be
the biggest beneficiary because they are in the capital area. Regent Roach
felt that anything the University can do to help provide jobs, meaningful
jobs, at good wages to the students would become a strong, direct benefit to
this University.
Regent Baker said that he did not believe in putting The University of
Michigan on record supporting resolutions except in extreme cases. He
opposes the idea of lending the University's name to ideas that were not
sponsored by the University. He does not oppose providing opportunites for
young people to work, especially students, but he opposes the idea of
resolutions in general, and he would vote against this resolution on that
basis.
President Shapiro then called for the vote. The motion was adopted with
Regent Baker voting no.
The above transactions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month of May
totaled $4,676.43.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned to meet
again on August 1 and 2, 1985.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




AUGUST MEETING, 1985
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, August 1, 1985
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Vamer and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and Jones, and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Johnson, Cosovich, Interim Vice President
Sussman, and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro opened the meeting and indicated a change in the
order of business, if agreeable to the Board. The discussion would commence with the establishment of the Department of Population Planning and
International Health, in the School of Public Health, and would be followed
by the faculty appointments and tenure proposals in the Medical School. The
budget items will be reviewed at 2:00 P.M.
Establishment of Department of Population Planning and International
Health
Vice President Frye commented that the administration is recommending
the establishment of the aforementioned department. The item was introduced at the June meeting of the Board, and, at that time, the Regents asked
for further assessment of the nature of the changes and conditions that would
reverse an action that was taken a number of years ago. He indicated that he
hoped the rewriting would make it easier to compare the conditions at the
time of closure and the present recommendation.
Dean Osborn responded to some of the salient points of the proposal.
She indicated that she discovered upon arrival on campus that a very
productive group of faculty felt that their current departmental tenure homes
were not directly aligned with their principal area of academic productivity
and interest, and, in their view, created a conflict in loyalty. The death of a
senior faculty member made it possible to recruit a person at the same level
in international health which would strengthen that area in the School of
Public Health. It became difficult to know how to proceed with that appointment when there was no international health identification.
A series of options was analyzed with respect to regularizing some of
these faculty status questions, and it was decided that the best way to utilize
existing resources within the School of Public Health would be to create a
Department of Population Planning and International Health. This would
broaden the base of the population planning group's interest and give the
school an identifiable focus of interest in international health which is
currently scattered throughout the school. Because of the unidentifiable
aspect of international health, the school felt that opportunities were missed
in terms of research and funding programs.
Following external and internal consultation, the proposal as presented
was prepared. Outside advice suggested that the quality of the faculty in the
population planning component was very high, and that there had been a
334




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


335


remarkable reversal of many of the issues that were relevant several years
ago. A departmental structure would regularize the circumstances for the
faculty inolved in population planning, would involve some internal shifting
within the school's faculty, but would not involve any increase in University
resources. It will give the school an enhanced opportunity to apply for the
growing external resources in areas of population and international health,
and structurally strengthen the school.
Regent Baker indicated that, in his view, the argument that there would
not be any additional costs was not persuasive because these proposals
always do add to the cost. He asked if the school expected to hire additional
faculty.
Dean Osborn responded that the one position would be a replacement for
an existing position which is already budgeted at a senior level. Additional
positions would be dependent upon additional research resources. The school
does not contemplate adding extensive additional faculty, and in fact, the
proposed department would make better use of existing resources. The basic
motivation for this change was to try to take people who currently have
grown as much as the structure will allow and put them into a more
regularized academic position.
In continuing, Dean Osborn observed that since there are multiple
departments in the School of Public Health, there is the opportunity for
multiple appointments. Many of the existing faculty who would become a
part of this department have joint appointments, and, where reasonable and
valid, they would have the option to maintain those appointments. A few of
the joint arrangements were made because the faculty members needed a
departmental home for tenure purposes; therefore the existing group of
faculty most likely will exercise a variety of options from sole membership
in the new department to retaining some fractional membership in other
departments.
Dean Osborn indicated that the creation of the department would prompt
the school to systematically review the international health curriculum which
would enable the school to offer a more coherent international health
curriculum. The existing population planning program is highly regarded in
the nation and ranks about third, but the School of Public Health would like
to be more readily recognized in the many activities of international health.
There is an increasing student demand in the population planning area and
the international health degree program. The degree program which would
be housed in the new department has a great deal of respect internationally,
and has served a useful purpose in terms of individuals coming from other
countries.
Regent Nielsen commented that the University has taken some budget
cutting measures over the last few years in order to maximize opportunities
in certain areas where it is deemed appropriate. He asked what was the
compelling reason to establish a department which had been terminated a
number of years ago.
President Shapiro said that first of all, this particular program was
terminated prior to the University's major effort in budget reductions, and
had to do with adjustments within the School of Public Health. At that time
the concern was largely one of quality and redeploying resources to more




336


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


effectively achieve the school's mission. Considering the importance of the
area, it was disappointing to have to make the decision to eliminate the
department. It was hoped that over time reorganization would take place,
new alliances would be made, the faculty would shift their interests, and
new faculty would be attracted in the area. The administration reviewed the
proposal very closely and was satisfied that the recommendation would
assist the University, particularly the School of Public Health, in realizing
its potential in a very important area. The administration is not reallocating
any new budget resources for this.
Regent Nielsen asked if there was a way in which the University could
effectively limit the expansion of the department so that there would not be a
request for a significant increase in budget allocation in the near future.
President Shapiro responded that could be done; however, his preference
would be not to do that. He assured the Board that the University would not
increase the budget for the department. It is possible that the department
would be able to raise external resources, and if they can compete effectively at the national and international level for resources, the University
should not stand in their way. With respect to the University's own general
fund resources, however, the School of Public Health could, at some future
date, reallocate some of its own resources to the new department by decreasing the resources of other programs in the school.
Regent Power commented that the Regents had given very careful
consideration to all components of the department, including its significance
within the context of the University's overall curriculum, before the previous decision to close the department was made. The international population
planning issue is becoming even more important today, and the faculty of
the school have been addressing the problem. Regent Power said she was
very supportive of this request.
Vice President Frye observed that the concern about resources was
understandable, but that should not be an issue. In his judgment, whether
this department receives additional resources should depend entirely on its
relative merit and priority, not simply its existence. If the department were
to show a level of merit, growth, and importance in the field, the University
should consider reallocating funds from another area. The department should
be able to operate in an entirely normal environment with respect to all the
other academic programs in the University.
Regent Brown expressed his agreement with Vice President Frye's view.
The University has been reviewing certain programs and cutbacks have
occurred, but no one has said that the University would not launch any new
programs. The administration and the school should be encouraged to
recommend new programs if there is merit for consideration. The University
should not be in a position of making a decision that there will never be a
funding increase for a particular program. The issue should be based on
merit and if additional funding is justified in relation to all other priorities at
the time, then it is sensible to do it.
Regent Roach asked whether there has been some thought about the
continued relationship between the proposed department and the Center for
Population Planning. He recalled at the time the department was closed and
the establishment of the center in the School of Public Health that participa



AUGUST MEETING, 1985


337


tion in the center was strongly encouraged. Since that time the quality of the
discipline has been enhanced and has attracted more students and funding
than anticipated. He hoped the relationship that has developed between the
individuals in the School of Public Health and those in sociology who have
similar interests would continue for their mutual benefit.
Dean Osborn commented that there has not been any detailed planning
of the relationship between the department and the center because that
discussion would be predicated on this decision. A method must be found to
enhance the instructional and research activities of the group in the most
efficient way.
Regent Baker remarked that, in his view, there must be a justification on
a quantitative and fiduciary basis as well as a subjective basis for any new
program in the University. In this case there ought to be a proven need,
educationally and quantitatively, which would include an analysis of the
number of students, the philosophy of the program, its intentions, and the
competition it will face in the international arena.
Dean Osborn responded that an extensive study of international health
had been initiated in all the public health schools in the United States as well
as in many medical schools that have an international health identity. That
study was the basis for this recommendation. She indicated that the population planning programs are healthy and student pressure for this is growing.
Both local and national trends suggest that this will be a very important area
to puruse.
Regent Baker commented that he was not arguing the merits of the case,
but for a methodology to justify the establishment of major expansion in the
University and that he would not support the program until he receives that
justification.
In response, Regent Roach said, in his view, there was justification in
the proposal. The program is in existence at the present time, and the
proposal does not even suggest the creation of any new faculty positions or
new physical facilities. The school is proposing a way in which the academic portion of the program can be managed most efficiently and
economically.
Regent Nielsen remarked that once a program, department, or anything
has been created, the trend seems to be to grow bigger and better. If the
formula is changed, an opportunity will be provided to ask for more
resources to enhance it even though the need will not be there. He said the
program was doing well in the current situation, and he did not feel that the
presentation indicated a compelling need to change it.
Regent Brown commented that the University always has budget constraints
and the total dollars must be allocated wisely. However, there is nothing
wrong with the expansion of a program if it has merit and if funds are
available vis-a-vis all other considerations for those funds. It is not possible
to say that nothing is going to grow at the University because some things
will grow, but it will be appropriate. The Board and the administration will
make that decision on a year-to-year basis.
Regent Brown then moved to approve the establishment of a Department
of Population Planning and International Health in the School of Public




338


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


Health. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Baker and Nielsen voting no.
President Shapiro introduced the next item on the agenda, the faculty
appointment and tenure proposals, which is an item for information and
discussion this month. Vice President Frye would lead the discussion and
Dr. George Zuidema, Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, would speak to the
proposal on the non-tenure clinical appointment track. Dr. Robert Green,
chairman of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA),
would comment on the proposals.
Non-Tenure-Track Clinical Appointments
Clarification of "Without Tenure"
Definition of "Full-Time Faculty Appointment"
Vice President Frye listed three observations pertaining to the intent of
the proposals: (1) To create a full-time non-tenure track clinical sequence.
The intent is to try to enable the institution, particularly the medical school,
to be more attractive to faculty in certain clinical situations by providing
them with equivalent status without imposing upon them equivalent obligations or responsibilities. These are individuals who are practitioners of
distinction and teachers, and are not expected to pursue a major research
orientation. Consequently, they do not qualify for tenure. (2) To change the
status of faculty appointments that currently hold the designation "without
tenure." Bylaw 5.09 indicates that anyone holding a position in the regular
faculty ranks for 8 years or longer achieves de facto tenure, but where the
specific designation "without tenure" is carried then that rule would not
apply. It is thought by some that this is ambiguous, and that it may lead to
certain abuses. The easiest way to resolve the issue would be to have the
8-year limitation apply even in cases specifically designated "without tenure." This would mean that the designation "without tenure" beyond 8
years would have more meaning in the regular faculty tracks. (3) To define
exactly what full-time faculty means, which at the present time also seems
somewhat ambiguous and variable. The present language states that a 100%
appointment is a full-time appointment. One can stop the tenure clock
simply by reducing a fraction of the appointment below 100%, thereby
inadvertently or otherwise violating the intent of the 8-year rule. To prevent
this from occurring, a reasonable fraction of appointment was sought that
would cover the intent of full-time, but at the same time allow for some
variation. It was subsequently decided that 80% would represent a reasonable lower limit above which any individual holding an appointment in the
institution should be regarded as full-time.
Dr. Zuidema noted that basically the reason for this proposal lies in the
changing health care arena and the need of the Medical School to adapt itself
to this changing health care and educational environment. He said that it was
essential to recruit highly skilled clinical faculty who would be able to be in
the forefront of the delivery of care and education of the students and
residents in this new environment. It is not very likely that these individuals
would be able to perform traditional kinds of research which makes it
unlikely that they would be successful in the regular instructional track.




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


339


Therefore, the administration proposes the appointment of this new group of
full-time, salaried clinicians to the faculty.
The vast majority of these individuals would be located outside the
medical center, and they would be active in clinical care and research. The
plan will make it structurally difficult for individuals to switch from one
track to another, thereby eliminating the opportunity to fail in one endeavor
and succeed in another. The system would be monitored carefully by the
executive committee of the medical school and the dean, and would be
evaluated at the end of three years to determine its success with respect to
the University's special needs.
Regent Power asked if she was correct in her assumption that this
proposal was widely supported within the medical center because the medical faculty clearly see the need for a satelite outreach of broader proportions
than what is available at the present time.
Dr. Zuidema affirmed the assumption. He indicated it is anticipated that
satelite facilities beyond the programs at Brighton and Chelsea will have to
be established in order to deliver the kind of primary and secondary care
necessary for the viability of the medical center. It is virtually impossible to
provide such care with traditional faculty members. He mentioned that of
approximately 15 midwest academic health centers, all but one had a clinical
track and the remaining group was developing a proposal to establish one.
Regent Roach said he understood the rationale for not allowing free
interchange between the two groups of faculty, but was concerned about the
rigidity of application. A situation might arise where increased maturity or
experience would cause an individual to become much more interested in the
alternative. This proposal would bar entry into that other field. He agreed
that there should not be a "swinging door" policy, but there ought to be
enough flexibility to accommodate to the institution's staffing needs and and
to reasonable skill and ability of the members of the family.
Dr. Zuidema commented that there would, of course, be exceptional
cases, but the intent was to make it difficult enough so that route is not taken
casually.
Dr. Green stated that SACUA understood and accepted the need for this
new track and was supportive of the concept of the proposal, particularly for
those who are outside the main portion of the hospital and satelite clinics
and elsewhere. There was anxiety, however, about the proposal primarily
with respect to academic freedom.
He indicated that hospitals today are one of the major arenas in our
society where technology and humanity come together; not always in ways
that are disposed toward happy conclusions. The faculty are concerned about
creating a group of people who do not understand the academic system or
the procedural protections of the tenure system. Their concern is not enough
to warrant non-support of the proposal, but one that asks that safeguards and
limitations regarding these issues be clearly stated. SACUA has not reviewed the current draft which offers a three-year review of the program by
the Office of Academic Affairs.
President Shapiro commented that all three proposals are considered to
be extremely important, and asked the Board for their careful consideration.
He said that these proposals are believed to be in the best interests of the




340


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


University in the long run, and would like to proceed with their implementation as quickly as possible. The proposals will be brought to the September
Regents' meeting for action.
As the discussion continued, general questions were raised concerning
the importance of tenure to academic freedom; economic security and
performance; the need for flexibility from a management standpoint; and the
meaning of the designation "without tenure" when hiring new faculty
members to the University.
Brighton Health Center
Vice Provost Zuidema then reviewed the recommendation to approve the
submission of a certificate of need application for the Brighton Health
Center. He explained that the facility is now a professional corporation
under the name of Dr. David Dickinson. Originally it was planned to
develop the center as an extension of the University of Michigan Hospitals,
but just prior to opening the health center the Michigan Department of
Public Health did not approve the request. Consequently the professional
corporation route was elected. This has caused a limited ability to advertise
the health center as a unit of the UM Hospitals and to expand services to
include better coverage in internal medicine, obstetrics, and gynecology
services.
The University would like to increase the Brighton Health Center's
effectiveness in developing an outreach program in the area north of Ann
Arbor. There is reason to believe that a certificate of need would be
considered more favorably at this time.
Regent Nielsen indicated he has had occasion to visit the facility and
spoke highly of Dr. Dickinson and the effective work of the facility. He then
moved to approve submission of the Certificate of Need application for the
Brighton Health Center. The Certificate of Need provides for the addition of
Obstetrics and Gynecology services to the existing Medicine and Pediatric
services now offered at Brighton, and expansion of the facility from 2,200
square fee to 4,200 square feet. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Renovations-Children's Psychiatric Hospital
Regent Nielsen moved to approve proceeding with the renovations to the
6th level of the Children's Psychiatric Hospital. Regent Varner seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Replacement Hospital Project Contract Awards
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the award of contracts for the RHP,
Adult General Hospital (AGH) and Ambulatory Care Facility (ACF) projects, for the Communications Systems, Proposal Package #C9, Emergency
Medical Services Radio to Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois, and the
two-way radio to TRA Electronic Communications, Warren, Michigan.
Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Following review of the recommendation, Regent Power moved to
approve the award of a construction contract to the low bidder, B. J.
Construction, Inc., Milan, Michigan, for construction and food service




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


341


equipment for the Mott Children's Hospital kitchen renovations. Regent
Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received information concerning the award of a contract for
the Incinerator project's stack to the lowest qualified bidder, with the
condition that the bid be under the budget that had been authorized in June
1985. Bids were received and a construction contract was awarded to Artco,
Inc., Troy, Michigan, whose bid was well within budget. The savings will
be applied to the second component of the project, BP#2, Incinerator
Equipment.
Regent Varner moved to approve the award of an equipment contract to
the low   proposer, Basic Environmental Engineering, Inc., Glen Ellyn,
Illinois, for Bid Package #2, Incinerator Equipment, the second component
of the UMH Incinerator Project. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Bylaws Revisions
On a motion by Regent Power and seconded by Regent Smith, several
revisions to certain bylaws were approved and adopted. The revisions are as
follows:
In Sections 4.01, 4.03, 4.04, and 4.06, the exclusive use of the masculine pronoun was eliminated, and the addition to section 4.03 follows:
Sec. 4.03. Senate Assembly-Composition
There shall be a Senate Assembly which shall consist of seventy-two Senate members
apportioned among the various schools and colleges according to the number of Senate
members in each school or college and one member from the Division of Physical Education.
The Assembly shall make a reapportionment every three years. The members of the Assembly
shall serve for terms of three years (or longer in accordance with Sec. 4.07) so adjusted that the
terms of approximately one-third of the members shall expire each year. A member who has
served one term will not immediately be eligible for re-election.
The following sections were revised in accordance with the creation of
the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs position:
Sec. 5.06. The Deans and Executive Committees
The dean or director, or administrative head of a school, college or department of instruction or research shall be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the President, and in
the Medical School also by the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, to act as executive officer of
the school, college or department.
If an executive committee has been created by the Board for the school, college or
department, the dean, director, or head shall be assisted by the executive committee of which
he or she will be ex officio the chair. The executive committee in addition to assisting with
administrative functions shall be charged with the duties of investigating and formulating
educational and instructional policies for consideration by the faculty and shall act for the
faculty in matters of budgets, promotions and appointments.
Sec. 11.12. The University of Michigan Medical Center
The term, "The University of Michigan Medical Center," describes the complex of
buildings and activities included in the Medical School, the School of Nursing, and The
University of Michigan Hospitals, all functioning cooperatively in teaching, research, and
patient care.
Sec. 11.121. Vice Provost for Medical Affairs (New bylaw)
The Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, responsible to the Vice President for Academic
Affairs and Provost, shall be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the President. The
Vice Provost for Medical Affairs shall exercise executive responsibility for The University of




342


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


Michigan Hospitals and the Medical School in all matters, including planning and budget,
academic programs and objectives, and all policy issues.
Sec. 11.133. The Medical School-The Mental Health Research Institute
The Mental Health Research Institute shall be maintained for the purpose of conducting
basic research concerning human behavior, normal and abnormal, focusing on the problems of
mental health and the prevention, treatment, and cure of mental disease. The Institute shall be a
part of the Department of Psychiatry of the Medical School. The Institute shall be in the charge
of a Director appointed by the Board, on recommendation by the Dean of the Medical School,
the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, and the President and responsible through the chair of the
Department of Psychiatry to the Dean, the Executive Committee, and the Vice Provost for
Medical Affairs. The Director shall be assisted by an Advisory Committee of nine members.
Six of these shall be ex officio: the Dean of the Medical School or his or her designee, the Vice
Provost for Medical Affairs or his or her designee, the Vice President for Research or his or her
designee, the Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts or his or her designee,
the Dean of the School of Public Health or his or her designee, and the chair of the Department
of Psychiatry. The other three shall be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the
President, the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, and the Dean of the Medical School, with
terms so arranged that one shall expire each year.
Sec. 11.124. The Medical School-The Simpson Memorial Institute
The Simpson Memorial Institute shall be maintained for the study of blood diseases and
neoplastic diseases, the alleviation of the sufferings of persons afflicted with these diseases, and
the discovery of cures for same; provided, however, that if a cure can be found for these
diseases, either by this Institute or by some other agency or person, the work and activities of
the Institute shall be continued in perpetuity in the investigation and seeking of cures for other
disease or diseases as shall from time to time be selected by a committee of three members of
the faculty of the Medical School to be chosen by the Board.
The Institute shall be a part of the Department of Internal Medicine of the Medical School.
It shall be in the charge of a Director appointed by the Board on recommendation by the Dean
of the Medical School, the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, and the President.
Sec. 11.135. The Medical School-The Kresge Hearing Research Institute
The Kresge Hearing Research Institute shall conduct research into the cause and treatment
of disorders of hearing and communication. The Institute shall be a unit of the Department of
Otorhinolaryngology of the Medical School. It shall be in the charge of a Director appointed by
the Board on recommendation by the Chair of the Department, the Dean of the Medical School,
the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, and the President. The Director shall be a member of the
regular instructional staff of the Medical School in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology. The
Director shall be assisted by an Advisory Committee of the faculty appointed by the Chair of
the Department, with the concurrence of the Dean. The Director shall be responsible to the
Chair of the Department.
Sec. 11.151. The University of Michigan Hospitals-Executive Board
There shall be an Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals composed of
the Dean of the Medical School, the Dean of the School of Nursing, the Vice President for
Academic Affairs and Provost, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Vice
President for Government Relations, the Vice President for Development and Communication,
the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, the Chief of Clinical Affairs of The University of
Michigan Hospitals, the Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals, and two
nominees from the Medical/Dental Staff of The University of Michigan Hospitals.
The Chair shall be named by the President and the Board of Regents.
The nominees of the Medical/Dental staff will be appointed by the Board of Regents on
recommendation by the President, and will serve four-year terms, so staggered to provide one
replacement each two years.
Sec. 11.151B. The University of Michigan Hospitals-Public Advisory Board
There shall be a Public Advisory Board, composed of no more than fifteen public members
serving three-year terms, staggered so that five will be appointed each year. A representative of
the FRIENDS of The University of Michigan Hospitals will serve a one-year term and be
appointed annually by the FRIENDS. Members shall be appointed by the Board of Regents
upon recommendation of the President, and one member shall be named as chair and one
member as vice chair by the Board of Regents on nomination of the President.




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


343


The Public Advisory Board will provide advice and assistance on general operation of The
University of Michigan Hospitals, public relations, future planning, governmental relations, and
fund-raising.
The Public Advisory Board will report to the Executive Director of The University of
Michigan Hospitals, to the Executive Board of the University of Michigan Hospitals, to the
Vice Provost for Medical Affairs, and, through the President, to the Board of Regents. The
Board shall submit its minutes to members of the Executive Board of The University of
Michigan Hospitals and the Board of Regents.
The Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals shall be responsible for
providing staff support for the Board.
Sec. 11.152. The University of Michigan Hospitals-The Executive Director
The Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals shall be appointed by the
Board of Regents upon recommendation by the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs and the
President. The Executive Director shall be responsibile to the Vice Provost for Medical Affairs
(who is also the Vice Chair of the Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals),
and shall have immediate responsibility for the operation, maintenance and administrative
affairs of The University of Michigan Hospitals. The Executive Director shall, ex officio, be a
member of the Executive Faculty of the medical School and of the Executive Committee of the
Medical School.
Sec. 11.153. The University of Michigan Hospitals-Professional Service
The professional medical service of the Hospitals shall be rendered by the several departments or units of the Medical School to which the responsibility of the care of patients and the
operation of clinical laboratories are delegated. Each of the departments shall organize, appoint
necessary officers, and adopt rules for its procedure and government within the limits of its
authority.
Sec. 13.12. Computing Center
The Center shall provide computing service for teaching and research units of the University
and maintain computing facilities to be available to faculty and students for instructional and
research purposes. The Center shall be in the charge of a Director, responsibile to the Vice
Provost for Information Technology, and appointed by the Board upon recommendation by the
Vice Provost for Information Technology and the President.
The Director shall be assisted by an Executive Committee consisting of the Vice President
for Research or a representative and six members of the University Senate, appointed by the
Board upon recommendation by the President. The appointed members shall hold office for
terms of three years, two members being appointed each year.
Sec. 6.02. Degree Program Definitions
Undergraduate degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art
School of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
School of Education
College of Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music
School of Natural Resources
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Division of Physical Education
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Science, and Letters
Division of Education
School of Engineering
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
School of Management




344


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


The University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Science
School of Health Sciences
School of Management
Graduate degree programs are offered by the schools and colleges on all three campuses,
and by the divisions at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, through the agency of the Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, leading to the master's, doctoral, and related degrees.
In addition, the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the School of Business Administration, the School of Natural Resources, and the Schools of Management at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn and at The University of Michigan-Flint are authorized to offer the master's
degree in appropriate professional fields and the School of Music, the master's degree in
applied music.
Graduate professional degree programs are offered by the:
Medical School
School of Dentistry
Law School
School of Public Health
School of Social Work
College of Pharmacy
Sec. 11.022. The School of Business Administration-Division of Executive Education
The School of Business Administration shall maintain a Division of Executive Education
which shall offer seminars and programs at various levels and across a broad spectrum of
subject matter that is of interest to the business and public service communities. The Division of
Executive Education shall be managed by and Associate Dean, responsible to the Dean and
Executive Committee, appointed by the Board on recommendation by the President.
When Section 11.136 was amended in December 1981, a sentence was
inadvertently omitted. The Bylaw should read as follows:
Sec. 11.136. The Medical School-The Neuropsychiatric Institute
The Neuropsychiatric Institute shall be maintained for the purpose of treating patients,
engaging in research concerning mental disease, aiding in establishing in the State of Michigan
suitable preventive measures to reduce the amount of mental disease in this state, and training
physicians and related health professionals in the care and treatment of mental disease. The
Institute shall be in the charge of the chair of the Department of Psychiatry, Director, ex
officio.
The instructional programs of the Institute and its programs of scientific research and of
preventive psychiatry shall be under the direction of the dean and executive committee. The
budgets for the program of instruction, scientific research and preventive psychiatry shall be
incorporated into that of the Medical School.
The care and treatment of patients in the Institute shall be integrated with the activities of
The University of Michigan Hospitals. For this purpose, the Institute shall be a department of
the University Hospitals, and its budgets shall be incorporated into that prepared for the
Hospitals. The Hospitals shall be responsible for the business administration of the patient care
functions of the Institute, and shall keep separate accounts of its budget so that the disposition
of the appropriation received from the state may be satisfactorily recorded.
In the case of patients transferred from any of the state hospitals for clinical or research
purposes, the Director of the Institute shall be responsible to the superintendent of the
transferring hospital for the patient's care, custody, and treatment.
The records of the Institute shall conform with those of The University of Michigan
Hospitals, and all patients shall be admitted through the Hospitals.
A provision shall be made whereby all patients admitted to the Institute shall contract to
remain in the Institute at least five days after giving notice of a desire to leave, patients to be
detained only when in the opinion of the Director such detention is necessary.
Technical changes such as eliminating masculine pronouns and clarification of titles or office were approved for bylaw sections 3.01, 7.02, 11.111,
and 12.05.




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


345


I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of May 16 and 17, 1985 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed his reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also filed a report on non-competitive purchases
over $1,000 from single sources.
The meeting was recessed for lunch.
The meeting was reconvened at 1:00 P.M.
Student Fees, 1985-86
President Shapiro introduced Mr. Paul Josephson, President of Michigan
Student Assembly, who wished to speak to the issue of the proposed tuition
fee. He indicated that The University of Michigan should freeze tuition for
the 1985-86 academic year for both in-state and out-state students. He felt
that the University should be more accessible to students of limited financial
means. The benefits to the student body from the University's status as a
world class research institution are obvious, but the students have borne an
increasing share of the cost of academic research. Mr. Josephson said the
University is becoming affordable only for those of substantial economic
resources. Freezing tuition would be a small step towards reducing the
student subsidy to the University.
Michigan League Renovations
Mr. Frederick Mayer, the University Planner, reviewed the design drawings of the proposed renovations of the Michigan League Cafeteria and
responded to questions.
Regent Power moved to approve the design of the Michigan League
renovations and approve releasing the project for bids. Regent Waters
seconded the moton and it was adopted.
Glen/Catherine Parking Structure Pedestrian Bridge
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented that the Regents previously had
approved the site and architectural firm for a new 1,000 car parking structure
at Glen and Catherine Streets. During discussions with of some of the issues
that are in the process of resolution, it became apparent that it would be
appropriate to provide the bridge from the structure over Glen Avenue that
had been contemplated in the original design in order to avoid the pedestrian/
vehicle traffic across the Glen Avenue.
Mr. Mayer then described the architect's design for the structure. He
indicated that the most important factor was the construction of a parking
facility to accommodate 1,000 cars in an efficient and functional manner.
The sharp topographical changes, environmental criteria, budget considerations, and the pressing need for parking in the area were all factors to be
considered. If budget restrictions exclude covering the bridge at this time, it
was suggested that adequate measures be taken to allow for this without




346


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


having a major reconstruction project later. Vice President Brinkerhoff
indicated that a cover for the bridge to keep out the elements was a strong
objective. This issue would be bid as an alternate for final determination
when the bids have been received.
Questions followed concerning the capacity of the structure and the
feasibility of adding an additional floor to increase its capacity. Perhaps it
would be advisable to make the structural frame strong enough to allow for
future upward expansion. The north entrance to the structure was discussed.
It was suggested that an entrance as far west as possible would be appropriate.
Regent Power moved to approve the design of the Glen Avenue parking
structure and to authorize completion of architectural drawings, including
the options mentioned, and solicitation of bids from contractors. Regent
Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
1985-86 Operating Budgets
President Shapiro indicated that the 1985-86 operating budget for Ann
Arbor and the corresponding budgets for Flint and Dearborn, and the
associated fee schedules would be the next topic for discussion.
The President commented upon the recommendations with respect to
student fee increases for next year. After careful consideration, it was
recommended to freeze tuition at all three campuses again for undergraduate
in-state students. Despite the very generous increases in state support over
the last few years, there is a large gap to close before state support to the
University is restored to its previous levels. Therefore, the recommendation
to freeze tuition is based on the belief that supporting these kinds of policies,
which were set by the legislature and the governor, the University can best
insure the long-term support of the state.
Vice President Frye commented upon the elements in the revenue and
expense side of the budget. The state appropriation of $17,255,700 reflects a
10.4% increase in the operating appropriation for this year. Since the state
only funds about 50% of the general fund budget that, in effect, is 5.2% of
the total general fund. An additional 1.5% for research excellence would
bring the total increase to 11.9%. Although this year's budget is very
generous, it is unfortunate that the state could not agree on a differential
appropriation for the research universities in the state of Michigan.
Vice President Frye indicated that the tuition recommendation of a zero
increase for undergraduate in-state students will undoubtedly have a programmatic impact on the total general fund budget of approximately $2.2
million appears. Indirect cost recovery allocated to the general fund reflects
a 5% increase and interest income adds approximately $220,000 to the
revenue sources.
Assuming the number of students and the mix will be about the same as
last year, incremental revenue from student fees will be $11,029,700, including the computer network fee in business administration and engineering,
the health service fee, recreational sports, and the proposed rate changes.
The proposed rate changes are: no increase for in-state undergraduate students; 8% average increase for all other students, except an 11% increase for
MBA students in business administration, 9.5% increase for law students,
and 9.9% for medical students. The recommendation also includes a $50




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


347


increase in the computer access fee in business administration and engineering. This brings the total revenue for 1985-86 to $29,934,600 reflecting a
9.05% growth overall in general fund revenues.
Expenditures for 1985-86 include $10,972,600, which is a 5% increase
on the salary base plus $1 million to be used for special market and merit
adjustments for academic staff, and limited special adjustments for certain
classifications in the P&A program and other reclassifications in the system.
Vice President Frye indicated that the 5% increase on the salary base does
not reflect a 5% salary program because, as in past years, the University is
attempting to avoid an across-the-board program as opposed to a strong
merit program. The staff benefits increase of 12.7% reflects the increases in
the Social Security and Blue Cross/Blue Shield rate increases. Increases for
non-salary and utility items are 5% and 7.9% respectively and approximately $500,000 for other small mandatory transfer fee allocation items and
debt service. Other expenses include the $1.4 million deficit from last year;
under-budgeted operating expenses which includes some legal fees, rentals
for office research space, and the graduate student tuition grant program;
student aid comprises an 8% overall increase; equipment renovation and
other commitments. The total expenses of $31,883,200 leaves an operating
deficit for 1985 of $1,948,600, for which the Regents will be asked to
consider an operating deficit again this year.
Following the presentation of the budget for the Ann Arbor campus,
several areas of concern were discusssed. These included the ongoing
internal reallocation process which has taken place over the last several
years; the ability to provide adequate aid for all students who are in need;
and developing a fundraising program to erase the deficit and improve the
overall general fund budget.
Regent Nielsen said everyone recognizes that the only revenue sources
available to the University are the state appropriation and tuition. Since
these sources have not been sufficient in several years to keep tuition at a
minimum, other inititatives must be explored that will generate more revenue for the general fund budget. He asked that a proposal in this direction be
presented to the Regents within the next few months.
President Shapiro mentioned the considerable amount of time and effort
that has been invested in improving the University's private fundraising
capacity. The University needs funds to support the core teaching programs
which historically have been the responsibility of the state and students
through tuition. Monies received from the federal government provides
funds only for special projects of mutual interest and not for the instructional, educational research programs. The same is true of most corporate
funds. Even private fundraising efforts tend to be designated for special
donor interest projects. Results of this new effort are beginning to be seen;
nevertheless, the University must continue to pursue new ideas for resources.
Regent Power indicated that, in her view, the governor had taken a
major initiative in his attempt to distinguish a small group of universities
which most likely could assist the state in its overall attempts to expand and
diversify its economy. The University must continue to pursue the concept
of the research excellence fund by convincing the legislature of the longterm significance of the concept.




348


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


Vice President Frye remarked that he wanted the University community
to understand that, although the total budget figure is extremely good, the
several years of under funding which has caused the deficit budget, and the
inflation-driven upward cost of utilities and staff benefits has eroded the
budget by at least 25%.
Regent Baker commented that, in his view, the Board of Regents must
protect the independence of this University at any cost. He indicated that his
position on the subject had not changed over'the years, regardless of
whether there was a Republican or Demoratic governor of the state. He then
made the following comments:
The University of Michigan Regents and administrative officers invested the early part of
this week at Bay City, Michigan discussing the vital requirements of the University over the
next decade. The administration presented a compelling case that
(1) In inflation corrected dollars the University general fund receives $35 million less
money from the state of Michigan than it did in 1974.
(2) To offset the loss of state-appropriated revenue it was necessary to raise tuition an equal
amount over the same time period.
(3) The University continues to operate with a shortfall of $35 million dollars annually over
its base requirements even though the state appropriation for the University's next
budget year ranges somewhat above a 13% increase.
(4) The University's quality continues to suffer from lack of funding endangering the
University and limiting it in its ability to educate, do research and serve the public
interest.
In 1850 the people of Michigan set The Universty of Michigan apart from state government
as an independent, autonomous, constitutional corporation because the governors and legislatures of that time had nearly ruined the University through political interference. Two subsequent constitutional conventions reaffirmed the concept of university independence. That
independence has served Michigan well, providing one of the best systems of public higher
education in the world.
Previous Boards of Regents of this University have fought governors, legislatures and others
to retain the University's independence in the courts and elsewhere.
This Board and this administration continue to be charged with the responsibility of keeping
The University of Michigan free of the political interference.
Governor Blanchard initially recommended a 24 million dollar increase for the coming year
in general fund revenue for the University of Michigan, plus a raise in instate tuition,
approximately the 4-1/2% inflation rate. The legislature appropriated approximately a 24
million dollar increase to The University. The Governor then rescinded his recommendation for
a tuition increase even though the need for additional revenue remains.
On July 27th I received a letter from the Governor suggesting he would veto The University
of Michigan's higher education appropriation if instate tuition was raised at Michigan in spite of
his earlier recommendation for a 4-1/2% increased tuition. Incidentally, this is the first threatening letter I ever received from a Governor of Michigan in nearly 20 years of service as a public
officer in the field of higher education. I understand other trustees and regents of higher
educational institutions in the state received a similar letter. The Governor's action is particularly difficult to understand since the University administration has been extraordinarily supportive of his administration.
The Governor is a candidate for re-election. All governors want to be re-elected and all of
us understand his desire to stand for re-election. However, I respectfully recommend he not use
public higher education and the independent university system as a foil for his reelection
campaign. Obviously I have no control over the Governor's actions. However, I hope to
influence to some degree the actions of The University of Michigan as this university slides
down the slippery slope of political involvement.
My judgments and recommendations to the President and the Regents are based on three
principal premises. They are:
(1) The University of Michigan is constitutionally independent.
(2) As elected public officials we have a public obligation to speak out on issues which
injure the independence and health of the university system.




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


349


(3) While the University must participate to some degree in the political process, it errs in
becoming a key player in the political process.
The President has recommended the tuition proposal now under consideration by the
Regents. My objections to the proposal are:
(1) Last year, the University administration recommended and the Regents concurred with, over
my objections, a compromise of the University independence by allowing the Governor
to make the judgment on the amount of income and expenditures for The University of
Michigan, a basic right reserved to the University by the Michigan Constitution.
(2) This year, for the second time, the University, while publicly urgently claiming cash
shortfall of 35 million dollars annually, again demurs its constitutional authority to the
Governor and marches off at the first beat of the Governor's drum.
(3) The University further compromises its independence by joining with the Governor in
the political process to achieve short-term gains which will in the long term greatly
injure the ability of future University Presidents and future Boards of Regents to
maintain the University's freedom.
Therefore, I wish to disassociate myself from this action which, in my view, so flagrantly
compromises the independence and autonomy of The University of Michigan. I will not support
the President's proposal.
At one time I visited a slaughter house specializing in pork products. I was dumbfounded by
what I saw and smelled. I then knew why Winston Churchill said "There are two things the
public ought not see:
(a) The making of sausage and
(b) The backroom political process in action."
The University should be the beneficiary of the political process, not a primary participant.
Regent Roach referred to the constitution of Michigan which states that
this Board of Regents has the authority and control over the properties and
actions of The University of Michigan. In his view, all of the Regents
exercise that authority. Also under the state constitution the governor and
the legislature have the power of the purse. The University attempts to
optimize its appropriation every year through its executive officers and
friends in Lansing, and everyone feels that it is not enough.
He referred to data which shows that over the ten-year period, 1972-82,
public education in Michigan was underfunded 15% in real terms, but The
University of Michigan was underfunded 23%. For the second consecutive
year now the Universty has received very substantial increases, but they are
not substantial enough. If you add the deferred maintenance and deferred
library acquisitions to the underfunded operating expenses, the underfunded
figure would more likely be $50-60 million per year rather than the $35
million per year that was previously mentioned.
Regent Roach said that although the research excellence fund did not
materialize, the University gained approximately $3 million more in the
general fund appropriation than the governor's recommendation. Both Michigan State University and The University of Michigan had anticipated being
treated incrementally better, and this did not occur. Everyone received
essentially the same percentage increase. If the capital outlay bill is passed
as proposed in both houses of congress, there will be some incremental
funds available for maintenance which can help the current situation. Whether
it is the Democrats or the Republicans, sufficient funds have not been
appropriated to the University over a period of time. Now at least, a very
conscientious effort is being made in Lansing to remedy the situation.
Regent Roach said that each member of the Board would like not only to
freeze tuition, but to reduce it. One can only do so much. The Regents must
act in the best interest of the University in the long term.




350


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


Regent Brown indicated that all of the Regents have a sincere concern
and interest in the independence of the institution, and that concern has been
expressed many times in the past. He disagreed, however, that the University would be surrendering its independence by freezing tuition. The constitution of the state of Michigan empowers the Board of Regents to operate
the University. The constitution will not be changed in any way by any
regental action with respect to tuition. The mere fact that the Regents are
about to vote on the question of tuition for the coming year is clear and final
proof that no power has been relinquished, in spite of the warnings the
University received last year.
Regent Nielsen again urged the University to establish a consortium to
pursue creative revenue initiatives to derive additional resources in order to
contain the rise in tuition.
Instate, Undergraduate Student Fees, 1985-86
Regent Power then moved to approve the recommended fee schedules
for the Ann Arbor campus. Regent Brown seconded the motion.
Regent Nielsen asked that the fee scheduled be separated by voting only
on the undergraduate tuition at this time, because in his view, the freeze
should include tuition for graduate instate students. He then moved to amend
the motion to approve the fee schedule for instate undergraduate students.
Regent Smith seconded the motion.
Regent Varner commented that, of course, no one wanted to raise
tuition, and as Regent Nielsen mentioned, the out-of-state students will one
day become alumni of the University. The Regents and the administration,
however, have the responsibility to maintain the quality of the institution so
that those students can graduate and their children can attend The University
of Michigan. Unless steps are taken to maintain that quality, the University
will not be the kind of institution the new alumni and their families will
want to support. No matter what kind of plans are established for the future,
a decision must be made at this meeting with respect to funding the
University for another year.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on undergraduate tuition, as
recommended. It was adopted with Regent Baker abstaining.
Instate/Out-of-State Graduate Professional Student Fees, 1985-86
Regent Nielsen commented upon the fee schedules which were recommended for graduate/professional students. He said they were exhorbitant
and, in his view, the fees for graduate in-state students should be frozen
also.
Regent Roach remarked that the fees for law, medicine, and dentistry
compared favorably with the University's peer private institutions, but not as
favorably with the public institutions. Michigan remains, however, a tremendous educational bargain for aspiring young professional students.
In response to a query by Regent Baker concerning the advisability of
freezing tuition when the University is in need of additional revenue,
President Shapiro indicated that the matter is very straightforward. He said,
in this view, both the governor and the legislature are anxious to support
higher education. This interest has been demonstrated in the last two years




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


351


through the operating and capital outlay funds. The administration is attempting to support those moves because in their opinion, it will maximize
the resource flow to the University over the next several years. The recommendation is made as a judgment that it is a proper action for a number of
reasons. One of them is the belief that it will succeed in supporting those
forces that are interested in higher education and encouraging their continued support.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the fee schedule for the
Ann Arbor campus for both instate and out-of-state graduate professional
students. The motion was adopted with Regents Nielsen and Smith voting
no and Baker abstaining.
1985-86 Operating Budget, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones reviewed the 1985-86 budget for the Flint campus. He
indicated that it was a very stringent budget with many unment needs that
are not addressed. The new budget, however, would enable the current
levels of operation to be maintained along with a modest enhancement in
several important areas.
The Flint campus originally identified approximately $1,350,000 as the
incremental adjustment needed in order to avoid increasing tuition. The
budget, as approved by the conference committee and adjusted for the
university fiscal year, would allow a state appropriation of $1,227,200.
Other fees, primarily late payment fees, would adjust the total to $1,300,000.
Without the research excellence funds, there would be approximately $40,000
less than the preliminary plan which was presented a few months ago.
This would allow a merit salary program of about 7% for faculty and
staff and a special 5% adjustment for clerical staff. Utilities and non-salary
inflation adjustments total approximately 106%. Some deferrals of expenditures for the coming year were made in the area of program improvement.
Chancellor Jones commented that UM-Flint was pleased that a budget could
be recommended without a tuition increase, especially because the socioeconomic mix of students was quite different than that on the Ann Arbor
campus. Since tuition was not increased, no vote was taken.
1985-86 Operating Budget, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Jenkins commented that the Dearborn campus is scheduled to
receive 11 + percentage increase and they are grateful for that. The research
excellence fund should add about $225,000 to the total. The overall increase
for the campus, however, is only 6.5%, which poses some difficulties for
the campus in maintaining programs. The news that there will not be an
increase in tuition will be good news to UM-Dearborn students, 70% of
whom are employed. The appropriation is approximately $300,000 to $400,000
below minimum needs. The salary program which had been originally
scheduled will be maintained. No vote was taken on the fee schedule
because tuition remained the same.
Chancellor Jenkins indicated that approximately 17% of the compensation program will be used for automatic staff benefit increases such as
medical insurance and social security. The costs for library acquisitions and
glass for laboratories increase about 10-20% per year, and the increase for




352


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


hard and soft computer equipment is rising at astronomical percentages. All
of these factors add up to the need for additional funding.
In summary, Chancellor Jenkins remarked that the UM-Dearbom budget
was in balance, but in a very unnatural way, making it impossible to
accomplish some of the things that ought to be accomplished.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice President Cosovich filed the monthly report on gifts and contracts.
They were received with thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Allied Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey; for fellowships and scholarships in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering, for unrestricted
support of the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business Administration
Component. for support of the Institute of Science and Technology, and for
Employee  M atching  Gifts funds........................................$  97,680
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois;
for support of the Medical School fund.................................. 23,371
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the Schools of
Dentistry and Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy funds............... 58,788
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York; for research in the
Medical School fund.................................................  23,887
American Electric Power Corporation, New York, New York; for the Business School
Associates  Program   fund..............................................  5,000
Ameritrust Company, Cleveland, Ohio; for unrestricted support of the Campaign for
Michigan - School of Business Administration Component, and for Employee
M atching  G ifts  funds.................................................  5,240
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for program support in the College of
Engineering, geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds...................... 13,270
J. Reid and Pauline V. Anderson, Los Altos Hills, California Verbatim Corporation
common stock; for the J. Reid and Pauline V. Anderson Professorship in the
College  of Engineering  fund.......................................... 1,000,375
Anonymous Donor; for support of the Center for the Continuing Education of Women
fund...............................................................  25,000
Anonymous Donor; for chemotherapy research in the Medical School fund........ 50,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for research in the Medical School fund....  7,167
Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the Arco Fellowships and
Faculty Support Funds in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching
G ifts  funds.........................................................  50,100
Bechtel Foundation, San Francisco. California; for scholarships and for the Bechtel
Discretionary Support Fund in the College of Engineering, and for Employee
M atching  G ifts  funds.................................................  12,975
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  15,232
Conrad N. Church, Phoenix, Arizona Nucor Corporation common stock; for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan fund........................ 10,618
Helen A. Coller Estate; for the Frederick A. Coller Memorial in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  10,000
Anita Williams Cote Estate: for the Anita Williams Cote Fund in the Medical School
fund...............................................................  34,934
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York; for research in
the  M edical  School fund..............................................  17,500
Margaret H. Davis Estate; for Michigamua fund..............................  20,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit; for Employee Matching Gifts fund............  6,215
Marie H. DeWitt Estate; for undergraduate student aid fund.................... 24,810
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland; for support of research in the
School of Public  Health  fund..........................................  18,000




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


353


Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; employee matching gifts for the Ernst
& Whinney Professorship in Accounting, School of Business Administration
fund...............................................................  15,505
Ex-Cell-O Corporation, Troy; for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan -
School of Business Administration Component fund........................ 20,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund..............................................................  6,750
Clinton B. Ford, Wilton, Connecticut; for unrestricted support of The University of
Michigan - Campaign for Michigan fund................................. 35,000
Ford Motor Company, Milan; for the College of Engineering Minority Engineering
Program   fund.....................................................  9,900
William A. Garrison Estate; for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship
fund...............................................................  5,872
GenCorp, Akron, Ohio; for ergonomics and physical stress research in the College of
Engineering  fund....................................................  25,000
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota; for the Business School Associates
Program fund.......................................................  5,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust; for the Charles H. Gershenson fund............... 50,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland; for the Gerstacker Teaching Fellowship in
the  College  of Engineering  fund......................................  15,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Project fund............................................  400,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics
fu nd..............................................................  15,0 00
GTE Service Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut: for Employee Matching Gifts
fu n d...............................................................  7,9 9 0
Mr. and Mrs. Steven K. Hamp, Ann Arbor; for support of the Museum of Art fund..  5,030
Herrick Foundation, Detroit; for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan -
School of Business Administration Component fund........................ 10,000
ITT Thompson Metals Division, ITT Automotive, Bloomfield Hills; for automotive
transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology fund........  5,000
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California; for unrestricted
support of the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business Administration
Component; and  of the President's funds.................................  25,000
Janssen Pharmaceutica, Piscataway, New Jersey; for allergy research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  8,200
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana; for the Joseph and
Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry fund.................. 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey; for research in the Medical
School  fund........................................................  20,675
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for the Campaign for Michigan - Burn
Center Component, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds................. 356,675
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement Memorial
for patient care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals fund.........  7,416
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey; Schering-Plough Corporation
common stock, for the Law School General Endowment fund................ 10,565
Maccabees Mutual Life Insurance Company, Southfield: for the Maccabees Mutual
Scholarship, The University of Michigan-Dearborn fund....................  8,000
Machine Vision Internatiorfal Corporation, Ann Arbor; for the Machine Vision Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Fund in the College of Engineering fund..  7,800
Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit; for unrestricted support of the Campaign for
Michigan - School of Business Administration Component fund.............. 10,000
Marathon Oil Company, Findlay, Ohio; for the Chemical Engineering Industrial
Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering fund...................... 13,500
Agnes C. McKay Estate: for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research
Endow m ent  fund....................................................  11,552
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey; for the Merck Company Foundation Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy and for Employee Matching Gifts
funds..............................................................  10,205




354


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of
Michigan  Hospitals fund..............................................  14,000
Miles Pharmaceuticals, West Haven, Connecticut: for pharmacological research in the
Medical School fund.................................................  10,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts fund.  5,250
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit; for
ergonomics research in the College of Engineering fund....................  8,250
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia; for research in the
Medical School fund.................................................  18,709
Owens-Coming Fiberglass Corporation, Toledo, Ohio; for the Owens Coming Chemical Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering fund...................  10,000
Owens-Illinois, Toledo, Ohio Owens-Coming Fiberglass Corporation common stock;
for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan; School of Business Administration Component fund..........................................  10,013
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York; for Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  6,025
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio; for the Campaign for Michigan -
Chemical Sciences Component fund.....................................  8,500
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio; for Employee Matching Gifts fund.....  8,990
Pryor Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Millard H. and Mary S. Pryor Fund in the
School of Business Administration  fund..................................  32,800
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton; for suppport of the School of Education fund....... 10,000
Marguerite Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona; for support of the Medical School fund...... 10,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Kenilworth, New Jersey; Employee Matching Gifts
fund...............................................................  9,0 25
Skillman Foundation, Detroit; for the Skillman Chair in Pediatric Ophthalmology in
the Medical School, and for the Campaign for Michigan - Gifts Pending
D esignation  fund....................................................  850,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I.
Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School fund.............................  6,182
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for research in the Institute of
Public Policy Studies; and in the Institute for Social Research funds.......... 100,000
Victor L. Streeter Trust, Ann Arbor; for the Victor L. Streeter Computation Laboratory  in  the College  of Engineering  fund..................................  6,000
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo; for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture in the
M edical  School  fund................................................  5,000
Robert A. Sullivan Estate; A land contract receivable on real property located in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin; for the Robert A. Sullivan Professorship in the Law
School  fund........................................................  47,23 1
George and Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso; for the Symes Scholarship in
Chemical and  Electrical Engineering  fund................................  35,632
Time, Inc., New York, New York; for professional journalism fellowships in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts
funds..............................................................  18,15 0
Touche Ross & Company, Detroit; for the Campaign for Michigan - School of
Business Administration, Division of Management Education Dormitory fund...  5,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor Dow Chemical Company common stock; for the
University Musical Society, and for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Music
Com ponent  fund....................................................  150,895
Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor; for the David G. Dickinson Academic Advancement
Fund in the Medical School, and for research in the School of Social Work fund  15,000
TRW Foundation. Cleveland, Ohio; for Employee Matching Gifts...............  8,266
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor; for the Ann Arbor University of Michigan
Club  Scholarship  fund................................................  7,615
Mary Ann Worobell Estate; for student aid in the Medical School fund...........  7,558
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut; for the Campaign for Michigan - School of
Business Administration Library, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds......  8,563
Asa G. Yancey, In Trust for Family, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Campaign for Michigan
- Replacement Hospital Project fund....................................  5,000




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


355


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Analytic & Biological Laboratories, Inc., Garden City. Three items of laboratory
equipment: for The University of Michigan-Dearborn, College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters
Iris M. Becker, Dearborn. Antique pieces: a crib, cradle, wicker side table and two
wicker chairs; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit. Computer systems-including hardware and software-and services; for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business Administration
Component
Roland E. Ginsburg, Beverly Hills, California. A collection of books and miscellaneous items by or associated with W. Somerset Maugham; for the Rare Book
Room of the University Library
Hughes Research Laboratories, Malibu, California. Various optical items; for the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Arthur M. McGee, Jackson. An Everest & Jennings electric wheelchair with accessories; for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Newport Corporation, Fountain Valley, California. Research equipment: for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Mrs. William Richard, Wayne. An Invacare Rolls power wheelchair with accessories;
for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Irma Schnooberger, South Haven. A Moss Herbarium of 8,000 specimens; for The
University of Michigan Herbarium
Vivian B. Shapiro, Ann Arbor. A reproduction brass chandelier; for the Library of the
President's House
C. Edward Wall, Ypsilanti. 70 books; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Library
Vice   President Cosovich     reviewed    his report on    development and
communications.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Anthony M. Bloch, Ph.D., appointed the T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, July 1, 1985
David F. Bohr, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the Department of Physiology,
July 1, 1985
Edward L. Bove, M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, in the Department of
Surgery, Section of Thoracic Surgery and also appointed Associate Professor of Surgery,
without tenure, in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 1,
1985
Olin L. Browder, Jr., James V. Campbell Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a class in the
Law School
Marilyn Sibley Fries, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
without tenure
Monte A. Del Monte, M.D., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, also appointed the Skillman
Associate Professor of Pediatric Opthalmology, with tenure, August 1, 1985
Reed O. Dingman, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the Department of Surgery,
Section of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, July 1, 1985
Jason L. Finkle, Ph.D., Professor and Chairman of the Department of Population Planning and
International Health, July 1, 1985
Brant E. Fries, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Hospital Administration, with tenure
Robert C. Heller, M.F.A., Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, without tenure




356                       AUGUST MEETING, 1985
John W. Henderson, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the Department of
Ophthalmology, July 1, 1985
Emanuel C. Hertzler, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the College of Arts,
Sciences and Letters, UM-Dearborn
F. L. van Holthoon, doctoral examination in General History, appointed Visiting Netherlands
Professor of History
Kenneth Jones, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a course in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1985
Philip Kerr, Certificate from the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art in acting,
Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, without tenure
Marjorie Levy, M.A., Dean of the School of Art, also appointed Professor of Art, with tenure,
January 1, 1986
Robert L. Minter, Ph.D., Dean of the School of Management, UM-Dearbom, also appointed
Professor of Business Administration, with tenure
Eugene Pijanowski, M.F.A., Acting Associate Dean of the School of Art, Fall term, 1985
Yizhak Schotten, Associate Professor of Music, without tenure
Jurgen B. Schnermann, M.D., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, October 1, 1985
Mark R. Starling, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, August 1, 1985
Amjad Umar, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Business Administration, without tenure,
UM-Dearborn
Ann Whall, Ph.D., Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Paul A. Wilson, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure
APPROVAL OF PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Carl F. Berger, Professor of Education, reappointed Dean of the School of Education, for a
two-year term
Chia-Hao Chang, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, also appointed
Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
John H. D'Arms, Gerald F. Else Professor of Classical Studies and Chairman of the Department of Classical Studies, appointed Dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies for a five-year term
John V.A. Fine, Jr., Professor of History, appointed Richard Hudson Research Professor of
History, Winter term, 1986
Lemuel A. Johnson, Professor of English Language and Literature, appointed Acting Director
of the Center for Afroamerican and African Studies from January 1, 1986 through May 31,
1986
Robert L. Kahn, Professor of Psychology, Professor of Medical Care Organization and Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, appointed Acting Director of the Survey Research
Center for a one-year term
Swantantra K. Kachhal, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, appointed
Chairman of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering July 1, 1985, for a
three-year term
Robert F. Lyjak, Professor of Mathematics, also appointed Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
Frank J. Massey, III, Associate Professor of Mathematics, also appointed Associate Professor
of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
Daniel H. Ringler, Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, also appointed Director, Unit for
Laboratory Animal Medicine, July 1, 1985
John F. Riordan, Professor of Mathematics, also appointed Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
Allan T. Stillwagon, reappointed Assistant Dean and Admission Officer, Law School, June 1,
1985
Victor J. Streeter, Associate Professor of Business Administration, also appointed Associate
Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
Arland Thornton, from Adjunct Associate Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, also
Associate Research Scientist for the Institute for Social Research




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


357


The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Kent L. Hubbell, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Harold J. Borkin, term
expired
Henry S. Kowalewski, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Mitchell J. Rycus,
term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Percy Bates, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice William M. Cave, term
expired
Charles F. Lehmann, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Frederick W.
Bertolaet, term expired
Malcolm A. Lowther, for Winter term, beginning January 1, 1986, vice Donald J. Sharf, on
sabbatical
Charles A. Tait, for Winter term, beginning January 1, 1986, vice Lawrence S. Berlin, on
sabbatical
Kenneth L. Watkin, for a one-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Loren S. Barritt, on
sabbatical
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Daniel E. Moerman, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Gerald F. Moran, term
expired
Wesley D. Rae, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Johannes Tall, term expired
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Joseph E. Johnson, III, to complete term, through December 31, 1985, vice Peter A. Ward,
resigned
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Gary W. Fowler, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice Kenneth J. Polakowski,
term expired
Rachel Kaplan, for a two-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice William B. Stapp, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Proqram
Ruth M. Barnard, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985
Larry D. Nooden, for a three-year term, beginning July 1, 1985, vice M. Raisin Tek, term
expired
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for Theodore K.
Rarnsay, Professor of Art, and Lawrence B. Brilliant, M.D., Professor of
Epidemiology.
The Regents authorized the President or Vice President for Academic
Affairs and Provost to approve any regular tenured appointments that may
become necessary to complete the staffing for the opening of the fall term.
Such appointments will be reported to the Regents at the Septetnber meeting.
Vo PEERSONNEL REP. ORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
James P. Fry, M.A., Computer and Information Systems
Jay R. Ritter, Ph.D., Finance, June 1, 1985
Carolyn M. Sampselle, M.S.N., Nursing, June 1, 1985
Instructor
Paula M. Berg, M.D., Anesthesiology
Thomas J. Colturi, M.D., Internal Medicine




358


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


Christopher F. Galus, M.D., Anesthesiology
Rebecca A. Garrett, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1985
Jeffrey V. Kyff, D.O., Anesthesiology
Sara McCracken, M.B.Ch.B., Radiology
Steven E. Sheffner, M.D. Radiology
David L. Spizamy, M.D., Radiology
Margaret T. Stockstill, M.D., Internal Medicine
Daniel D. Stricaf, M.D., Radiology
Patricia A. Tepper, M.D., Radiology
Visiting Professor
C. Barre Hellquist, Ph.D., Biological Station
Judith P. Serafini-Sauli, Ph.D., Italian Language and Literature
Visiting Associate Professor
Stephen Calkins, J.D., Law, June 1, 1985
Sung J. Park, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering, May 1, 1985
Visiting Assistant Professor
Arthur J. Gold, Ph.D., Biological Station
Visiting Instructor
Sang H. Bar, Ph.D., Radiology
Adjunct Professor
Christopher J. Chetsanga, Ph.D., Biology and Bio-Chemistry, Dearborn, May 1, 1985
Thomas M. Graber, Ph.D., Dentistry, September 1, 1984
Adjunct Associate Professor
Wilson C. Kerfoot, Ph.D., Biological Sciences
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Phyllis M. Patterson, M.S., Nursing, April 1, 1985
Adjunct Lecturer
Stephen A. Guice, M.A., English Language Institute, July 15, 1985
Kevin M. King, B.A., Chemistry, May 1, 1985
Nancy S. Seligmann, B.A., English Language and Literature, June 1, 1985
Clinical Assistant Professor
Roushdy S. Boulos, Ph.D., Radiology, May 1, 1985
Clinical Instructor
Einar B. Tjolsen, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, June 3, 1985
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OF TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Carol L. Collins, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
Arlene A. Forastiere, Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, January 1, 1985
Ujjaini B. Khanderia, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
Valerie I. Polakow, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Adjunct Associate Professor of
Architecture and Urban Planning and from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Adjunct Associate
Professor of Education
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 31, 1985, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Richard A. English, Social Work
Peter R. Grant, Biological Science, August 31, 1985
Associate Professor
Kenneth C. Hill, Linguistics
Virginia E. Rezmierski, Education, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1985




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


359


Robert E. Scheele, Landscape Architecture
Thomas C. Wang, Landscape Architecture
Assistant Professor
Alice F. Andrews, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1985
Frederick A. Birnberg, Radiology, June 30, 1985
Judith K. Delzell, Music, August 31, 1985
Jerrold D. Green, Political Science
Michael L. McLean, Neurology, June 30, 1985
Barbara S. Riemer, Psychology, June 11, 1985
David H. Tilley, Mental Health Administration, June 17, 1985
Julie B. Todaro, Library Science, June 30, 1985
Instructor
O. Anthony Bates, French, UM-Flint
Dana G. Kissner, Internal Medicine, June 15, 1985
Peter Y. Lai, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1985
Lecturer
Julia I. McCormich, Biology, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1985
Grace S. Rueter, English Language and Literature and English Composition Board
Two off-campus assignments, two leaves of absence without salary, one
intergovernmental personnel assignment and one retirement furlough were
reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of five faculty members.
The following retirement memoirs were adopted.
JERE M. BAUER, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, has retired from active faculty
status as of June 30, 1985. He has had a long and distinguished career at The University of
Michigan Medical School.
Professor Bauer was born and raised in Texas and graduated from the University of Texas
Medical School in 1941. After serving his internship in Galveston, Texas, he completed his
internal medicine training at University Hospital in Ann Arbor. He then completed a fellowship
in endocrinology and metabolism and joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 1948.
Following that, Professor Bauer received additional training in the use of radioisotopes at Oak
Ridge, Tennessee.
Professor Bauer's major research interest is in the area of tumor metabolism and he has
worked diligently in that field for many years. He will be remembered best for his teaching and
patient care. He had responsibility for running the General Medicine Clinic for 17 years and
during that time had contact with hundreds of physicians in training. They will fondly recall his
kind manner, helpful suggestions, and practical approach to problems they thought were
insolvable. There are also thousands of patients who came to rely on Jere Bauer for his medical
expertise. He was highly regarded as an excellent clinician who was kind, caring, and
compassionate.
Professor Bauer was also very active in university affairs and served on the Cancer Research
Committee for 30 years, playing an active role in the annual cancer retreat. He has also served
on numerous hospital committees and has been a leader in developing policies for proper
radiation control.
Jere M. Bauer has spent the past 40 years in Ann Arbor, and the many students, house
officers, peers, and patients he has had contact with have been enriched by his presence.
The Regents now salute Jere M. Bauer, distinguished teacher and clinician, by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
WILLIAM    V. CALDWELL, Professor of Mathematics, has retired from active faculty
status as of May 31, 1985, after a most productive career as a teacher, advisor, and scholar.
He received his B.A. degree from Texas Christian University in 1951 and his M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from The University of Michigan in 1956 and 1960. Professor Caldwell came to




360


AUGUST MEETING, 1985


the Flint campus in 1961 as assistant professor of mathematics, was promoted to associate
professor in 1963, and to professor in 1968. He was instrumental in the development of the
mathematics department at UM-Flint.
Professor Caldwell's service to the University, both on the Flint and Ann Arbor campuses,
has been outstanding. He has served on the Senate Assembly, the State Relations Committee,
and the Graduate Board in Ann Arbor. He has served on the Flint College of Arts and Soiences
Executive Committee, the Faculty Assembly, the Budget Priorities Committee, and the Curriculum Committee. Professor Caldwell has given freely of his time to the Challenge Program and
to lecturing high school students in mathematics around the state.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor for his dedicated service by naming
William V. Caldwell Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
DOMINIC DONALD DZIEWIATKOWSKI has retired from active faculty status as of
June 30, 1985, after an outstanding career in teaching, research, and administration in the
School of Dentistry and in the Department of Biological Chemistry of the Medical School.
Born in Chicago and raised in rural southwest Michigan, Professor Dziewiatkowski received
his A.B. degree in chemistry and biology at Western State Teachers College in 1939. He went
on to The University of Michigan, where he earned the M. S. degree in 1942 and his Ph.D.
degree in biochemistry in 1943.
From 1943 to 1946, Professor Dziewiatkowski taught biochemistry at Vanderbilt University
School of Medicine, and then at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public
Health from 1946 to 1948. In addition, he initiated major research on the metabolism of
S-sulfate during these years. In 1948, he took a position at the Rockefeller University in New
York.
In 1967, Professor Dziewiatkowski was named to his professorship in the Department of
Oral Biology at The University of Michigan's School of Dentistry, with a joint appointment as
professor of biological chemistry in the Medical School. In his career at the School of
Dentistry, he served with distinction in his administrative roles as the first permanent chairman
of the Department of Oral Biology and as the first director of the Dental Research Institute.
With the goal of forming closer ties between the basic sciences and clinical dentistry, he
reorganized the curriculum in oral biology. He is particularly well known for his contributions
in the biochemistry of connective tissues, including the characteristics of the proteoglycans and
how these interact with other components in these tissues, such as byaluronic acid, collagen and
other proteins.
Professor Dziewiatkowski is known nationally and internationally for his research and has
published extensively in areas of bone and cartilage metabolism, connective tissue, and the role
of complex proteins in bone calcification. He has been a leader in many scientific organizations, has served on many university committees, and has acted as consultant to the National
Institute for Dental Research, the Veterans Administration, and the Governor's Task Force on
Flourides.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by
naming Dominic Donald Dziewiatkowski Professor Emeritus of Dentistry and Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry.
KENT Wo LEACH has been associated with The University of Michigan since January 17,
1949. Prior to his retirement on June 30, 1985, he was director of the Bureau of School
Services and professor of education.
Professor Leach was born on March 11, 1915, in LaCrosse, Wisconsin. He received his
B.A. and M.A. degrees from Oberlin College in 1937 and 1938, respectively, and his Ph.D.
degree at Western Reserve University in 1952.
Between 1938 and 1949, Professor Leach's professional experience was as a teacher, school
administrator, and research and guidance director in school systems in Illinois and Ohio. His
professional experience was interrupted by World War II, when he served in the United States
Army from 1943 to 1946.
In 1949, Professor Leach began his career at The University of Michigan as a consultant in
the Bureau of School Services and lecturer in the School of Education. He also served as
chairman of the North Central Association State Committee between 1953 and 1956. In 1954,
he was appointed director of the Bureau of School Services and in 1957 became an associate
professor. He was promoted to full professor of education in 1966.
While at the University, Professor Leach taught courses in the School of Education's




AUGUST MEETING, 1985


361


Department of Educational Psychology and in the Department of School Administration and
Supervision. Concerning his work in the Bureau of School Services, he developed testing
programs for Michigan school systems embracing all grades, K through 12; helped initiate and
expand a program of school surveys and evaluations for schools and school systems; directed
the several revisions of Accreditation Standards used by the Bureau in conducting the University's program of accreditation for Michigan high schools and administered the Bureau with this
basic philosophy: the Bureau of School Services is always ready to provide those services to
Michigan schools and school systems that are desired by them but in a manner which would
bring credit and respect to The University of Michigan.
It is respectfully requested that Kent W. Leach be granted the title of Professor Emeritus of
Education.
JOSIP MATOVINOVIC, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, has retired from active
faculty status as of June 30, 1985. His career has been exceptional and outstanding in many
ways.
Professor Matovinovic was born in what is now Yugoslavia. He received his M.D. degree
with honors from the University of Zagreb in Yugoslavia in 1939. After post-graduate education in internal medicine and endocrinology, he became chief of the Division of Endocrinology
and Metabolism at the University of Zagreb Medical School in 1948. Professor Matovinovic
was named docent in 1951 and university docent in 1956. He also served on the editorial board
of a journal and encyclopedia.
A fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital in 1947-48 led him to Harvard Medical
School, where he became a research associate both in the Thyroid Clinic and Diabetes Clinic.
In 1959, Professor Matovinovic brought his prestige and talents to The University of
Michigan to begin a long and faithful service to this institution. He became a member of the
World Health Organization Study Group in Endemic Goiter. Then he was sought as a consultant to numerous national and international organizations on goiter and the nutritional aspects of
iodine. As recently as 1981, Professor Matovinovic was named the Third E.V. McCollum
Commemorative Lecturer in Nutrition at the 12th International Congress of Nutrition. His many
publications also attest to his original ideas and investigations.
Professor Matovinovic was readily perceived not only as a remarkable teacher but also as a
unique educator. He has won numerous awards for being the outstanding teacher in the Medical
School, including the Golden Shovel Award on two occasions. His inspiration strikes a
responsive cord; the consequent devotions of teacher for students and students for teacher are
rare phenomena.
The other special attribute of Professor Matovinovic is his scholarly approach to history; he
transmits historical perspective in both written and spoken word. His article, "David Marine,
1880-1976; Nestor of Thyroidiology," stands as a classic.
The Regents now salute Josip Matovinovic, distinguished scholar, teacher and scientist by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
VII. MEMORIALS
Vice President Kennedy reported the death of Thomas G. Gies, Professor of Finance. The following memorial statement was adopted.
The Regents express sorrow at the death on July 23, 1985, of THOMAS G. GIES,
professor of finance in the School of Business Administration. He was 64 years old.
Tom Gies earned his B.A. and M.A. degrees and completed his Ph.D. degree at The
University of Michigan. In 1949, he joined The University of Michigan faculty as an instructor
of economics. He left Michigan to teach at the University of Missouri from 1953-55, returning
to Michigan in 1957 as associate professor of finance. He was promoted to professor in 1961.
During Professor Gies' academic career, he taught for brief periods of time at the Netherlands
School of Economics, the University of Colorado and the University of New Mexico.
A specialist in analysis of money and capital markets and financial institutions, Tom Gies
served as a special consultant to such government agencies as the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and the U.S. Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve. He also served as consultant for the American Telephone and Telegraph
Company and as consultant to the Financial Information Services Group for Citicorp.



