
OCTOBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, October 15 and I6, I9I4.
'the Board met in the Regents' Room at 8:30 P. M.,
October I5.   Present, The President, Regent Bulkley,
Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements, Regent
Hanchett, Regent Hubbard, and Superintendent Keeler.
Absent, Regent Beal and Regent Gore.
On invitation of the Board, Superintendent E. C. Warriner presented his views on the advantages of a practice or
demonstration school at the University, as suggested by
Professor Whitney in his special communication to the
Board.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the minutes of the preceding meeting, with certain corrections (pages 1036, Io44,
Io64, Io66, Io67, Io68) were approved, as submitted to the
Regents in proof.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board accepted and
adopted the report of Mr. Bartelme, Director of Outdoor
Athletics, recommending the ineligibility of the wives of
students in the University to purchase athletic tickets for
I914-19I5 at the same price charged students. The report
suggested, however, that the question might be taken up
later for I915-I916.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the communication from
Librarian Koch (see meeting of July 24, p. Io42) in regard
to resignations from the Library staff and suggestions as to
salary changes, was referred to the Library Committee, with
power. (For report, see below, p. 8.)
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Health Service was
authorized to give free medical examinations to all entering
students, preference being given, if all could not be accommodated, to those not required to take physical training.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the report of Secretary
Smith in regard to boiler insurance was accepted, and the




2


OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


sum of $224.50 was set aside from the general funds for
this purpose.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Leroy Waterman was
elected Professor of Semitics at the salary of $3000 per
year, the appointment to become effective with the year
I915-I916.
Regent Leland presented an oral report regarding investments made by the Finance Committee, under resolution of
the Board at the last meeting, with suggestions for further
investments.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Finance Committee
was authorized to refund the present University holdings in
bonds of Portland, Oregon, with new bonds of similar
specifications, to the amount of $25,000.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was authorized to place a fence around the socalled Cat-hole.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Finance Committee
was authorized to purchase the Prettyman property out of
the general funds, for $32,000.
The following resolutions, introduced by Regent
Bulkley, were adopted:Resolved, That a certain parcel of real estate, situated
in the City of Ann Arbor, belonging to M. M. Wheelock,
and more particularly described as follows:A strip of land one hundred and two (Io2) feet wide
off the west side of Lot "D," Block 3, R. 'S. Smith's third
addition to the City of Ann Arbor.
Also commencing at the southeast corner of Lot "D,"
thence north six rods, thence westerly parallel with south
line of Lot "D" until it intersects the east line of the first
described piece of land; thence southerly along the east line
of the first herein described piece of land to its intersection
with the south line of Lot "D," thence easterly along the
south line of Lot "D," to point of beginning, all in R. S.
Smith's third addition to the City of Ann Arbor,be and is hereby declared to be necessary for the purposes
of the University of Michigan.
Whereas, This Board 'has declared the necessity for
acquiring certain real estate situated in the City of Ann




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


3


Arbor, for University purposes, more particularly described
as follows:A strip of land one hundred and two (I02) feet wide
off the West side. of Lot "D," Block 3, R. S. Smith's third
addition to the City of Ann Arbor.
Also commencing at the southeast corner of Lot "D,"
thence north six rods, thence westerly parallel with south
line of Lot "D" until it intersects the east line of the first
described piece of land; thence southerly along the east line
of the first herein described piece of land to its intersection
with the south line of Lot "D," thence easterly along the
south line of Lot "D," to point of beginning,-all in R. S.
Smith's third addition to the City of Ann Arbor.
And Whereas, Efforts have been made to acquire said
real estate by purchase from M. M. Wheelock, the owner
thereof, and said owner has been offered a fair and
reasonable price therefor by this Board and said owner has
refused to sell said property for a fair and reasonable
'price.
Nowz Therefore, It Is Resolved, That this Board institute legal proceedings to acquire the above described property by condemnation as authorized by law.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution
was adopted:Whereas, This Board recognizes the importance of the
establishment by the University of a practice or demonstration school and the great benefit to 'be derived thereby,
It Is Resolved, That the matter be placed upon the program of the November meeting, for further consideration
and action.
The President presented the following communication
from Dr. Claude A. Burrett:I wish to offer my resignation as Professor of Surgery, Genito-Urinary Diseases and Dermatology, and Registrar of the Homceopathic Medical College of the University
of Michigan. The above to take effect September Ist.
This action is taken to permit my accepting a Professorship and Administrative office in the Homoeopathic Medical
College of Ohio State University.
I wish to express my appreciation to the President,
Board of Regents and other officers of the College and




4


OCTOBER MEETING, I914


University for the many kindnesses shown me during the
past nine years. I am,
Very truly yours,
CIAUDE A. BURRET.
August 22, 1914.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Dr. Burrett's resignation was accepted with regret.
The President presented a communication from the
Michigan Alumnae of Philadelphia, stating that the sum of
$50 had been collected for the purpose of helping some
needy girl to attend the University of Michigan the coming
year. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the gift was accepted
with thanks.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the title of Professor
Raymond C. Davis was changed according to his request to
read as follows: Raymond C. Davis, Librarian Emeritus,
Beneficiary of the Professor George P. Williams Emeritus
Professorship Fund.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, it was declared to be the
sense of the Board that the taking of collections at religious
meetings in the Hill Auditorium, is inadvisable.
A petition was received from Mary Bancroft, of Detroit, Mich., setting forth a claim for damages to the amount
of $3000 on account of alleged sickness contracted in the
HIomceopathic Hospital while she was in the Training School
for Nurses. On motion of Regent Bulkley, the petition was
referred to the Attorneys of the Board for investigation and
opinion, and it was ordered that the petitioner's attorney be
informed of this action.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board adjourned to
meet at 10 o'clock A. M., October i6.
MORNING SESSION
On reassembling at Io A. M., October I6, there were
present, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent Gore, Regent Clements, Regent Leland, Regent Hanchett, Regent
Sawyer, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, the President




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


5


and Regent Bulkley, who later took their seats. In the absence of the President, Regent Sawyer was elected President Pro-tem. The Secretary presented a communication
from the Detroit Trust Company in regard to a proposed
bequest to the University.
At this point Regent Bulkley took his seat.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the acceptance of the
proposed bequest was referred to the Executive Committee
to pass upon and to report at the next meeting of the Board.
At this point the President took the chair.
The Secretary presented communications from Attorneys Edwin D. Worcester, of New York, and Wilbur L.
Ball, of New York, in regard to the estate of Williston S.
Hough, together with an opinion from the attorneys for the
Board.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the opinion of the attorneys for the Board was accepted as the opinion of the
Board: namely,-that the terms of the will be construed so
that the accrued income before the trust fund has been established in the hands of the trustees, is not to be considered
a part of the estate.
On motion of Regent Beal, the use of Barbour Gymnasium for the State Boys' Y. iM. C. A. Convention on
November 28, was granted.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, degrees and teachers' diplomas were voted as
follows:BACHELOR 0F ARTS
William Charles Achi, Jr.   Flora Ellen Judd
Walter Hosking Allmendinger  Lena Jessamine Krakau
Frank Harlow Atkinson       Carl Downey LaRue
Hazel Theresa Champlin      Agnes Rose MacDonald
Georgia Helen Cook          John Parnell McGuinness
Arthur Dondineau            Myron McLaren
Raymond Wilber Fairchild    Emery McLaughlin
Harris Francis Fletcher     Joe Wood Morrison
Mary Elizabeth Gardner      Clara Henrietta Mueller
Chester Clyde Harbison      Wilford Edwin Parker
Elmer Martin Heider         Walker Peddicord
Thomas Edward Hook          Harm Albert Pilon




6


OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


LeRoy Alonzo Pratt         John Elmer Shambach
Frances Rhoades             Edith May Trattles
Antoinette Cornelia Robson  Eleanor Rosella Villers
Harvey Mapes Rosa           Effie Wheeler
Clara Belle Russell        John Radford Yost
BACHELOR O' SCIENCE
Effie Elisabeth Arnold      Harry Clayton Cowan
Myron George Becker         Henry Eugene McClenahan
Ralph K. Clifford           Stanley Allison Stealy
TEACHERS DIPLOMAS
Walter Hosking Allmendinger  Nettie Elizabeth Hughes
Frank Harlow Atkinson       Lena Jessamine Krakau
Hazel Theresa Champlin      Emery McLaughlin
Pearl Wilma Davey           Clara Henrietta Mueller
Lucy Edgerton Drake         Wilford Edwin Parker
Harris Francis Fletcher     Harvey Mapes Rosa
Thomas Edward Hook
A communication was received from Professor Arthur
G. Canfield stating that on account of military service in the
European war, Assistant Professor Talamon is unable to
take up his work. Professor Canfield had previously been
granted a year's leave of absence. He now requested that
his leave be cancelled and, instead, that Mr. Talamon be
given a leave of absence, and asked for the disposition of the
saving of $700 in salary. On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr.
Talamon was given an indefinite leave of absence. On motion of Regent Sawyer, Professor Canfield's leave was cancelled and the salary of $900 originally voted (see p 1012)
to be paid at his expense to his substitute, Mr. Shulters, was
now directed to be paid Mr. Shulters as substitute for Mr.
Talamon, out of salary originally voted the latter. Further,
Professor Canfield was permitted to readjust matters in his
department by employing additional assistance out of the
remaining $700 of Mr. Talamon's salary, and to save, if
possible, some part of the salary for Mr. Talamon.
On motion of Regent Gore, the resignation presented by
Mr. Charles L. Loos, Jr., Purchasing Agent, was accepted,
to take effect on January I, I915.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $I500 was
added to the equipment budget of the Dental Department to




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


7


provide for the purchase of new equipment made necessary
by the increase in the number of students.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $800 was
added to the budget of the Dental Department to provide
for an additional instructor.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of the Michigan State Normal College was granted for the admission
of its students to the University Hospital without certificate
of inability to pay usual minimum professional fees.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication
from Dean V. C. Vaughan, addressed to the President:Dear Sir:Dr. Wim. E. Upjohn, of Kalamazoo, Michigan, has
offered to provide a fellowship, for research in my own
special work for the present year, of one thousand dollars.
I recommend that this offer be accepted on the following
basis:I. Dr. Upjohn will pay to the Treasurer of the University of Michigan sometime during the month of October,
I914, three hundred ($300.o0) dollars; sometime during the
month of January, 1915, three hundred ($300.00) dollars;
sometime during the month of April, 1915, four hundred
($400.oo) dollars.
2. That Roy Webster Pryer, M.S., be appointed Upjohn
Fellow in Research at $Iooo.oo for the college year to begin
October i, I914.
3. That I be allowed to select one or two assistants
as I may find feasible to fill the place now occupied by
Mr. Pryer, and to dispose of the salary w'hich now goes to
Mr. Pryer, $750.00.
Respectfully submitted,
V. C. VAUGHAN,
Dean of the Medical Faculty.
October I2, I914.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the gift by Dr. Upjohn
of $Iooo for the Upjohn Fellowship in Research was accepted, with thanks. On motion of Regent Sawyer, Roy
Webster Pryer was appointed Upjohn Fellow in Research
at $Iooo for the year, beginning October I, 1914.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dean Vaughan was
authorized to select successors to Mr. Pryer, in accordance
with request in the communication.




8


OCTOBER MEETING, I914


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was authorized to make changes in the basement
of Palmer Ward as requested by Dr. Cowie, at a cost, estimated by Superintendent Marks, at $62.84.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Dr. Cowie
for improvements in toilet facilities for boys on the first
floor of Palmer Ward was referred to the Buildings and
Grounds Committee for investigation and report at the next
meeting of the Board.
Dr. Peterson and Dr. Barrett appeared before the Board
and presented arguments in favor of the establishment of a
department of serology in connection with the University
Hospital.
Cn motion of Regent Clements, it was declared to be the
sense of the Board that the entire time of Dr. Ide be taken
by the Psychopathic Hospital and the University Hospital,
the total expenses for such services to be as follows: Dr.
Ide, $90o; assistant, $600; for laboratory supplies, $I40; for
care of animals, $60. The sum of $1200 was added to the
budget. (Salary, 2-3 year, $Iooo; current expense, $200.)
The matter of an equitable distribution of the income from
charges for outside work was left with Regent Sawyer.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Dr. R.
Bishop Canfield that the Demonstrator of Otolaryngology
be permitted to retain his room in the internes' quarters in
order to substitute for the interne when the latter is away
from the Hospital, was granted.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the gift to the University
of a set of intubation instruments, by Mrs. Alice Kremers,
of Holland, Mich., was accepted, with thanks.
The Library Committee reported upon the communication received earlier from Librarian T. W. Koch in regard
to the readjustment of salaries in the General Library. On
motion of Regent Clements, the salary of F. L. D. Goodrich was increased $150 and that of Florence A. Lenhart,
$Ioo, each increase to begin November I, I9I4. Other
salaries remain as originally provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Clements, the resignation of Miss
Franc Pattison from the General Library staff was accepted
with regret.




OCTOBER MEETING, I914


9


On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the Auditor General be hereby requested
to set aside from the Accumulation of Savings Fund to the
Heating, Power and Lighting Plant Fund, the sum    of
$40,000.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the sum        of $400 was
added to the budget of the Department of Civil Engineering to provide for a laboratory assistant for testing road
materials for municipalities, towns, and counties in the State.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Director of University
Extension was authorized to establish an extension course
at Saginaw, similar to the one being offered at Detroit.
The following report of the Executive Committee was
presented by the President, and on motion of Regent Bulkley, was accepted:To the Honorable Board of Regents,
University of Michigan.
Gentlemen:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held October
7, I914, took action as follows:I. On account of the increased attendance in the.College of Dental Surgery, it became necessary to provide at
once additional laboratory space for first year students.
Your Committee therefore authorized the fitting up, as a
laboratory, of the west basement room of the Dental
Building at an expense of approximately $30.00, Superintendent Marks 'having advised that the expense would be
approximately that amount. Your Committee also authorized the purchase for this laboratory room of two electric,motors at an expense not exceeding $Ioo.oo.
2. On account of the increased attendance of elementary students in the department of Zoology, the increase
being sixty over the attendance of last year, your Committee authorized an addition to the zoological budget of
$200.00 for a technical assistant and of $200.00 for a teaching assistant, it being understood that the $200.00 allowed
for a technical assistant should be added to the $300.00
already allowed for that purpose, it having been found impossible to secure any one for the place at a salary less than
$500.00.
3. Your Committee appointed Mr. Richard O. Ficken,




IO


OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


A.M., as Instructor in German in the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, at a salary of $9oo.oo per
annum, in place of 'Mr. Alvin D. Schuessler, resigned. This
appointment involves no change in the budget.
4. Your Committee authorized the appointment of
Mr. John J. Cox, Instructor in Civil Engineering, to attend
as a delegate representing the University of Michigan, at
the expense of the University, the Fourth American Road
Congress, to be held in Atlanta, Georgia, the week of November 9, I914. This action was taken upon the urgent
request of Dean Cooley of the Department of Engineering,
the meeting being regarded by him as one of great importance and it being in his judgment very desirable that
the University should be represented by,Mr. Cox.
5. On the representation of the Director of the Chemical Laboratory that an increased number of students in
laboratory work made absolutely necessary the appointment
of an additional teaching assistant in General Chemistry,
your Committee authorized such additional assistant at a
salary of $400.0o.
6. On the recommendation of Dr. Vaughan,,Dr. J. G.
Cumming, head of the Pasteur Institute, who by doing work
in the Summer Session has earned a year's leave of absence,
iwas granted such leave in order that he might spend a year
in the Harvard Medical School for special study. It was
found that Dr. Cumming, by his service in the Summer
Session, is entitled to this leave on full salary, he having
accumulated his salary during the requisite number of
Summer Sessions.   Your Committee authorized that Dr.
Cumming's work should be carried by Mr. Judd Brittain
Kelly, A.B., M.S., at a salary of $750.00 a year and by Dr.
Quinter Olin Gilbert at a salary of $250.00 a year. Mr.
Kelly's present salary is $500.00 a year. The change authorized will result in an addition to the budget of $500.00 and
the difference between the amount accumulated by Dr. Cumming by service in the Summer Sessions ($8Io.oo) and his
full yearly salary ($I,400.00), this amount being $590.00.
7. Your Committee made the 'following appointments
in the Department of Engineering, all of them being provided for in the budget:Mr. Frank Alexander Mickle, M.E., Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing at a salary of $IIoo.oo
for one year in place of Mr. D. 'C. Miller, resigned. Mr.
Miller was paid $I400.oo.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914                       I
Mr. Julius Clark Palmer, B.S., Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing at a salary of $900.00 for one
year, to succeed Mr. Frank P. McGrath, resigned.
Mr. Clyde Elmore Wilson, B.M.E., Instructor in
Mechanical Engineering at the rate of $I400.00 per year, to
be paid by Junior Professor Joseph A. Bursley, who is on
leave of absence.
Mr. George W'right, Instructor in English for the first
semester to take tile place of Mr. Arthur D. DeFoe, at the
rate of $9oo per year.
8. Because of the fact that some of our non-resident
students have been unable, on account of conditions resulting from the war, to get remittances in season to pay fees
when entering the University, your Committee authorized
the Auditing Board to exercise its discretion in such cases
in postponing payment of fees for a reasonable time.
9. Your Committee authorized an additional assistant
in the beginner's English History course at a salary of
$400.00 per year. It was represented to your Committee by
the historical department that this was absolutely necessary
on account of the largely increased attendance in the beginner's History course.
Io. Your Committee authorized temporary additional
assistants in the department of Physics, but ordered that
the communication of Dean Guthe upon that subject be
sent to' the full Board, the Committee feeling that the
emergency was not such as to justify it in directing the
expenditure of the amount asked without the authority of
the full Board. The communication will be found under
the head of new business.
ii. The communication from Professor Beman of the
department of Mathematics asking for four assistants in
Mathematics for the current year at the salary of $300.00
each, was referred by your Committee to the full Board and
will be found under the head of new business.
12. Your Committee authorized the addition to.the
budget of the department of Botany of $35.00 for the purchase of nose pieces to be used upon microscopes transferred from the Economics department to the department
of Botany. These microscopes were needed at once and
the additional nose pieces were found by the Committee to
be necessary for their use by botanical students.
13. Your Committee authorized a committee of five
from the Department of Engineering to visit Albion Col



12


OCTOBER lMEETING, 1914


lege with a view of determining upon a combined literary
and engineering course, the expense of the trip to be borne
by the University, the amount, however, not to exceed
$25.o0. The Committee was of the opinion that combination
courses with the state colleges are desirable and should be
encouraged.
14. The Committee felt justified in granting the request
of Dean Hinsdale for the appointment of an additional
assistant in the Homoeopathic Medical College at the salary
of $200.00, the salary to be paid out of the saving arising
from the resignation of Dr. Burrett and the appointment of
Dr. Naylor.
Your Committee begs to add that in its judgment all
of the cases acted upon by it and covered by this report
were emergency cases that demanded immediate attention.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE Co M M TEE,
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER I. SAWYER
Ann Arbor, Mich., October 13, I914.
On motion of Regent Clements, the gift to the General
Library of the St. Louis Edition of Luther's Collected
Works, was accepted with thanks to the donor, Mr. Waldo
M. Abbot, of Ann Arbor.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculties of the Departments of Engineering and Architecture, degrees were voted to the following:BACHELOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
George Winne Ballantine       Nelson Ildo Raymond
Phoo Hwa Chen                 Albert Ellery Wardwell
Charles Morgan Dill           Thomas E. Moss Wheat
BACHELOR OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Raymond Burton Harris         Odell Wesley Smith
Walter John Schaefer          Wallace Edward Vass
BACHELOR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
LeRoy Braisted                Amandus Hillery Hermann
BACHELOR OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Raymond Theodore Bayless       Antenor Rizo-Patron
Louis Wood Hunt               William Robert Webb
Abraham Jacobson




OCTOBER MEETING, I914


I3


BACHE.LOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Gregory George Scrames, A.B., Anatolia College
Gustavus Adolphus Hyde
BACHELOR Or' ARCHITECTURE
Malcolm Gregory Simons
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the expenses of Dean
Bates as a delegate to the meeting of the American Bar
Association were authorized, as provided in the budget of
the Department of Law.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the matter of the electrification of the railroad to the power house was referred to
the Buildings and Grounds Committee for report, including
detailed estimates of cost, at the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the request of Dean
Hinsdale for an appropriation of $I500 for additional equipment was referred to the Homceopathic College Committee,
with power.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Dr. George Irving Naylor was appointed Instructor in Surgery and Clinical Surgery and Registrar of the Homceopathic Medical College
for one year at a salary of $I300.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board declined to
grant the request of Dean Hinsdale for a redistribution of
the $700 remaining in the budget as the difference between
the salary allowed to Dr. Burrett and that allowed Dr.
Naylor.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of Dean Hinsdale certificates of graduation from
the Homceopathic Hospital Training School for Nurses
were voted to the following:Hazel Beryl Rollins       Zoa Oressa Mullilin
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the IIomceopathic Medical
College, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was voted to the
following:George Benjamin Faulder   Henry J. Burrell
Dean Cooley reported that the Crane Company, of
Chicago, had presented to the University a very handsome
and expensive exhibit of the specialties manufactured by




14


OCTOBER MEETING, 19I4


it. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the exhibit was accepted
with thanks.
The following communication was received from Dean
Cooley in regard to the proposed combined Literary-Engineering course with Albion College:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October I6, I914.
The President called a meeting of the Deans Thursday,
March 12, 1914, to confer with a committee from Albion
College in regard to admission of students from Albion
to the professional schools of the University and to advanced standing in the Department of Literature, Science
and the Arts.
The following letter from Professor Clarence W.
Greene, of Albion College, was considered by the Faculty
of the Department of Engineering at its meeting, September 25, and it was voted to recommend to the Regents that
the proposed combined Literary-Engineering 'Course be
approved, the arrangement of the curricula and other details
to be subject to approval by the Faculty of the Department
of Engineering.
September II, I914.
Professor Mortimer E. Cooley,
Dean of the Departments of Engineering and
Architecture,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Dear Professor Cooley:You will recall the conference held last year in President Hutchins's room between the Deans of the various Departments of the University and a committee from the
faculty of Albion College. At that conference you suggested that it would be desirable for our faculty to provide
for the first three years of the Five-Year Combined Literary-Engineering Course and to confer the Degree of
Bachelor of Arts upon our students who complete these
three years of work and   the Junior Year's work in
the Department of Engineering of the University.   Our
faculty voted favorably and our committee has arranged
the courses for three years as inclosed. If you deem it
wise to substitute for any of the courses given in our outline other courses given in our Year Book, we shall be
pleased to make the change.
(The balance of the letter refers to curricula and is
omitted.)
September 26, I9I4. M.E. COOLEY.




OCTOBER MiIEETING, 1914


I5


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the arrangement recommended'by the Faculty of the Department of Engineering
for a combined Literary-Engineering course was approved,
provided that the courses offered at Albion College be approved by the Faculty of the Department of Engineering.
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $55 was allowed
for the purchase of lantern slides to illustrate lectures by
Professor C. L. Meader on Russian literature and general
linguistics.
The Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
On reassembling there were present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, Regent Clements, Regent Hubbard, and
Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Leland, who later
took his seat.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Miss Martha M. Madtson
was appointed as Medical Assistant (half time) to Dr. Elsie
Seelye Pratt of the University Health Service, at the salary
of $300 as already provided.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, appointments in Anatomy,
as recommended by Dr. Huber, were made, and the unapportioned balance of $550 was left in the budget of the
department for additional assistance, if necessary. The following are the appointments:John Locke Worcester, M.D., Instructor in Anatomy,
at a salary of $900.o0.
Stacy Rufus 'Guild, A.B., Instructor in Histology, at
a salary of $9oo.00.
Wayne Jason Atwell, A.B., Instructor in Histology, at
a salary of $goo.oo.
(The budget of May 22, 1914, 'under "Instructor (new)"
allows a salary of $I250.00. It was impossible to fill the
position with an instructor of that grade, thus the appointment of one at $goo.oo is here asked for.)
Harry L. Clark, Assistant in Anatomy at a salary of
$700.00.




i6


OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


Arnold H. Eggerth, Assistant in Histology, at a salary
of $700.00.
John Chalmers Montgomery, Assistant in Histology, at
a salary of $oo0.0o.
William  Henry Gordon, B.S., Assistant Demonstrator
of Anatomy (half time), at a salary of $350.00.
John Augustus Herring, Jr., A.B., Assistant Demonstrator (half time), at a salary of $350.00.
James Floyd Runner, Assistant Demonstrator of
Anatomy (half time), at a salary of $300.00.
Myron George Becker, B.S., Assistant Demonstrator
of Anatomy (half time), at a salary of $300.00.
Gerhard Manuel Thrun, Technical Assistant (12 months
appointment), $450.00.
On motion of Regent Clements, Norman D. Gates, carpenter in the department of Buildings and Grounds, was
allowed an annual salary of $200 on condition that he give
to the University such services as his health permits.
The President presented the report of Dean Guthe upon
the Summer Camp and Biological Station, which, on motion
of Regent Gore, was accepted. Following is the report:President H. B. Hutchins,
University of Michigan.
Dear Sir:Herewith I submit to you a report upon my visit to
Camp Davis and the Biological Station.
I arrived at the Camp Saturday morning, August 8th,
at about II o'clock and left there Monday evening, August
Ioth, at 7 o'clock. The engineers had kindly placed at my
disposal one of the new tin covered houses which had just
been completed and proved to be very comfortable and well
ventilated in spite of the -hot weather during the first two
days of the visit. Saturday afternoon and practically the
whole Sunday were spent at the Biological Station; Monday I stayed at Camp Davis and studied the conditions
there. Some of the meals were taken at the engineers'
mess tent, some at that of the Station. I was received at
both places with great hospitality and found the visit most
enjoyable and instructive.
Both the Engineering Camp and the Biological Station
were in charge of efficient men. It was easy to see that
Professor Johnston and Dr. Gleason were highly respected
and well liked by the students. The discipline in either




OCTOBER      MEETING, 1914                   I7
place was excellent and the behavior of the students made
the 'best impression.  The rules governing the camp life
were closely obeyed and no criticism of them by any member of the camps was heard. A group of Chinese students
aroused my interest. They had their first experience of
camp life, but seemed to have become perfectly accustomed
to their work and to enjoy it greatly.
The Engineering Camip has been established for many
years so that the work there is fully organized and is carried out with admirable precision under the direction of
efficient teachers. The meals at the mess, conducted by the
students, were substantial and wholesome, and therefore the
health of the students was excellent. There exists, however,
a source of danger in the presence of open closets, located
at various points on the hill behind the tents, but not more
than 25 or 30 feet from the nearest tent. Moreover flies
have become abundant and disease would easily be spread
by them unless some preventive action is taken. This condition can be remedied without great cost by the addition of
a tank, pipe system for flushing the closets and an antiseptic
reservoir. The large pumping engine, located in one of the
concrete buildings, supplies the drinking water to the mess
tent on top of the hill and throughout the camp, but is
used only part of the time. The tank of the flushing system could be placed half way up the hill and the water be
taken directly from the lake. Most of the work of installation would be done by the students. The addition of such a
system seems to me the only immediately needed improvement in this camp.
The work of the Biological Station deserves high
recommendation. Though a number of undergraduate courses were given the main work of the station was of graduate nature.  Not only were one-half of the number of
students enrolled in the Graduate Department, but there
were also three teachers from other institutions who had
been allowed to carry on research at the station though
they were not connected in any way with the, University.
I asked everyone of the advanced students as well as the
members of the teaching staff to explain to me the nature of
their investigations and was pleased to observe the enthusiasm which they brought to their work and to find that
the problems on which they were engaged were of importance.
However, I noticed with surprise that the station is not




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914 


a representative Mic'higan institution. With the exception
of Dr. Gleason and his assistant, Miss F. J. Dunbar, all
members of the teaching staff were drawn from    other
institutions; of the 13 undergraduates only 3 were regular
students in the University of Michigan and of the I4
graduate students only 4 were graduates of IMlichigan. I
believe that a lack of interest on the past of our own
biological departments is responsible for this lamentable
condition, and that some of our own professors should be
urged to teach and carry on research at the station during
the summer. An increase of students from the University
of Michigan would naturally follow. The station, according to a statement of Professor C. C. Nutting of the State
University of Iowa is the best located fresh water biological
station in the country and offers abundant material for important investigations.
The mess tent is in charge of a private person. The price
of the board is $4.25 a week and seemed to me not nearly as
good as that given to the engineering students. Inquiry developed the fact that some of the teachers and students were
discontented. During the last week of the summer session
there were a number of cases of intestinal troubles, directly
attributable to the food and since my return I have received letters stating that some of the teachers and students
would not come back to the station unless a change in the
arrangements for the meals.would be made. I recommend
that, if possible, some competent students take charge of the
mess tent as is done in the engineering camp.
The presence of Dr. Stouffer undoubtedly prevented
more serious trouble. In this connection let me point out
that a number of the members of the teaching staff bring
with them their wives, and in one case, children. All these
"attachments" to the station expect to make use of the services of the University physician when in need of them.
Would it not be well, in order to avoid all misunderstanding,
to have the Board of Regents state definitely whether or
not the physician is expected to attend such cases without
charging a fee?    As mentioned above there are also
"guests" at the station, namely, professors and instructors
from other institutions who, in case of sickness, must be
cared for by the University physician.  At present these
people pay for the camp facilities and their board, but nothing for the use of the laboratory. I understand that Dr.
Gleason will propose that in future they pay a small fee for




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


19


the privileges which they enjoy. They should certainly be
required to do so.
I have no criticism to make as to the behavior of the
students at the station. I neither saw nor heard anything
objectionable or unseemly.
Respectfully submitted,
KARL E. GUTHE.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Mr. Draper
for a fire-proof vault in connection with his office, was
granted, the extension to the office building to be made to
the north. The cost, estimated at $Iooo, is to be provided
out of $570 originally voted for hospital equipment (for
lockers) and $430 to be transferred from  the Indigent
Patients' Fund.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Professor E. D.
Campbell was changed to read, "Professor of Chemistry and
Director of the Chemical Laboratory."
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $300 was added
to the budget of the department of Political Economy to
provide for a half-time teaching assistant in sociology.
On motion of Regent Beal, the request of Professor
Trueblood for a change in rank and salary of Mr. Louis
Eich was referred to the Budget Committee. On motion of
Regent Beal, Mr. Walker Peddicord was appointed Assistant in Oratory at a salary of $200, this sum being added to
the budget.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. C. B. G. de Nancrede
was authorized to employ a person to care for the animals
in the surgical laboratory for two hours daily at the rate of
25c an hour, and the matter of the proper care of the animals, used for experimental purposes, was referred to the
Dean of the Department of Medicine and Surgery for investigation and report.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Dr. Elsie
Seelye Pratt for additional assistance for the physical examination of freshmen women, was denied.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law, degrees were voted as follows:JURIS DOCTOR
Fred Hadley Dye, A.B.




20


OCTOBER MEETING, -194


BACHELOR OF LAWS
David Armstrong, Jr.       Joseph Bernhardt Meyers
Smith Beach Atwood          David Cecil Johnson, A.B.
Charles Campbell, A.B.      Spencer Dix Kelley, A.B.
'Fisk University       Wilber Edwards Lamb
Sydney Meador Cook          Archie Webster McRaney
Burton Briggs Crane         Charles Curtis Murrah
Grady Gamble                John Kubler Nece
Frank Clarence Grant        Francis Samuel Rosenthal
William Anderson Green      William B. Stewart
Collier Allison Hizer      Irvin Leslie Wilson
Arthur Lloyd Hooper         John Currie Winter, A.B.
Walter P. Jensen            Lorenzo Kenna Wood, A.B.
At this point Regent Leland took his seat.
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $I200 was added
to the budget of the department of Mathematics (Literature,
Science, and the Arts) to provide for four assistants at the
salary of $300 each.
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $600 was added
to the budget of the department of Physics to provide for
an additional assistant at $600, or two student assistants at
$300 each, and the sum of $400 was added to the equipment
budget.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. Clifford Conklin
Glover was appointed Instructor in Pharmacy to succeed
W. S. Hubbard, resigned, at a salary of $Iooo.
Dean Schlotterbeck gave notice that the Flavoring Extract Manufacturers' Association of the United States had
given $500 for the establishment of a fellowship in the
School of Pharmacy. This donation was accepted, with the
thanks of the Board. Mr. John R. Dean was appointed to
the fellowship.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy, degrees
were voted as follows:
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY)
Milton Jenks Harnist, Ph.B.,
St. Louis College of Pharmacy
Frederick Jacob Kopp, Ph.G.
Detroit Technical Institute
'Dwight Horace Purdy, Ph.C.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


21


PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
Luis Gonzaga Hernandez       Oscar Albert Marton
Clyde Alton Madden           Clarence Alvin Peat
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Paul Henry DeKruif was
appointed  Instructor in  Bacteriology, vice  Charles A.
Behrens, resigned, at a salary of $9oo, and Charles E. Abell,
M.D., 'was appointed Instructor in Ophthalmology at a
salary of $Iooo.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of Dean Kraus of the Summer Session, certificates in Embalming and Sanitary Science were voted to the
following:Christian Levi Berry         Fred Jacob Hoffmeister
J. B. Dormer                 Arthur Ernest Jenter
Leo Jay Dutcher              Oscar Edward Kilstrom
George David Farley          Clarence Elmer Otter
Galbraith Peter Gorman       Frank Archibald Willey
Tyler Dunman Hartwell        Harold Clark Young
A communication was received from Professor Guthe
in regard to the need of additional room for the department of Physics. On motion of Regent Beal, the communication was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate Department the following degrees were voted:MASTER OF SCIENCE
Jacob Sylvester Brown, A.B., 1913
Clifford Conklin Glover, B.S. (in Pharmacy), 1913
Judd Brittain Kelly, A.B., I908
Clyde Collett Leeson, A.B., Albion College, I908
Walter Ferguson Lewis, B.S., 1895
Willard Riggs Line, B.S., University of Rochester, 1912
Felix Wladyslaw Pawlowski, Certificat d'Etude, University of Paris, 1910
'Wilber Irving Robinson, B.S., 1912
Walter Eugene Thrun, A.B., 1912
Walter 'Hiram Wadleigh, A.B., 1907




22


OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


MASTER OF ARTS
John William Baldwin, A.B., Lebanon University, I9II
William Edward Bingham, B.D., Meadville Theological
School, 1913
Lucy Caroline Bishop, A.B., i906
Solomon Jeffords Brainerd, A.B., Olivet College, 9gog
Edward LeRoy Cole, A.B., 1913
Jennie Gertrude Fuerstenau, A.B., 1913
Stacy Rufus Guild, A.B., Washburn College, I9o1
Frank Hendry, A. B., o909
William Christian LeVan, A.B., DePauw University,
I907
Frederick Arnold Middlebush, A.B., 1913
Ivan Packard, A.B., Albion College, 1912
Abigail Pearce, Ph.B., 1895
Ned Rudolph Smith, A.B., 1912
Minnie Snure, A.B., 19o8
David Andrew Tucker, A.B., Parker College, I909,
A.M., ibid, I9IO
Herman John Weigand, A.B., 1913


DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Gilbert Hawthorne Taylor, A.B., DePauw University,
1909
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the requests of Professor Hobbs for the change of title and salary of Dr. Charles
Wilfred Cook, Instructor in Economic Geology, and for the
establishment of a chair in Geography, were referred to the
Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, $400 was added to the
salary budget of the Geological Museum, and to the $900 -position thus provided Dr. E. L. Troxel was appointed, with
the title of Assistant Curator; an additional sum of $200
was allowed for materials and an exhibition case.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Mr. S. W. Hockett was
appointed Teaching Assistant in Geography and Geology at
the salary of $500 and S. P. Young was appointed Teaching
Assistant in Geography and Geology at a salary of $200.
The budget of the department of Geology was increased
$700 to provide for these additional assistants.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914                         23
following appointments made by the Secretary to positions
for which provision had been made in the budget:Sarah Burrows, Social Service Worker at the University
Hospital, to date from November I, 1914, at $900 per
year, twelve months' basis.
Faith Elliott, Dietitian at the University Hospital, to date
from August I, I914, at $900 per year, twelve months'
basis.
John William Baldwin, Teaching Assistant in Mathematics,
for the University year I914-I915, at $300.
Ralph M. McCormick, reappointed Assistant in Dental
Physics and Chemistry, for the University year I914 -I915, at $ 5o.
Frederick C. Daniels, Demonstrator of Clinical Dentistry,
for the University year I914-I915, at $500.
Milburn E. Rice, Demonstrator of Clinical Dentistry, for
the University year I914-I915, at $500.
Elbert C. Ryle, Demonstrator of Clinical Dentistry, for the
University year I914-I915, at $500.
Frank L. Hoyer, Assistant in Mineralogy, for the University
year I914-I915, at $200.
Frank C. Wheeler, Assistant in Mineralogy, for the University year 1914-1915, at $200.
Albert B. Peck, Assistant in Mineralogy, for the University
year I914-I9I5, at $300.
Reinhold George Peters, Laboratory Attendant in Pharmacology and in Physiology, from October I, 1914, on
twelve months' basis, vice Bert Lutz, resigned.
William H. Bond, Assistant to make coal and other similar
analyses, at fifty cents per hour.
Bertha Looker, Second Nurse at the University Health Service, from October I, I914, at $720 per year.
Glen V. Munn, Assistant in Philosophy, for the University
year I914-1915, at $300.
Nellie Louise Perkins, Assistant in Psychology, for the
University year 1914-1915, at $450.
Zeltah Pauline Buck, Assistant in Psychology, for the University year I914-I915, at $450.
Theophile Raphael, Assistant in Psychology, for the University year I914-I915, at $Ioo.
W. E. Lamoreaux,' Student Assistant in the Waterman
Gymnasium, for the University year 1914-I915, at $o00.
W. L. Miller, Clerk of the Practice Court, for the University year 1914-I915, at $Ioo.




24             OCTOBER MEETING, 1914
Mlarchie Sturges, General Catalogue Clerk, vice Lillian Warner, transferred, to date from October I, 1914, at $45
per month.
Mabel H. Chapman, Clerk to the Dean of the Graduate
Department, vice Elizabeth M. Walker, resigned, from
July I6, 1914, at $600 per year, twelve months' basis.
Lillian Warner, Clerk to the Registrar of the Department
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, vice Mabel H.
Chapman, transferred, to date from August I, 1914, at
$600 per year, twelve months' basis.
Louise B. Young, resigned as Stenographer to the Purchasing Agent, June 30, I914. Appointed as of August 24,
1914, as Clerk and Stenographer to the Dean of the
Summer Session, vice Ruth A. Rouse, resigned, at $6oo
per year, twelve months' basis.
John E. Axelson, Assistant Bookkeeper in Secretary's office,
vice Lynn A. Glover, resigned, to date from October I,
1914, at $600 per year, twelve months' basis.
Robert Atkinson, First Assistant to the Director of the
Chemical Laboratory for the University year I914 -I915, at $300.
Bert Arnold Standerline, Second Assistant to the Director
of the Chemical Laboratory, for the University year
T914-I915, without salary.
C. B. Worth, Dispensing Assistant, part time, at $15 per
month.
C. C. DeWitt, Dispensing Assistant, part time, at $15 per
month.
ORGANIC CHEMISTRY
Earl Charles Sherrard, B.S., Teaching Assistant....... $400
VWilliam Robert Webb, B.Ch.E., Teaching Assistant.... 400
Chester Seitz Schoepfle, B.Ch.E., Research Assistant to
Dr. Gorbderg.................................... 500
Nathan Edward Van Stone, A.B., Laboratory Assistant 200
Chester Claire Kennedy, Lecture Assistant........... 200
ANALYTICAI, CHEMISTRY
Lucien H. Greathouse, A.B., B.Ch.E., Teaching Assistant........................................ $450
Harold Edmondston Wheeler, Laboratory Assistant... 200
Edward Robert Young, Jr., Laboratory Assistant...... 200
William Grandin Calkins, B.Ch.E., Laboratory Assistant.............................................. 200
James Wilson Robinson, Laboratory Assistant......... I00




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


25


Thomas Kay Hutson, Laboratory Assistant............ I00
Edward Jacob Lewis, Laboratory Assistant............ oo
Harold Franklin Whittaker, Laboratory Assistant..... oo
Walter IEdwin Jominy, Laboratory Assistant........... oo
Solomon Shappirio, Laboratory Assistant............. IOO
William Valentine Sternberger, Laboratory Assistant.. Ioo
R. E. Jacobson, Assistant in Political Science, for the University year I914-I915, at $300.
George R. Swain, Assistant in Latin, for the University
year I914-I915, at $300.
Harold Milton Lacy, Dean's Messenger in the Department
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, half time, at $250.
Harry C. Barnett, Assistant in French, in place of Earl A.
Barrett -who did not accept, for the University year
I914-I915, at $450.
GENERAL AND PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY
Frank Charles Vibrans, A.B., Teaching Assistant, vice
A. A. Backhaus, resigned....................... $400
Erwin H. Fleck, Assistant, vice D. C. Carpenter, resigned........................................... 200
Edgar C. Britton, Assistant, in place of F. C. Vibrans,
promoted........................................ I00
Perry S. Brundage, Assistant, in place of E. H. Fleck,
promoted........................................  I00
Gurney O. Gutekunst, Assistant, without salary.
Howard J. Rupright, Assistant, without salary.
Frank E. Prentice, Assistant, without salary.
HOMCOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLGE
Henry J. Burrell, M.D., Assistant in Internal Medicine and
Nervous Diseases, for the University year I914-I915,
at $200.
Curtis D. Pillsbury, M.D., Senior Assistant in Surgery, for
the University year I914-I915, at $200.
John F. Blinn, M.S., Junior Assistant in Surgery, for the
University year I914-I915, at $Ioo.
Milton A. Darling, M.D., Assistant in Gynaecology and
Obstetrics, for the University year I914-I915, at $200.
Harry M. Sage, M.D., Assistant in Otology, Ophthalmology,
Rhinology, and Laryngology, for the University year
I914-I915, at $300.
Willy K. R. Voigt, B.S., Assistant in the Clinical Laboratory, for the University year I914-I915, at $200.




26


OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY
Carroll Dunham Partridge, B.S., M.D., Assistant in Bacteriology, vice Paul Henry DeKruif, resigned, for the
University year 1914-I915, at $500.
Carl Cleghorn Warden, Ph.B., M.D., Assistant in Bacteriology, without salary.
Holton Murschemp Lowe, A.B., M.D., Assistant in Physiology, vice. Frank Park Hunter, resigned, for the University year I914-I915, at $300.
Leslie Lee Bottsford, A.B., M.D., Resident Obstetrician and
'Gynaecologist, vice Rudolph A. Bartholomew, resigned,
without salary.
Unity Fletcher Wilson, B.S., Research Assistant in Pathology, without salary.
Robert Wilson Selby, A.B., M.D., Assistant in Ophthalmology, vice Dennis V. Smith, resigned, for the University year I914-I915, at $500.
Harold Stacey Hulbert, Assistant in Psychiatry, vice Heinrich Reye, for the University year I914-I915, without
salary.
Leslie Charles Scully, B.S., Laboratory Assistant in Clinical
Medicine, vice Charles P. Drury, resigned, for the University year 1914-I915, at $200.
Harold deBlois Barss, A.B., M.D., Interne in Surgery.
John Leonard Lavan, M.D., Interne in Surgery.
Harry Migerdich Malejan, A.B., M.D., Interne in Surgery.
Charles Parmelee Drury, A.B., M.D., Interne in Internal
Medicine.
Grady Edward Clay, B.S., M.D., Interne in Ophthalmology.
Ray Alexander Barlow, B.S., M.D., Interne in     OtoLaryngology.
Francis Eugene Senear, B.S., M.D., Interne in Dermatology
and Syphilology.
Carl Benjamin DeForest, A.B., Interne in Pediatrics and
Contagious Diseases.
John Wesley Sherrick, B.S., Interne in Neurology.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the matter of exchanging
the Treasurer's safe was referred to a committee consisting
of Regent Leland and Treasurer Campbell, with power.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, an additional instructor
in English in the Departments of Engineering and Architecture, at $900, was allowed.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1914


27


On motion of Regent Hubbard, an additional instructor
in Architecture, at a salary not to exceed $I200, was granted.
At this point, the Board took a recess to attend the
Convocation exercises in'the Hill Auditorium.
At five o'clock P. M. the Board reassembled with the
following present: the President, Regent Gore, Regent
Hanchett, Regent Clements, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal,
Regent Leland, and Regent Bulkley. Absent, Regent Hubbard, who later took his seat, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Beal, the traveling expenses of
Regent Hubbard from January 25, 1914, to July 31, I914,
amounting to $287.48, were allowed. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the traveling expenses of Regent Clements
from January 26, I914 to June 22, I914, amounting to
$II8.96, were allowed.
On motion of Regent Leland, the resignation of Mr.
D. C. Miller, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, was accepted, with regret.
Regent Hubbard took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate Department, the following appointments to Fellowships were
made:$500 FELLOWSHIP
Miss Alvalyn E. Woodward, Ph.B., University of Rochester, I905, M.S., ibid, I911, in place of Mr. Volney H.
Wells.
$300 FELLOWSHIPS
Mr. Clarence DeWitt Thorpe, A.B., Ellsworth College,
1911, A.M., University of Arizona, 1912, and
Mr. Robert Ellsworth Brown, A.B., University of Illinois, I9IO, in place of Miss Alvalyn 'E. Woodward advanced
to $500, and Mr. William 0. Raymond, resigned.
MITCHIGAN GAS ASSOCIATION fEI,LOWSHIPS, IN
GAS ENGINEERING, AT $400
Mr. Homer Thomas Hood, B.Ch.E., 1914
Mr. Austin Sinclair Irvine, B.Ch.E., I914
ACME WHITE LEAD AND COLOR WORKS FELLOWSHIP, AT $500
Mr. Carl Louis Schumann, B.S., North Dakota Agricultural College, 1913, M.S., June, I914.




28           OCTOBER MEETING, 1914
It was voted by the Board that when an adjournment be
made it be to Tuesday, November 24, at IO A. M.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Secretary was instructed
to get extensions of ninety days of the options on the land
adjoining the Engineering Camp and Biological Station,
with authority to pay an amount not to exceed $Ioo for
such extensions, if necessary. On this motion, all members
voted, yes, except Regent Hubbard who voted, no, on the
ground that the options should be exercised.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote, except as
expressly noted in the Proceedings.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
J. C. CHRISTINSEN,
Secretary, pro tern.




NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, November 24, I914.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io o'clock A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Gore,
and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Sawyer, who
later took his seat, and Regent Hanchett.
The minutes of the meeting of October 15 and 16 were
approved with certain corrections, as submitted to the members of the Board in proof.
The Secretary was called on for a report with respect
to control of bicycle riding on the Campus. On his recommendation, the Board directed the printing and posting of
the following notice on University bulletin boards and in
other proper places.
PUBLIC NOTICE
For many years bicyclists have been allowed the use of
the walks on the Campus of the University of Michigan, though forbidden the use of walks anywhere else
in the City of Ann Arbor. Owing to the increasing number
of pedestrians and owing to reckless selfishness on the part
of some wheelmen, the use of the Campus walks will necessarily be prohibited to wheelmen unless all cyclists cease 'to
disregard the fact that pedestrians have at all times a first
claim to the use of walks. This warning is issued with
a view to giving wheelmen a further, final chance to use
the walks without disregard of the rights of others. No
wheelman desirous of the privilege should himself disregard the rights of pedestrians or permit another wheelman
to do so unrebuked. The rights of pedestrians imply the
following cautions on the part of wheelmen: (i) No wheelman should at any time, even when walks are seemingly
clear, ride on a Campus walk faster than eight miles
per hour. (2) Wheelmen should not ride faster than a slow
walking gait at any "blind" corner or at the Engineering




30


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


arch, or should dismount at such points. (3) Wheelmen
should never attempt to ride on the walks at any time
or at any place where an unusual number of people are passing, as, for example, on main walks between class hours.
(4) Riding on the walks after dark calls for special caution.
(5) Care should always be taken not to startle pedestrians
by passing them too suddenly or closely. (6) Wheelmen
should ride on the walks, and not on the grass beside the
walks or at corners. (7) In case of a collision, the presumption will always be that the pedestrian is right, the
wheelman wrong.
Disregard by wheelmen of this warning will result in
the prohibition of the use of all the Campus walks.
By Authority of the Regents
On motion of Regent Bulkley, a communication from
the Acting Director of the Observatory with regard to better
fire protection for the Observatory was referred to Superintendent Marks for investigation and report.
The Secretary reported that, in accordance with authority given at the meeting of July 24 (see page 1028), a 'ontract for the University printing for the years I915, I916,
and 1917 had been made with the Ann Arbor Press.
On motion of Regent Leland, an expenditure of not to
exceed $Io5 was authorized for the purchase of a fireproof
booth for moving picture machines for use in Hill Auditorium, and other Campus buildings should it prove feasible to
transport the booth.
The Secretary presented correspondence between Cavanaugh & Burke, as attorneys for the Board, and the attorneys for Mary Bancroft (see page 4), which correspondence expressed the opinion of the attorneys for the Regents
that Mary Bancroft had no claim against the University.
Regent Gore reported informally in the matter of furniture for the Homoeopathic Hospital, referred to the
Homoeopathic Hospital Committee at the meeting of October I6 (see page I3). Regent Gore stated that the Committee was not yet ready to make formal recommendation.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $1,500 was
set aside for improvements in the boys' toilet room in the
Palmer Ward, in accordance with the estimate made by the
Superintendent of Grounds.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.




NOVEMBER MEETING, I914


31


Regent Leland reported in the matter of exchange of
safes, authority having been given him at the meeting of
October I6 (see page 26), that he would authorize the exchange of the present safe in the Treasurer's office for
another, the exchange to be without additional expenditure
by the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Bates Professorship
fund was reimbursed, in the sum of $I,ooo, to cover amount
added to Dr. Peterson's salary during I913-I914, in view of
his services as Medical Director of the University Hospital.
Regent Leland reported for the Budget Committee that
in accordance with assurances given to the Faculty when
the budget was made up last spring, the Budget Committee
had gone over the budget once more, in view of the addition
to the University's resources through action, in August,
by the State Board of Equalization. On motion of Regent
Leland, the recommendations of the Budget Committee were
adopted in the following resolutions:Resolved, That in the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and in the academic subjects taught in the Departments of Engineering and Architecture (namely, English, mathematics, and modemn languages) salaries shall ordinarily be within the following limits:Instructors from $I,ooo to $,6oo00,
Assistant Professors from $I,700 to $2,000,
Junior Professors from $2,100 to $2,400,
Professors from $2,500 to $4,ooo,provided that the Board may in its discretion advance an
incumbent of any grade to a salary beyond the maximum
amount without a change In title.
Resolved, Further, That the following changes in individual salaries and budget appropriations be made to date
from the beginning of the present University year:LITERARY DEPARTMENT         SALARY FIXED AT INCREASE
Marion C. Goodrich, Assistant Registrar..........$Iioo.oo  $Ioo.oo
Rosina K. Schenk, Sec'y to the Dean........... 700.00  oo.oo0
Current Expense of Lit. Administration..........  9o 00.00oo Ioo
Arthur G. Hall, Registrar and Professor of Mathematics...................................... 2800.00  Io0. oo
Paul W. Merrill, Instructor in Astronomy........ I400.00  200.00




32


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


Lewis L. Mellor, Assistant in Astronomy......... 900.00  300.00
James B. Pollock, Junior Professor of Botany..... 2100.00  10oo.
Calvin H. Kauffman, Assistant Professor of Botany I800.00  200.00
Henri T. A. de L. Hus, Assistant Professor of Botany........................................ 1700.00   00.00
Walter W. Tupper, Instructor in Botany.......... O1000.00  10o.
Allowance for attendant by hour, dishwashing,
Botany.....................................  50.oo   50.oo
Allen S. Whitney, Professor of Education......... 3600.00  Io0o.
Charles S. Berry, Assistant Professor of Education 2000.00  200.00
Calvin 0. Davis, Junior Professor of Education... 2300.00  100.00
George L. Jackson, Assistant Professor of Education......................................  8o00.00  200.00
Margaret Cameron, Secretary to the Appointment
Committee..................................  900. oo  oo. oo
Bertha L. Beck, Clerk to the Appointment Comm ittee......................................  600o.oo  oo. oo
Louis A. Strauss, Professor of English.......... 2700.00  200.00
John S. P. Tatlock, Professor of English......... 2700.00  200.00
William 0. Raymond, Instructor in English....... Ioo0.00  10.oo
William  R. Humphreys, Assistant Professor of
English.....................................  700.00   00
Solomon F. Gingerich, Assistant Professor of
English..................................... 700.00   00.
Olenus I. Sponsler, Junior Professor of Forestry. 2o100.00  Ioo.o
Parrish S. Lovejoy, Assistant Professor of Forestry.......................................  2100.00  IO0.00
Leigh J. Young, Assistant Professor of Forestry.. 1700.00  Io.oo0
Farmer in Forestry Department.................. 720.00   I20.00
Trving D. Scott, Assistant Professor of Physiographical Geology........................... 1700.00  I00.00
Charles WV. Cook, advanced to be Assistant Professor of Economic Geology.................... I700.00  300.00
William H. Hobbs, Professor of Geology........ 4000.00   500.00
Ermine C. Case, Professor of Historical Geology
and  Paleontology........................... 2700.00  200.00
Ewald A. Boucke, Professor of German.......... 2700.00   200.00
Tobias J. C. Diekhoff, Junior Professor of German 2200.00  200.00
Jonathan A. C. Hildner, Junior Professor of Germ an.......................................  2200.00  200.00
Carl E. Eggert, Assistant Professor of German... I900.00  Ioo.oo
Warren W. Florer, Assistant Professor of German i8oo.oo   Ioo.oo
John Dieterle, Assistant Professor of German..... I700.00  0 loo.
John W. Scholl, Assistant Professor of German... 1700.00   00oo.o
Richard K. H. Fey, Instructor in German........... Ioo.o  100.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914                          33
Richard O. Ficken. Instructor in German.........000.00 oo  oo.oo
Fred B. Wahr, Instructor in German............. 000.00   I00.00
Herman J. Weigand, Instructor in German....... ooo000.00   oo00.00
John G. Winter, Assistant Professor of Greek and
Latin....................................... I800.oo  200.00
Frank F. Robbins, Instructor in Greek............ 1300.00  I00.0o
Earl W. Dow, Professor of History............... 2700.00  200.00
Arthur L. Cross, Professor of History........... 2700.00  200.00
Edward R. Turner, Professor of History......... 2700.00   200.00
William A. Frayer. Assistant Professor of History  500.00  00oo.oo
Aubrey Tealdi, Junior Professor of Landscape Design.................................................  2I00.00  0.00
Francis W. Kelsey, Professor of Latin............ 4000.00  500.00
Latin Equipment Account....................... 250.00     40.00
Albert R. Crittenden, Assistant Professor of Latin I900.00  Ioo.oo
Wooster W. Beman, Professor of Mathematics... 4000.00     500.00
Joseph L. Markley, Professor of Mathematics..... 3200.00  200.00
James W. Glover, Professor of Mathematics and
Insurance................................... 3000.0.0  500.00
John W. Bradshaw, Assistant Professor of Mathematics...................................... 2000.00  200.00
Louis C. Karpinski, Assistant Professor of Mathematics...................................... 2000.00  200.00
Chester H. Forsythe, Instructor in Mathematics.. IIoo.oo  o00.00
Alton L. Miller, Instructor in Mathematics........ Ioo00.00  00.0
Edward H. Kraus, Professor of Mineralogy and
Petrography................................  3500.00  500.00
Walter F. Hunt, Assistant Professor of Mineralogy..................................... I700.00     I00.00
Albert A. Stanley, Professor of Music............ 3700.00  200.00
Thomas C. Trueblood, Professor of Oratory...... 3600.00   Ioo.oo
Richard D. T. Hollister, Assistant Professor of
Oratory....................................  I700.00  I00.00
Ray K. Immel, Instructor in Oratory............. 1000.00  100.00
Louis Eich, advanced to Instructor in Oratory.... I000.00  400.00
Robert M. Wenley, Professor of Philosophy..... 4000.00   500.00
Alfred H. Lloyd, Professor of Philosophy........ 3300.00  300.00
John F. Shepard, as Assistant Professor of Psychology..................................... 1300.00  400.00
Charles B. Vibbert, Assistant Professor of Philosophy.....................................  700.00  00oo.oo
Roy W. Sellars, Assistant Professor of Philosophy 1700.00  Ioo.oo
Dewitt H. Parker, Assistant Professor of Philosophy....................................... 1700.00   00oo.oo
Henry F. Adams, Instructor in Psychology....... 1300.00   00oo.oo




34            NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914
Karl E. Guthe, as Professor of Physics........... 4000.00  500.00
Harrison M. Randall, Junior Professor of Physics 2200.00  200.00
A. Whitmore Smith, Junior Professor of Physics 2100.00   Ioo.oo
William D. Hendersqn, Junior Professor of Physics........................... 2100.00               I00.00
Neil H. Williams, Assistant Professor of Physics  700.00  00oo.oo
Daniel L. Rich, Instructor in Physics............. 400.00  oo.oo
William W. Sleator, Instructor in Physics....... 400.00    00oo.oo
George A. Lindsay, Instructor in Physics......... I000.00  oo.oo
Jesse S. Reeves, Professor of Political Science.... 3700.00  200.00
Ralston Hayden, Instructor in Political Science.. ooo000.00  oo00.00
Political Science Current Expense Account.......  85.00  75.00
Fred N. Scott, Professor of Rhetoric............. 4000.00  500.00
Thomas E. Rankin, Junior Professor of Rhetoric 2100 00    0oo.oo
John R. Brumm, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric 1700.00     00oo.00
Roy W. Cowden, Instructor in Rhetoric........... 1400.00   00oo.oo
Marion C. Weir, Instructor in Rhetoric.......... 1300.00  00oo.oo
Harley L. Senseman, Instructor in Rhetoric....... II0.0o  Ioo.oo
Harold P. Scott, Instructor in Rhetoric.......... 1ooo.0oo  oo.oo
Robert P. Lane, Instructor in Rhetoric........... ooo000.00  100.00
Edward S. Everett, Instructor in Rhetoric........ ooo000.00  oo00.00
Lyman L. Bryson, Instructor in Rhetoric......... ooo000.00  oo.oo
Moritz Levi, Professor of French................ 2700.00  200.00
Charles P. Wagner, Junior Professor of Romance
Languages.................................. 2I00.00  Ioo.oo
William A. McLaughlin, advanced to be Assistant
Professor of French........................ 1700.00  300.00
Rene Talamon, Assistant Professor of French.... 700.00     00oo.oo
Philip E. Bursley, Instructor in Romance Languages..............................................  1200.oo  00.00
Harry V. Wann, Instructor in Romance Languages oo00.00    Ioo.oo
Jacob Reighard, Professor of Zoology............ 3700.00  200.0o
Otto C. Glaser, Junior Professor of Zoology...... 200.00  oo.oo0
Robert W. Hegner, Assistant Professor of Zoology I900.00  Ioo.oo
A. Franklin Shull, Junior Professor of Zoology.. 2100.00   0o.oo0
George R. LaRue, Assistant Professor of Zoology I700.00  Ioo.oo
Peter Okkelberg, Instructor in Zoology........... 1400.00  oo.oo
Grace Powers, Custodian of the Zoological Labty. 6o00.00   oo.oo
Henry C. Adams, Professor of Political Economy
and  Finance................................ 4000.00  500.00
Fred M. Taylor, Professor of Political Economy
and  Finance................................  4000.00  500.00
Charles H. Cooley, Professor of Sociology....... 3500.00  500.00
I. Leo Sharfman, advanced to be Professor of Political Economy............................. 2500.00  300.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


35


Floyd E. Armstrong, Instructor in Political Econom y........................................  IIoo.oo   100.00
Harry Rottschaefer, Instructor in Economics...... Ioo.oo  o00.00
William P. Dies, IReader in Economics........... 250.00    50.00
Warren S. Thompson, Instructor in Sociology.... IIoo.oo   200.00
William F. Marsteller, Instructor in Economics... 0ooo0.oo  00.00
Paul W. Ivey, Instructor in Economics............ ooo000.00  00.00
Robert G. Rodkey, Instructor in Economics...... Iooo000.00  00.00
DEPARTMENTS OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Camilla B. Greene, Clerk to the Secretary......... 900.00  loo.o
J. Raleigh Nelson, Assistant Professor of English I700.00  00.00
William  D. Moriarty, advanced to be Assistant
Professor of English....................... I700.00   300.00
Otto C. Marckwardt, Instructor in English........ 500.00    00oo.00
Arthur D. Defoe, Instructor in English........... o000.00  oo.oo
Edward M. Grinnell, Instructor in English....... ooo000.00  00.00
Jesse E. Thornton, Instructor in English.......... ooo000.00  oo.00oo
George Wright, (or successor) Instructor in English.........................................  1000.00  100.00
James P. Bir.d, as Assistant Professor of French
and Spanish................................. 1700.00  00.00
Alfred O. Lee, Assistant Professor of Modern
Languages..................................  700.00  Ioo0.oo
Edward L. Adams, Assistant Professor of French
and  Spanish.................................  700.00  Ioo.oo
Herbert A. Kenyon, Assistant Professor of French
and  Spanish.......................................  00oo.oo  I.
William F. Hauhart, Instructor in German........ 6oo.00  200.00
Henry O. Schwabe, Instructor in German........ ooo000.00   oo.oo
Walter R. Rathke, Instructor in French and Spanish.........................................  I200.00  00.00
Alexander Ziwet, Professor of Mathematics...... 4000.00   500.00
William H. Butts, Junior Professor of Mathematics.........................................  2I00.00  I00.00
Peter Field, Junior Professor of Mathematics.... 2oo00.00  oo.oo
Theodore R. Running, Junior Professor of MIathematics.....................................  210.00  1.00
Clyde E. Love, Assistant Professor of Mathematics......................................  1700.00  I00.00
Frank H. Stevens, advanced to be Assistant Professor of Mathematics...................... I700.00  300.00
Theophil H. Hildebrandt, advanced to be Assistant Professor of Mathematics............... 1700.00  300.00
Tomlinson Fort, advanced to be Assistant Professor of Mathematics..........................  1700.oo  300.00




36


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


Louis J. Rouse, Instructor in Mathematics......... I00o.  Io00.00
Herbert L. Abbott, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry  and  Drawing...........................  I400.00  Io00o.
Lloyd Force, Clerk in the Engineering Shops..... 80.00    80.00
Clarence T. Johnston, Professor of Geodesy and
Surveying.................................. 3500oo.oo  500.00
Clifton 0. Carey, Assistant Professor of Surveying........................................  I6oo.oo  200. o
Hugh Brodie, Assistant Professor of Surveying.. I6oo.00   200.00
John Bonine, Instrument Room Man, Sufrveying.. 800.00     Ioo.oo
Lewis M. Gram, Professor of Structural Engineering......................................  3000.00  500.00
John R. Allen, Professor of Mechanical Engineering.........................................  3200. 2 00
Henry C. Anderson, Professor of Mechanical Engineering...........................            200.00 2.
Stanislaus J. Zowski, Professor of Mechanical Engineering...................................  3200.00  200.00
John E. Emswiler, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering............................  1800.00  200.00
Samuel J. Hoexter, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering...................................  I300.00  I a.oo0
Alfred H. White, Professor of Chemical Engineering........................................  3000.0o  500.oo
Elmer E. Ware, advanced to Professor of Chemical Engineering............................ 2500.00  500.00
Walter L. Badger, Instructor in Chemical Engineering.............................. I400.00   00oo.00
Edward M. Bragg, Junior Professor of Marine
Engineering................................ 2200.00  200.00
Mortimer E. Cooley, Dean and Professor......... 50  00    00.00 500.
Engineering Equipment Budget............... I1750.00     I750.00
DEPARTMENT Or M:E;DICINE AND SURGERY
Administration Current Expense................ 1200.00   400.00
Udo J. WIile, Professor of Dermatology and Syphilology......................................  2500.00  500.00
Albion NW. Hewlett, Professor of Internal Medicine.......................................  4000.00  500.00
Laura M. Davis, Demonstrator Materia Medica.. 900.00       300.00
Additional Assistance in Materia Medica.........6o.      600.00.
Carl D. Camp, Clinical Professor of Diseases of
Nervous  System............................ 3000.00  500.00
R. Bishop Canfield, Professor of Otolaryngology.. 2500.00  500.00
Full-time clerical assistant in Pathology.......... 6oo   300.00
Otis M. Cope, Instructor in Physiology (Medicine
and  Surgery)..............................  1000.00  200.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


37


Walter A. Hoyt, Instructor in Surgery........... I200.00  200.00
Charles L. Washhurne, Instructor in Orthopedic
Surgery....................................  800.oo  100.oo
Victor C. Vaughan, Professor and Dean.......... 5000.00  500.00
Department of Surgery, Equipment account....... 685.oo   6oo.oo
OTHER DEPARTMENTS
Graduate Department Current Expense Account.. 1200.00    200,00
Edward E. Lucas, Dispensing Accountant in Chemical Laboratory.............................i6oo.oo   200.00
Stenographic Allowance increased from 2 to 34
tim e........................................  450.00  I50.00
Edward D. Campbell, Professor of Chemistry and
Director of the Chemical Laboratory......... 3700.00  200.00
Hobart H. Willard, Assistant Professor Analytical  Chemistry..............................  800o.00  200.00
-Roy K. McAlpine, Instructor in Analytical Chemistry.......................................  1200.00  I0.oo
Joseph S. Laird, Instructor in Analytical Chemistry........................................  1200.00  I00.00
S. Lawrence Bigelow, Professor of General and
Physical Chemistry......................... 3700.00  200.00
William J. Hale, Assistant Professor of General
Chemistry..................................  2000.00  200.00
David M. Lichty, Assistant Professor of General
Chemistry.................................. 2000.00  200.00
William G. Smeaton, Assistant Professor of General Chemistry............................. I800.00  200.00
Floyd E. Bartell, Instructor in General Chemistry. 1400.00  200.00
James E. Harris, Instructor in General Chemistry 1200.00  0oo.00
Lee H. Cone, Junior Professor of Organic Chemistry........................................ 2I00.00  I00.00
Dallas Boudeman, Lecturer on Statute Law......6o.       6oo.oo00
Lawrence Maxwell, Lecturer on Legal Ethics..... 300.00   300.00
Frank F. Reed, Lecturer on Copyright Law...... 200.00    150.00
Wilbert B. Hinsdale, Professor and Dean Homceopathic Medical College...................... 4000.00  500.00
Louise Clark, Clerk to Dean Homoeopathic Medical College................................. 6o00.oo  oo.oo
Homceopathic Medical College Current Expense.. iooo.oo   200.00
Homceopathic Medical College Equipment........ 1200.00    200.00
Marcus L. Ward, Professor of Applied Physics,
etc.,,College of Dental Surgery.............. 3500.00  500.00
Russell W. Bunting, advanced to Professor of
Dental Pathology and Histology............. 2500.00  500.00
Louis P. Hall, Professor of Operative and Clinical
Dentistry...................................  3200.00  200.00




38             NOVEMBER MEETING, I9I4
Nelville S. Hoff, Professor and Dean............ 4000.00  500.00
Herbert S. Bailey, Instructor in Materia Medica
and Clinical Dentistry....................... 1400.00  400.00
Alfred J. Schroeder, Instructor in Clinical Dentistry......................................  1200.00  400.00
Anna M. Young, Clerk and Stenographer to Dean
of College of Dental Surgery................ 700.00   Ioo.oo
College Dental Surgery Current Expense........ 9825.00  275.00
Alexander G. Ruthven, Director of Museum of
Zoology.....................................  2000.00oo  400.00oo
Museum Equip!ment.............................   595.00  1oo0.0
Jane Cochrane, Sec'y to Dean of Women......... 420.00      20.00
Shirley W. Smith, Secretary of University........ 5000.00  500.00
Robert G. Greve, Bookkeeper.................... 1200.00  200.00
Herman Greve, Inventory Clerk................. o000.00   I00.00
Additional assistance inventory..................  6oo.oo  6oo.oo
Dorcas C. Donegan, Clerk Secretary's Office...... 800.00   50.00
Rosa L. Schmutz, Clerk Secretary's Office........ 650.oo   50.00
Phoebe C. O'Reilly, Clerk Secretary's Office...... 650.00  50.00
Jerome Van Arman, Clerk and Stenographer Purchasing Department......................... 700.00  0oo.oo
Robert Howard, Storekeeper.................... 900.00     60.oo
Alex. Schluup, Autotruck driver, per month from.$6o.oo to 65.00   6o.oo......................................$60. oo  to  65.oo  60.oo
Thomas Knight, truckman, per month from $50.00 to 55.00     6o.oo
Alice B. W. Root, Assistant to Treasurer......... goo.oo  oo.oo
William D. Henderson, as Director Extension Service........................................  500.00  300.00
Julia L. Glover, Clerk University Extension Service........................................  700.  oo.  I 00.00
James H. Marks, Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds....................................  4000.00  500.00
Adele Burnham, Assistant in Charge of the Upper
Reading Room, vice Franc P. Pattison, resigned......................................  700.00
Amanda M. Belser, Order Clerk in the General Library.......................................  800.00  Ioo.oo
Esther A. Smith, Head Cataloguer in the General
Library.....................................  1200.00  75.00
Fredericka B. Gillette, Assistant Reference Librarian.....................................  1000.00  oo.oo0
Donna L. Watkins, Assistant in Charge of the Engineering  Library...........................  700.00  oo.oo0
$45965.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


39


On motion of Regent Bulkley, the sum of $500 per year,
beginning with the present University year, was added to
the general pay roll as compensation to Professor Henry M.
Bates for serving as counsel to the Regents in such matters
as the Board or University officers might refer to him.
There ensued a discussion of the needs of the Library
and Hospitals, and the need for a demonstration school.
but no action was taken.
At this point, the Board adjourned for lunch at the University Hospital, and following the lunch they inspected
various portions of the Hospital.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:20 P. M. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Gore,
and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Hanchett.
Professor Filibert Roth, Mr. William Aiken, and Mr.
W. W. Welsh appeared as representatives of the Ann Arbor
Civic Association, and Professor Roth addressed the Board
requesting co-operation for the entertainment of.the State
Boys' Conference of the Y. M. C. A.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Hanchett's traveling expenses from April 13, I9II to July 19, I913, amounting to $374.I0, were approved and ordered paid.
Regent Leland presented the report of Treasurer Campbell for the year I913-I914, with certificate of audit by D.
W. Springer, Certified Public Accountant. On motion of
Regent Leland, the report was accepted and adopted and
ordered printed, as the Regents' report to the Governor of
the State. The report will be found as Exhibit A in the
Proceedings of this meeting.
Regent Leland reported the purchase of $I9,000 of El
Paso County, Texas, 5% road bonds at 99, as an investment of University Trust Funds.
On motion of Regent Clements, the assessment by the
City of Ann Arbor against the University of the sum of
$485.I5 as a portion of the cost of sewers in districts No.




4o


NOVEMBER MEETING, I914


59 and No. 62 was referred to Dean Bates, as counsel of the
Board, for his opinion as to the liability of the University
under this assessment.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolutions were adopted:Resolved, That the Auditor General be hereby requested to set aside the sum of $43,000 out of the balance in the
proceeds of the mill tax of 1914 into the Accumulation of
Savings Fund.
Resolved, That the Auditor General be hereby requested to set aside out of the Accumulation of Savings Fund
the sum of $25,000 into the Science Building Fund, and the
sum of $I8,ooo into the Fund for Electrification of Sidetrack.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following sums
were set aside from the general fund:Transmission Extensions account............... $33,400.00
This expense is for the purpose of adapting
the old wiring in certain University buildings to the modern equipment of the Power
Plant, in order to furnish current.
Tunnel to the Martha Cook Hall................ 7,000.00
Science Building Equipment.................... 5,000.00
General Library Book Fund................... 5,000.00
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with the
report of the Board in Control of Athletics, refunds of the
Out-door Physical Education portion of the annual fee
were authorized to fifteen students.
On motion of Regent Beal, Carl B. DeForest was authorized to register as a part-time student in the Medical
Department at the same rate allowed to teachers enrolling
for part time work in the Literary and Graduate Departments, namely, $Io.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolutions
were adopted:Resolved, I. That the title of Dr. C. B. G. deNancrede
be continued as at present, the title being Professor of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery and Director of Surgical Clinics.
2. That Dr. deNancrede continue to give such didactic,




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


4I


operative, and diagnostic work as he may desire and as the
condition of his health may permit.
3. That the title of Dr. Cyrenus G. Darling be changed
from Clinical Professor of Surgery to Professor of Surgery.
4. That the salary of Dr. C. 0. Darling be increased
from $1,500oo to $2,500.
5. That the surgical work in University Hospital and
all assistants, demonstrators, instructors, and internes in,Surgery be placed directly under the charge of Dr. Darling,
with the request that he consult with Dr. deNancrede in
matters pertaining to surgical work and surgical instruction in the University Hospital.
6. That these resolutions shall be effective from the
beginning of the present University year.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board gave permission for the holding of the Michigan Union Opera for this
year in the Hill Auditorium, provided that such use would
not, in the opinion of the Buildings and Grounds Committee
and the Architect, Mr. Albert Kahn, injure or deface the
building in any way.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized the
issue, provided the same should be without expense to the
University, of University bulletins giving information to the
alumni relative to the Michigan Union.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to Regents Bulkley and Leland the matter of the terms of a bequest tendered to the Regents by a testator through the
Detroit Trust Company.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted an
allowance of $400 toward the expenses of the Boys' State
Y. M. C. A. Conference.    (See request of Messrs. Roth,
Aiken, and Welsh, page 39).
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following degrees
were granted:BACHELOR Or ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Sterling Routt Brush
BACHELOR Or SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
George Collingwood




42


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


The following communication was received from       the
Director of the Museum of Zoology:PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
DE.AR SIR:
Owing to illness I was not able to announce to you before the last meeting of the Board of Regents that Dr.
Bryant Walker has informed me that he wishes again this
year to bear the expense of the publication of the "Occasional Papers of the Museum of Zoology." He has asked
me to continue the publication at his expense and has not
stipulated that the cost be kept below any definite sum. It
is thus only necessary for the Regents to accept or reject
his offer to assist the Museum in this way.
Permit me to add that four scientific papers have appeared in the series, one is in press and another is ready for
the printer. The publication has been well received by scientists, and every attempt will be made to maintain the high
standard set by the first papers to be published.
Yours respectfully,
ALEXANDER C. RUTHVEN,
Director.
November 23, I914.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, this gift was accepted,
the continuance of the publication of the Museum papers
was approved, and the thanks of the Board were extended
to Dr. Walker for his gift.
Professor Kelsey gave notice that Mrs. Theodore D.
Buhl, of Detroit, had remitted to the Treasurer of the University the sum of $500 for the Buhl Classical Fellowship
for the year I914-I915. On motion of Regent Bulkley,
the thanks of the Regents were extended to Mrs. Buhl for
the continuance of this fellowship.
Professor Kelsey communicated to the Regents the fact
that the following had contributed, through Mr. Charles
Moore, of Detroit, the sum    of $250 as the University's
share in the expenses of the American Academy in Rome.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the thanks of the Board were
voted to the donors as follows:Mr. Charles Moore          Mr. R. D. Chapin
Honorable Levi L. Barbour  Mr. Edwin Denby
Mr. A. C. Bloomfield       Mr. D. M. Ferry, Jr.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


43


Honorable Frank W. Fletcher Mr. Clarence A. Lightner
Mr. Charles L. Freer    Mr. William H. Murphy
Mr. William J. Gray     Mr. Elliott T. Slocum
Mr. R. W. Hemphill, Jr.  Mr. William Savidge
Mr. J. C. Hutchins
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board allowed the
sum of $50 toward the expenses of Professor Kelsey on a
trip to the East in connection with the publication of the
various Freer volumes.
Dean Cooley appeared before the Board and presented
the circumstances under which Professor Riggs had been
tendered employment by the Ann Arbor Railroad Company
in legal proceedings. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the
Board voted that the proposed appointment of Professor
Riggs would not violate the spirit of the Regents' rule of
July, I912 (see page 488).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board granted the
request of Professor Henry C. Adams for leave of absence
during the first semester of the year I915-I916 in order
that he might continue his work as adviser to the Ministry
of Communication of the Chinese Government. Professor
Adams is to meet the expense of employing a substitute or
substitutes during his absence.
A report was received from the University Health Service and on motion of Regent Sawyer was accepted for
printing as part of the minutes. It will be found as Appendix B to the Proceedings of this meeting.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board referred to
the President, with power, the request of Dean Cooley that
the traveling expenses of Professor Lorch, while in attendance at an architectural conference in Washington, might
be paid.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board set aside the
sum of $I,200 for the printing and binding of I50 copies
of the Regents' Proceedings from 1837 to I864, which
records have never been published.
The Secretary placed before the Regents an offer from
Mr. J. H. Shadford, of Ann Arbor, to sell to the Regents
the pond from which he has been accustomed to cut ice,
together with certain ice houses and other equipment. The
Board took no action on this tender.




44


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


Professor Lorch communicated to the Regents the fact
that the S. S. Kresge Company had presented to the Department of Architecture a plaster model of that Company's
new eighteen story building in Detroit. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this gift was accepted with the thanks of the
Board.
Professor Curtiss communicated to the Regents the fact
that Justice J. E. Howell, of the Law Class of I870, now
Vice Chancellor of the Chancery Court of New Jersey, had
presented to the Observatory a Pike's telescope, 412 inches
by 6 ft. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this gift was accepted and the thanks of the Board were extended to Judge
Howell.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
loan of $75 from the '94 Class Fund to Albert Hyma.
The President informed the Board that Mr. Edwin J.
Marshall, of Toledo, Ohio, had presented to the Law Library a book by William Shepheard, printed in 1659, on the
subject of corporations. This gift was accepted and the
thanks of the Board were extended to Mr. Marshall.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board formally ratified the action of Regent Beal in signing the University
vouchers for the past months without expressed authority
in advance.
The President stated that the Attorney General had
ruled that the Superintendent of Public Instruction was
eligible to serve as the committee of the Regents for the
initialing of 'the vouchers, and on motion of Regent Bulkley,
this duty, for the vouchers of November, was entrusted to
Superintendent Keeler.
IOn motion of Regent Sawyer, the Secretary was authorized, following the resignation of Mr. C. L. Loos, Jr., as
Purchasing Agent, to add the title and the duties of Purchasing Agent to those of Mr. J. C. Christensen, at present
Assistant Secretary, at a total salary of $2,500 per year, and
to appoint a Chief Clerk and a stenographer in the Purchasing Department, all without increase in the budget as originally voted.
Superintendent Keeler was excused.
The Secretary called the attention of the Board to the
fact that suit had been entered by the Ann Arbor Water




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


45


Company for the collection of a disputed water bill (see
page 993). This matter was referred to the Secretary and
to the attorneys of the Board.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the President was
authorized on proper showing to execute and forward to
Mr. E. John W. Revell, executor of the estate of Octavia
W. Bates, proper release of the executor.
A communication was presented from Mr. H. D. Lee,
Secretary of the Copper Country Superintendents' Round
Table, urging the establishment at the University of an
administration school. On motion of Regent Beal, the
matter of a demonstration school was made a special order
for Io:30 A. M. at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board declined to grant
the request of the Ann Arbor Art Association that that
Association might charge an admission fee for art exhibits
held in Alumni Memorial Hall.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board granted an extension of not to exceed one year on the loan of ~75 made
to Mr. Oscar B. Thiel out of the loan fund of the Class of
'97.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the thanks of the Regents were voted to the American Vulcanized Fibre Company, of Wilmington, Delaware, for the gift to the Engineering Department of a sample board of the vulcanized
products manufactured by the Company.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, George G. Wright,
originally appointed as Instructor in English in the Department of Engineering for the first semester, was appointed
for the entire University year, and Mr. F. W. Peterson was
appointed as Instructor in English in the Department of
Engineering for the remainder of the first semester of the
present year after October 19, with salary at the rate of
$I,ooo per year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following appointments made by the Secretary to positions provided for in
the budget were approved and confirmed:George M. Ehlers, Assistant in Geology, for the University
year I914-1915, at $500.
J. Thors, Assistant in Geology, for the University year I914 -I915, at $Ioo.




46


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


Emmert H. Woodhouse, Assistant in Pharmacy, for the
University year I914-I915, at $200.
Jose H. Hernandez, Assistant in Spanish, increased from
one-half time to three-fourths time, with salary increased from  $450 to $675.  (Under Authority given
Professor,Canfield, October I6, see page 6).
Hale Garner, Stenographer in the School of Pharmacy, two
hours per day, from October 26, 1914, at $12.50 per
month.
A. Bosscher, Attendant for the Dental Library, at $15 per
month, to be paid out of the Dental Library fee fund.
L. G. Hornby, Assistant in Silviculture and Wood Technology, for the University year I914-I915, at $300.
C. NC. Delavan, Assistant in Mensuration and Forestry Library, for the University year I914-1915, at $200.
Fred B. Foulk, Assistant in History, for the University year
1914-I915, at $400.
Harold Ralph Wells, Teaching Assistant in General Chemistry, for the University year I914-I915, at $400.
E. K. Goettel, Assistant in General Chemistry, vice Harold
R. Wells, promoted, for the University year I914-I915,
at $I00.
Nina L. Winslow, Assistant in Zoology, vice A. R. Barber,
for the University year 1914-1915, at $I50.
Harry Cadwallader Fortner, Undergraduate Assistant in
Zoology, for the University year I914-I915, at $200.
Walter Korndoerfer, Teaching Assistant in Zoology, for
the University year I914-1915, at $500.
William Andrew Paton, Teaching Assistant in Political
Economy, for the University year I914-I915, at $300.
Harry E. Hatcher, Animal Caretaker in Surgery, from October 26, I914, at $3.50 per week.
Alfred H. W. Povah, Assistant in Botany, for the University
year I914-I915, at $400.
Mary E. Elder, Assistant in Botany, for the University year
I914-1915, at $400.
Reed O. Brigham, Assistant in Botany, for the University
year I914-1915, at $400.
Harry E. Hatcher, Assistant in Botany, for the University
year I914-I915, at $300.
Aaron Leving, Assistant in Botany, for the University year
I914-I915, at $300.
Carl D. LaRue, Assistant in Botany, for the University year
I914-I915, at $200.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914                         47
R. B. Harvey,. Assistant in Botany, for the University year
1914-1915, at $200.
E. Howard Ross, Assistant in Botany, for the University
year 1914-I915, at $200.
Julius Romein, Assistant in Botany, for the University year
I914-I9I5, at $200.
A. K. Galloway, Forestry Library Assistant, for the University year 19I4-I9I5, at $Ioo.
Robert F. Paton, Assistant in Physics, for the University
year I9I4-I915, at $300.
Edward J. Martin, Assistant in Physics, for the University
year 19I4-1915, at $300.
William de Kleine, Assistant in Hygiene, half time, vice Roy
W. Pryer, for the University year I914-I915, at $375.
K. C. Kerwell, Assistant in Hygiene, half time, vice Roy
W. Pryer, for the University year 1914-I915, at $375.
Harry A. Miles, Student Assistant in the Highway Laboratory, for the University year I914-I915, at $I50.
Narayan S. Hardikar, University Fellow, vice Lewis G.
Vander Velde, resigned; for the University year I914 -1915, at $300.
Ewonda B. Schlencker, Assistant in Clinical Dentistry, for
the University year 1914-1915, at $300.
R. L. Newling, Assistant in Prosthetic Technics, for the
University year 1914-I915, at $250.
R. W. Priest, Assistant in Prosthetic Technics, for the
University year I914-I915, at $250.
Forrest Ray Baker, Assistant in Mathematics, for the University year 1914-I915, at $300.
Harry Clyde Carver, Assistant in Mathematics, for the University year 1914-I915, at $300.
Harold Leontine Harrington, Assistant in Mathematics, for
the University year I914-I9I5, at $300.
John William  Baldwin, Assistant in Mathematics, for the
University year 19I4-I915, salary to be increased to $600.
Russell Donald Kilborn, Reader in Political Economy, for
the University year I9I4-I915, at $250.
Paul Laird Miller, Reader in Political Economy, for the
University year 1914-1915, at $250.
Harry T. Connine, Reader in Political Economy, for the
University year I914-I915, at $250.
William Porter Dies, Reader in Political Economy, for the
University year I9I4-I915, at $200.
Robert Ellsworth Payne, Reader in Political Economy, for
the University year I914-1915, at $250.




48            NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914
Albert Arms Bennett, Teaching Assistant in Political Economy, for the first semester, at $I00.
Vine Burgess Peters, Teaching Assistant in Sociology, for
the first semester, I914-I915, at $Ioo.
DEPARMENT OF ENGINEERING FOR YEAR 1914-1915
Halouk Fikret, Assistant to Dean.................. $200
Donald Abram Smith, Assistant to Assistant Dean..... 200
Carl V. Johnston, Assistant in English................ 400
Clarence Turner Fishleigh, Assistant in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing.......................... Ioo
Francis Test Mack, Assistant in Descriptive Geometry
and Drawing.................................... IOO
Earl Richard Stone, Assistant in Descriptive Geometry
and  Drawing....................................  I00
Charles Franklin Tuttle, Assistant in Descriptive Geometry  and  Drawing................................  I00
Maynard D. Bailey, Assistant in Surveying............ oo
George Moyer Bleekman, Assistant in Surveying...... oo
William Earl Code, Assistant in Surveying........... Ioo
Archibald Charles Simons, Assistant in Surveying...... Ioo
Carl Waldemar Smedberg, Assistant in Surveying...... oo
Albert Norman Laird, Teaching Assistant in Surveying. 600
Clayton Norman Ward, Teaching Assistant in Surveying 60o
David Moses Bavly, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics 150
Willard Marion Cannan, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics........................................  50
George Hobart Crase, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics..............................................  150
Ralph Burbank Dibble, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics..........................................  50
Walter Edwin Lay, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics Ioo
Herschel C. Smith, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics 200
John Henry Bateman, Assistant in Civil Engineering.. 150
Dorothy Tilden Hanchett, Assistant in Civil Engineering 150
Guilbert Carlyle McCamman, Assistant in Civil Engineering..........................................  50
Reuben Benjamin Sleight, Assistant in Civil Engineerin g...............................................  150
James Wightman Follin, Teaching Assistant in Civil
Engineering.....................................  600
Gilbert Watson Harmon, Teaching Assistant in Civil
Engineering.....................................  600
Chester Owen Wisler, Teaching    Assistant in  Civil
Engineering.....................................  600




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


49


Wyeth Allen, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering.... 200
Donald Goodwin Ellis, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering..........................................  200
Edward John Smith, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering..............................................  200
Peter Tazelaar, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering.. 200
Allen Firman Sherzer, Teaching Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering.....................................  600
Clair Goodyear Hoover, Teaching Assistant in Mechanical  Engineering.................................  600
Archibald Ross McLaren, Teaching Assistant in Mechanical Engineering............................  600
Stuart Gordon Baits, Assistant in Electrical Engineering 200
Leslie Edward Delf, Assistant in Electrical Engineering oo00
Elmer Dan King, Assistant in Electrical Engineering.. Ioo
Dudley Alfred Nichols, Assistant in Electrical Engineering................................         oo
Erwin Palmer Bancroft, Teaching Assistant in Electrical Engineering..................................  600
Harry Linn Campbell, Assistant in Chemical Engineering..............................................  250
Ralph Edward Christman, Assistant in Chemical Engineering..........................................  250
Franklin Edwin Ford, Assistant in Chemical Engineering..............................................  150
Harold Francis Wood, Assistant in Chemical Engineering...............................................  150
Paul Liszt Ulrich, Assistant in Chemical Engineering.. 150
Edward DeMille Campbell, Jr., Assistant in Chemical
Engineering, without salary.....................
Benjamin Blanchard Wood, Assistant in Marine Engineering...........................................  200
John Brownlee Jewell, Assistant in Architecture, First
sem ester.......................................  50
Raymond C. Perkins, Assistant in Architecture, First
sem ester........................................  50
Roland Severyne Westbrook, Assistant in Architecture,
First  sem ester...................................  50
Leon Winans Whitson, Assistant in Engineering Shops,
from   November  I...............................  I80
Reuben Erastus Babcock, Assistant in Engineering
Shops...........................................  200
On motion of Regent Beal, it was ruled that students in
the Graduate Department who have completed all the re



50


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


quired course work but who must still finish their theses,
may register in the Graduate Department as part time students on the payment of the fee of $Io per year. This
rule extends to such students the privilege originally voted
to teachers, in June, I912 (see page 465).
On motion of Regent Beal, the following resolution was
adopted:Resolved, That students may register in the Graduate
Department at any time up to and including the first Saturday of the semester. After this day students may register
only with permission of the Dean, and upon payment of an
additional fee of $5.00. This fee may, in special cases of
enforced absence or illness, be remitted upon application to
the Dean of the Department.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate Department,.
degrees were voted as follows:MASTER O1s SCIENCE
Seaton Anderson 'Norcross, Ph.B., Adrian College, I903,
A.B., I907
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
William Willard Taylor, B.S., (M.E.), I893
DOCTOR OV PHILOSOPHY
George Morris Curtis, A.B., I9IO, A.M., 1910
Harry Gordon Hayes, A.B., I9IO, A.M., 1912
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate Department,
Mr. Wright Austin Gardner was appointed to the Whittier
Fellowship in Botany, at a stipend of $400.
A petition was received from various members of the
Faculty and of the student and alumni bodies requesting
the Regents to take steps toward providing military drill in
the University. On motion of Regent Bulkley, this communication was laid on the table for the present.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was voted to
Aaron Chapman Button, B.S.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and




NOVEMBER MEETING, I914


5i


Surgery, Nurses' Certificates of Graduation from the Training School were voted to the following:Georgie Cathcart             Lottie Ludington
Catherine Scanlon            Maude Crawford
Mary Ware                    Lenagene Bordner
Pearl Henderson               Stella Green
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Miss Agnes C. Tennant,
Head Nurse of the State Psychopathic Hospital, was made
Assistant Superintendent of Nurses in the University Hospital, without salary from the University.
The Secretary called the attention of the Regents to the
fact that the University had contracted to purchase from
Bishop E. D. Kelly the following described property and
that interest might be saved by consummating the purchase
as soon as possible. On motion of Regent Leland, direction
was given to conclude the purchase, taking a warranty
deed, and to pay off the mortgage, the total sum required including interest to November 27 being $16,262.69. The
property in question is described as follows:Beginning at an iron pipe monument on the center
line of Observatory Street, two hundred and fifty nine and
39/I00 (259.39) feet north of the intersection of the center
line of Observatory Street, with the center line of Catherine
Street, in the City of Ann Arbor, Michigan; thence deflecting eighty-four (84) degrees oo' oo" to the right one hundred and ninety seven and 93/I00 (197.93) feet to an iron
pipe monument on the north side of McDonald's driveway;
thence deflecting eleven (ii) degrees, thirty-six minutes
(36') oo" to the left one hundred and eighty five and 47/100
(I85.47) feet to an iron pipe monument; thence deflecting
forty-five (45) degrees, 05' 45" to the right, one hundred and
three and 25/I00 (103.25) feet to an iron pipe monument at
the southwest end of an osage orange hedge; thence northeasterly along the line of said hedge three hundred and fifty
seven (357) feet to an iron pipe monument at the northeast end of the hedge, this monument being on a line deflected sixty-five degrees (65) 23' IS" to the left from the
preceding course and three hundred and forty-seven and
40/100 (347.40) feet in length. (The line of the hedge is
located from this line by go degree offsets. The first offset
at 60 feet is o.o feet; the second offset at I31.92 feet is
23.20 feet; the third offset at I83.I4 feet is 25.60 feet; the




52


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


fourth offset at 242.36 feet is 36.00 feet and the last offset at
347.40 feet is o.o feet) thence, deflecting 51 degrees I8' I5"
to the right from the line of the two monuments at the ends
of the hedge, seventy and 24/100 (70.24) feet to an iron pipe
monument; thence, deflecting 103 degrees 31' I5" to the left,
seventy-seven and 46/100 (77.46) feet to an iron pipe monument; thence, deflecting 80 degrees 20' 30" to the left, six
hundred seventy two and 76/I00 (672.76) feet to an iron
pipe monument on the center line of Observatory Street;
thence deflecting 64 degrees. 32' 3o" to the left, two hundred
fifty one and 83/o00 (251.83) feet to an iron pipe monument
on the center line of Observatory Street; thence, deflecting
35 degrees oo' 30" to the left, two hundred eight and
9I/I00 (208.9I) feet to the place of beginning, and containing five and 6/Ioo (5.o6) acres, more or less; also the right
to use the driveway along the south side and southeast end
of said above described land.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that notices should be sent to physicians throughout the State of the
establishment of a Wasserman laboratory at the Hospital,
with the understanding that the cost of such notifications
should be met out of receipts for Wasserman examinations
of patients outside of the Hospital.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board granted the request of Mr. Norald Casler, who withdrew from the College of Dental Surgery October I6, for a refund of his entire fees.
On recommendation of Professor Barrett and Dean
Vaughan, Dr. Sobei Ide was appointed as Serologist to the
University and State Psychopathic Hospitals and Assistant
in Psychiatry, with salary from the University at the rate
of $900 per year on the twelve-months' basis. Mrs. Jennie Smith was appointed as Assistant in the Serological Department of the University Hospital and the State Psychopathic Hospital with salary at the rate of $600 per year
on the twelve-months' basis, and Michael Schaible was appointed as Caretaker of Animals in the Serological Department of the University Hospital and the State Psychopathic
Hospital, with salary of $60 per year on the twelve-months'
basis. These three appointments are made under the action
of the Regents at the October meeting (see page 8) and
date from  November I, I914.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


53


On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
payment of $2,500, on account, to Smith, Hinchman &
Grylls for services as architects and engineers on the Heating, Power & Lighting Plant.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
payment of the balance of $641.70 to Mr. Albert Kahn as
architect on the Hill Auditorium. This payment is to be
made out of the Hill Auditorium gift fund. The total payment to Mr. Kahn for his services on this building amounts
to $13,141.70.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed the
payment, on account, of $4,500 to Mr. Albert Kahn as architect on the new Science Building.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Acting Dean Effinger, Miss Irene Lichtman and
Miss Vera Mildred Burridge were appointed as holders of
the Strong Educational Fund Scholarships of $250 each for
the present University year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board appropriated
the sum of $325 for the publication of Volumes 6 and 7 of
the Clinical Transactions of the University and directed the
transfer of the balance in the account for Volumes 4 and 5,
$I29.42, to, the account for Volumes 6 and 7.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board referred to
the President the request of Dean Cooley for the payment
of the traveling expenses of Assistant Professor W. T. Fishleigh in order that he might read a paper before the Society
of Automobile Engineers in New York City.
The Board approved the following as the schedule of the
combined course between Albion College and the Department of Engineering at the University:FIRST YEAR
Ist Semester               2d Semester
German or French 5 or 4 hours  German or French 5 or 4 hours
English I            3  "    English I            3  "
College Algebra      4  "    Trigonometry         4  "
General Physics      3  "    General Physics      3 
Desc. Geometry       2  "    Desc. Geometry       2  "




54


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1914


German or French
English II
General Chemistry
Analytic Geometry
Laboratory Electricity


SECOND YEAR
4 hours   German or French
2   "     English II
4   "     Qualitative Analysis
4   "     Calculus
2   "     Laboratory Electricity
THIRD YEAR


4 hours
2 
4 
4 
2  "


Mechanics
Advanced Physics
Advanced Analytics and
Calculus
Electives            6 o


3 hours   Mechanics
3   "     Advanced Physics
Advanced Calculus
4   "     Electives


2 hours
3 8
4   "
7 or 8  "




r 7


ELECTIVES
In Civil Engineering:Geology (3 hrs. each semester)
Cultural (3 or 4 hrs. each semester)
In Mechanical and Marine Engineering:Surveying (2 hrs.); Machine drawing (2 hrs.)
Metallurgy (2 hrs.)
Cultural Electives (3 or 4 hrs. each semester)
In Electrical Engineering:Surveying (2 hrs.); Machine drawing (2 hrs.);
Metallurgy (2 hrs.); Cultural Electives (2 hrs.);
Electrical Measurements (3 hrs. each semester).
In Chemical Engineering:Quantitative Analsis (4 hrs. each semester);
Mineralogy, ( 3 hrs.); Machine drawing (2 hrs.);
Metallurgy (2 hrs.)
On motion of Regent Gore, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law, degrees were
voted as follows:
JURIS DOCTOR
Albert Vogt Baumann, Jr.
BACHELOR O LAWS
Harold Hoover Sprigle            Donald Vanderveer
Samuel Rutherford Turner
All the above actions of the Regents were by unanimous
vote.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, December
22, at io A. M.
SHIRLY W. SMITH.




APPENDIX A TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
NOVEMBER 24, 1914
ANNUAL REPORT OF TiHE TREASURER OF THE UNIVERSITY
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:Gentlemen:-Herewith    I submit my annual report for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1914.
Very respectfully,
R. A. CAMPBELL, Treasurer.
CONDENSED STATEMENT GENERAL, SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS
Receipts        Disburse_ments
Balance July I, 1913................................       $  73,4845...............
State Treasurer:...............
3/s Mill Tax, General Fund (12 tenths)..............        I,o29,6oo.oo.........
University Interest Fund............................          38,490.7...............
Special  Appropriations.............................        207,000.00...............
Special Appropriations, Transfers...................             344.05...............
Building Fund (accumulation savings)...............           I27,234.90...............
Building Fund, Transfers..........................    I5.45..
Students' Fees and Miscellaneous Sources:
General Fund......................................         736,031.44...
Special Appropriation from city of Ann Arbor........          25,000.o00
General  Fund.....................................................  $1,703,605.04
Special  Appropriations............................................     320,753.99
Building Fund (accumulation of savings)...........................              6,072.67
Balance June 30, 1914..............................................    96,769.00
$2,237,200.70   $2,237,200.70
DETAILED STATEMENT, GENERAL FUND
Student      Receipts     Disburse-    Refunds
Fees                      ments
Balance July i, 1913..............               $   58,403.39........................
State Treas., 3/ mill tax, 12 tenths.               I,029,6oo.   oo......
State Treasurer, Univ. Interest..                    38,490.7....................
Student Fees (Departmental)............
Literary Department........... $ 132,782.00..$                      5,251.00
Engineering Department.......        96,23................,506.50
Medical Department............        I2,903.......2I.00.
Law Department...............         40877.00......................    1,528.50




56                                APPENDIX
Fees                    ments.~~~~~~~~~~~~~










Dental Department............           26,913.00...............            666.00
Homceopathic Medical College...            4,705.00....................
Pharmacy Department..........             6,813.00....................           205.50
Combined 'Courses.............            2,370.00.............
Graduate Department...........            9,826.80...........
University Extension Dept2,916........0...g.......................      I    2.00
Summer School Literary.......            I2,355.00........................     407.00
Summer School Engineering....             6,100.00.....................        136.00
Summer School Medical........             2,265.00.......................            30.00
Summer School Law...........        5,050......................       20.00
Summer School Graduate.......             3,46o.00........................           290.20
Summer School Pharmacy......               220.00...........................
Summer School Biological Sta...            I,I26.00.......................          36.00
Embalming     Department........          60..................................
366,972.80..............
366,972.80.
Student Fees (Laboratories, etc.):
Barbbur Gymnasium                              2.00......................2.00
Barbour Gymnasium       (summer).             77.00......................          3.00
Botanical Laboratory...........,702.00.........................          35.00
Chemical Laboratory...........           29,150.00.......................          4,499-04
Camp Fees.....................             590.00.......
Change of Election.............             25.00............
Clinical Laboratory.............            40.00............                40.00
Diploma......................            1I2,340.oo........................       I 50.00
Dental Laboratory.............        2,850.00........................            30.00
Demonstration Courses.........            2,520.00.......................       75.00
Drawing Boards...............              300.00..................                  21 9.00
Delayed Election....................................          3.00
Delayed   Registration...........           20.00..............................
Economics Printing............          115.50..................
Electrical Engineering..............534....................      675.00
Embalming Diplomas...........                 6.oo.
Embalming Tickets........................
Hygiene......5,900.00.............591.48
H istology......................,965.00..........                       I58.00
Key Deposits..................         968.00...............           951.00
Latin                                       66.3.............................00
Mechanical Laboratory.........       6,5195.00.........0........                I05.00
Mineralogy...................       573................           22.00
Osteology......................          7300...............                       489.90
Practical Anatomy.............        3,418.0o.................         2I.00
Physics........................          973.00................            21.00
Pathology........................                                                420.75
Physiology......66.00...................                                              3563
Pharmacology..................             443................             2.26
Political  Economy.............         1 20.50.........................           I00
Rhetoric........................           00.00.....................
Surveying......................             170.50..............        156.30
Solid Geometry.....................                                                 5.00. 
Special Examination...........          125.0...........                   25.00
Teacher's Diploma.............              322.00............                      2.00
Thesis.....................................                         350.00




APPENDIX


57


tudent     Rceipts     Disburse-   Refunds
Fees       eceips      ments,,






Waterman Gymnasium..........
Waterman Gymnasium(Summer)
Zoology........................
Miscellaneous Sources:
Anatomical Material...........
Barbour Gymnasium...........
Biological Station..............
Buildings and Grounds.........
Buildings and Grounds Pay Roll.
Bindery........................
Bindery (Pay Roll)............
Contingent...................
Chemical Laboratory...........
Chemical Laboratory (Pay Roll).
Chemical Engineering..........
Civil Engineering..............
Care  of Team..................
Carpenter Shops...............
Commencement Expenses.......
Dental  Supplies...............
Dental (Pay Roll).............
Dental Department.............
Engineering Shops...........
Engineering Mechanics.........
Engineering App. and Furniture.
Engineering (Pay Roll)........
Economics, Printing Fund......
Electrical  Supplies.............
Fire  Insurance.................
Fuel...........................
General Library Contingent.....
General Library................
General Catalogue..............
Graduate Fellowship (Pay Roll).
Graduate Department.......
General Pay Roll..............
Health  Service.................
H ygiene.......................
Hinsdale History..............
Homceopathic Hosp. (Pay Roll).
Homceopathic Dept. (Pay Roll).
Heating  Supplies...............
Homceopathic Hospital.........
Interest........................
Janitors' Pay Roll..............
Keys (Buildings)..............
Keys  (M aster).................
Keys (Engineering)............
Laundry.......................
Lights..........................
Literary (Pay Roll)............


3,856.00
98.00
1,500.00
156.oo
7-4~o
7.40
1.80
458.70
58.82
203.30.50
2,223.29
794.42
50.00
20.26.6o
I98.72
3.00
210.75
12,352.I6
29.63
183.25
1,396.57
1.25
4.50
20.00
1,051.00
I8.40
44,974.87
I,I82.24
39.77
52.9C
830.oc
6o.oc
50.00
7.4c
4i6.oc
2.0C
850o.o
2I.o0
I7. I
2.5C
46,266.64
3,6oo.oz
281.8c
194.0<
45.0(
8o.o
1,416.2:
250.8
I 6.i


81,289.8..................................................................................
).................................................,...................................
2........................,............
I..
O............
2............




I


I..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................


6.oo00............
25.00....................................o...............................................................................................................................................................-.........................................-......................v-*............................................................................
~......................................
~-s. l......**e
~~ ~ ~.        98.oo~~.,...........53~9.,............


I




I


v_


j


-








58


APPENDIX


Student     Receipts   Disburse-   Refunds
Fees                   ments


 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 


Michigan Tree Bulletin.........
Mathematics...................
Marine.........................
Mechanical Engineering.......
Mledical Pay Roll...............
Materia Medica.............
Nurses' Diplomas..............
Organization and Pub. Alumni...
Printing Plant..................
Pasteur........................
Postage........................
Pathology......................
Physiology.....................
Real  Estate....................
Repairs........................
Roentgenology..................
Store Room....................
Surveying......................
Street Sprinkling...............
Science Building...............
Summer Camp.................
Traveling Expenses............
University Extension Lectures..
University Hospital............
University Hosp. (Pay Roll)....
Voucher Check Book...........
Water Analysis..............
W ater  Supplies.................
Zoology........................
Pay Rolls:
L iterary........................
Engineering....................
M edical.......................
Law...........................
Chem ical.......................
Pharmacy......................
Homoeopathic Medical College...
D ental.........................
Library........................
G eneral........................
Homoeopathic Hospital.........
University Hospital............
Summer School................
Graduate Fellowship............
Graduate School...............
Buildings and Grounds.........
Janitors.......................
Bindery
Bindery........................
Contingent.....................
Printing  Plant.................
Forestrv.......................




283.85
9.90
114-50
47.60
60.oo
12.50
58.00
8.05
127.57
3,498.50
9.75
6.oo
1.00
I,204.18
II,762.03
3,442.00
12,171.72
26.60
9.15
112.59
4.43
14.78
I.95
135,12o.66
19.37
68.00
90.00
62.50
12.60


ii...........................
*...........
*................................................................................................-....................................................................................-................................................287,768.84r........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................




-


I
I
I.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................~...............................................................................................(..............................  


1I




i


I


I




334,109.95..................
206,993.52.....................
92,276.99........................
68,470.8I.......................
42,607.22..................
6,380.09.....................
11,937.26........................
26,389.63..................
27,948.58.......................
107,747.20.....................
13,477.53............
45,342.87..............
47,965.35............
8,980.00...............
I,7 8.........................
77,423.54....................
21,889.95....................
3,277.38......................
28.50..................
1,990.20.........................
0.6............


I








APPENDIX                                          59
Student      Receipts     Disburse-     Refunds
Fees                      ments
Biological Station..............       I,89370....................................
Botanical  Garden...............       733.01.........................
Summer Camp.................            55I.........................
$I,150,1 53.34...........
Miscellaneous..................                      553,451.70.
Balance June 30, 914.......................              I58,920.50 
$,862,5'25.54 $1,862,525.54  $ 20,891.06
Total Students' Fees: Departmental and Laboratories...................        $448,262.60
Less  Refunds.........................................................       20,740.06
Students' Fees-net.......................................       $427,522.54
Total Receipts from miscellaneous sources..............................      $287,768.84
Less  R efunds.........................................................          I5I.00
Miscellaneous receipts-net...............................       $287,617.84
DETAILED STATEMENT SPECIAL APPROPRIATIONS
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COI,LEGE                             Receipts   Disbursements
Balance  July   I,  1913...................................  $  948.20..........
From    State  Treasurer.................................     6,,ooo.oo..........
Paid Vouchers.................................................        $  6,86o.oo
Balance June 30, I914............................                            88.20
$  6,948.20      $  6,948.20
'SUMMER HOSPITALS
From    State  Treasurer.................................  $   3,000.00..........
Paid Vouchers........................................                $  3,003.00
$  3,000.00      $  3,0o0.00'
HEATING, POWER AND LIGHTING PLANT
Balance  July  I,  913...................................  $  I9,901.87..........
From    State  Treasurer.................................   193,000.00..........
From   State Accumulation of Savings..................       115,000........
From   General Account (Transfer)....................           23.46
Paid Vouchers..................................................      $278,018.43
Balance June 30, 914............................................               50II4.90
$328,133.33      $328,133.33
SCIENCE BUILDING
Balance overdrawn July I, I913..................................      $    240.94
From    State  Treasurer................................   $   5,000.00..........
General  Fund   (Transfer).............................        112.59..........
Paid   Vouchers..................................................          8,o0 3.68'
Balance  overdrawn  July  I,  I914........................    3,I42.03..........
$  8,254.62      $  8,254.52




60                                  APPENDIX
PSYCHOPATHIC WARD
Balance overdrawn July I, 1913..................................           $  9,464.63
Balance overdrawn June 30, 1914....................... $      9,464.63..........
$  9,464.63      $  9,464.63
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAL
From    City  of  Ann  Arbor..............................  $  25,000.0..........
Paid  Vouchers..................................................      $  24,861.88
Balance June 30, 1914.................................            38.12
$ 25,000.00      $ 25,000.00
DETAILED STATEMENT BUILDING ACCOUNT
(ACCUMULATION O0 SAVINGS)
Oven and Elevator                                         Receipts  Disbursements
Balance  July   I,  I9I3...................~...............  $  94.82.........
Balance June 30, I914..................................           $    94.82
$    94.82      $   94.82
Storehouse and Shops
Balance  July,  19 3.....................................  $   820.48.........
From  State Treasurer..........................     1,500.00.
Paid   Vouchers...................................................      $  2,313.91
Balance  June  30,  I914.........................................            6.57
$ 2,320.48      $ 2,3120.48
Fire Protection System
Balance overdrawn July I, I913...................................           $    64.I3
From    State  Treasurer...................................  $  4,034.90.........
Paid  Vouchers..........................................                  $  3,970.77
$ 4,034.90      $ 4,034.90
Hill Auditoriunm
Balance July I, 1913................................. $ 3,085.09.........
From   State Treasurer...................................      6,700..........
From General Fund (Transfer).........................             I5.45.........
Paid   V ouchers...................................................       $  9;787.99
Balance  June  30,  I914............................................           2.55
$ 9,800.54      $ 9,800.54
SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS
SUMMARY o0 BALANCES, JUNE 30, 1914
Psychopathic Ward overdraft............................ $ 9,464.63.........
Science Building overdraft..............................       3,142.03      $I2,6o6.66
Credit Balances
Homoeopathic Medical College........................... $         88.20.........
Oven and Elevator.....................................            94.82.........
Heating, Power and Lighting Plant......................  50,II4.90.........
Storehouse  and  Shops...................................         6.57.........
Hill Auditorium......................................          12.55.
Contagious Diseases Hospital............................  138.12.........
Balance  June  30,  914.............................................     37,84'8.50
$50,455.I6      $50,455.I6
Pay Roll Homceopathic Medical College General Fund....        $II,937.26.........
Pay Roll Homoeopathic Medical College Special Account..         6,86o.oo      $I8,797.26




APPENDIX


TABUI ATED STATIMENT (DETAIED)
Amount                Income              Amount
NAME            in Fund   Interesit or Contribu-  Expendi-  in Fund,July I, 1913  Rentals  tions     tures   1une 30, 'I4


Alumni Memorial Bid....
American Institute of
Architecture.........
Albert Kahn Scholarship
in Architecture........
American Academy in
Rome.................
A. M. Todd Prize Fund..
Alice Freeman Palmer...
Allopathic Hospital Fund.
American Schoot at
Athens................
Angelina Bradford Whittier Botany Fellowship.
Ann Arbor Branch Collegiate Alumnae.......
Acme White Lead and
Color Works Fellowship
Anna M. Chandler
Scholarship...........
Bates Professorship Fund
Bursian Gesellschaft
Library...............
Babcock Scholarship.....
Buhl Classical Fellowship.
Btuhl Law Library.......
Ben Greet Dramatic Fund
Bates (Octavia) Law
Library...............
Coolidge Fund (Lelia)...
Carl Schmidt Fellowship.
Carnegie Fund Advancement of Teaching....
Class of '94 Scholarship..
Class of '97 Scholarship..
Class of '98 Scholarship..
Class of '99 (Law)
Scholarship............
Carl Brown Fellowship...
Class of 1914 Engineering
Loan Fund...........
Class of 1903 Memorial..
Class of 1876 Scholarship.
Class of 1913 (Law)
Scholarship............
Class of I980 (Medical)
Scholarship...........
Class of 1914 (Literary)
Loan Fund...........
Covl Library Fund.......


I


$


21.6I


I


40.00
100.00
2,786.89
2,149.23
40.00
4,116.26
307. I2
I..........
1,029.50
I44,328.59


I
I


*........
5,286.43
221.30
39.13
72.27
e.~.......
54.89
2,862.74i
268.71
489.74
42.08


I


$


1.09


i.
i


55.00
240.00..........
952.40
200.00


<


55.00


l


~..........


I47.50
III.39
212.73
5.00


$*




55.00
250.00
77.35
200.00
40.00


i.


250.00
500.00.


500.00


53.65.................
7,391.73...........  8,873.27


268.95
I9.46.75
2.29
175.00
57.31............
138.20
13.o6
14.33




50.00
6OO.0o.12
97.32
14,000.00
1,500.00
300.00
12,420.00.........


i


2.63
250.0C
720.OC
40.0(
I70.o0
38.2(
354.-8


55.00


I
I,
3
3
I
5
3


30.00
100.00
3,886.79
2,I83.27
40.00
4,288.99
562.12


1,o83.I5
I42,847.05
47.37
5,305.38
120.76.........
1.85
14,175.00
I,9519.05...........


22.70........


I2,420.C..........


I...22;oooo:


202.23
o...........




I


II.55
I3.03
1.58
I4.00!






400.00
20.00
250.00




3,000.94
281.77
504.07
42.30
I0,000.00
400.00
233.78
263.03
275.06
514.00
700.00
0, 179.49


30I.7'


I


28.21


500.00.............0,6.88
10,.6.88




I


L'rkn rw.


I..* 7..........I  y0. e..........
5.23.85..........  701.2-,   " "   ''   "   '''I..... ~ ~ --
















62


APPENDIX


I       IA


NAME              11u
*Jul
DeCou Memorial...........
Exhibit Case ('Medical
Books)................
Emma J. Cole Fellowsthip.
Ford-Messer Fund.....
Fred'k Stearns & Co.,
Pharmacy Fellowship...
Gas Association.........
Goethe Fund...........
Good Government Club...
Hill Auditorium.........
Homoeopathic Hospital...
Homoeopathic Hospital
Interest...............
Henry Strong Educational,Scholarship...........
James B. Angell Fund....
Lamont Refractor Fund..
Lucinda Hinsdale Stone
Loan Fund............
Leave of Absence Trust
Fund..................
Mary Furnum Bequest...
Morris Alumni Fund....
Music Hall Fund........
Marine Biological Fund..
Morris Philosophy
Fellowship..............
Morris Philosophy
Library...............
Motor Boat Biological
'Station................
Mortar Board Loan
Scholarship............
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. I...........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. II..........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. III.........
Mich. Studies H'umanistic
'Series Vol. IV........
M'ich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. VI.........
Mich. Studies Humanis'tic,Series Vol. VII........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. VIII.......
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. IX.........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
S'eries  Vol. X.........


Lmount   I              ncome              Amount
1 Fund   Interest or Contribu- Expendi-    in Fund
y I, 1913  Rentals     tions      tures   Jue 30, '14,:    t        u   r   e  s     'une 30, 'I4


Io


23.14
I7,20I. 1
20,685.05
299.I6
11.22
414.06
1,057.66
17,66I.86
2,525.22
445.99
7,60o.53
175.38
7,228.45
3,116.6o
I,041.60
4,835.19
2,028.61
50.00
171.86
1.09
6o.00
4.86
5.30.54
790.17
1,062.64
I5.66
12.35
21.51
55.19
358.68
o...........


I


100.33
406.68
281.3c..,
I.
8.
S~


4$@~.OO.001.........I.........Ij..........


I,100.00
1,450.59
48,069.08
8oo.oc
286.6c
i,3o6.5(
50.01
125.01
350.0


0
0.1.8
)i


500.00
1,.38.30


1,153.99
I'6,074.03
46,266.64
800o.o
I59.34


3
o
3
07


54.3'
253.51
Io5.8l


15.7(
i.6


I,o97.6c
50.01
125.0
56.0
786.4


48.00
23.68
I7,491.3'1
20,709.39
314.82
69.58
435.57
1,112.85
3,397.10
4,327.66
546.32
8,294.86
16.o4
7,509.75
3,325.50
1,095.95
5,088.77
2,134.49
50.00
481.62
I.09
6i.68
11.27
21.41
7.77
22.71
36.41
1,667.52
15.24
72.53
21I.57


6.4
802.5...........


4.46...........


3.2


I.........




I


8.28..........




I


I,


12.08..........,717.28       83.24
9.20.
100.53.
21.57......


I


14.43.........
24.33,....................     133.00
6.04..........
64.73      92-73.....................






APPENDIX


63


[


NAMEt
Jt
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. XII.......
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. XIII.....
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Latin and Greek.......
Mich. Studies Historical
Series Vol. I...........
Mich. Studies Historical
Series Vol. II........
Mich. Studies Historical
Series Vol. III.....
Mather Classical
Fellowship.............
Menorah Prizes.........
Newton Van Der Veer
Loan Fund...........
Northern Peninsular Zoo
Work.................
Observatory Library.
Publication Fac. of
Gospels MMS.........
Palmer Memorial Free
Bed..................
Parke Davis & Co.......
Peter White Fellowship
American Hist.
Peter White Classical
Fellowship.............
Peter White Medical
Liibrary.
Phillips Scholarship.
Parthenon Frieze.
Philo Parson Fund......
Prescott Memorial......
Pediatric Fund...
Prize Advertising
Scholarship.
Saginaw Valley Alumnae
Association.
Special Latin.
Students' Lecture Ass'n..
Seth Harrison Fund.
Special Lecture on Vocational Guidance........
Smith, Hinchman &
Grylls Scholarship.
Transportation Fund....
Treadwell Fund.
Tappan Memorial.
University Hospital
Trust Account 


Amount                 Income                Amount
in Fund    Interest or Contribbu-  Expendi-  in Fund
uly I, 1913 I Rentals  - tions      tures,  une 30, '14
l.~ Inom 




46.0o..........        78I.25.......................        25.00
14.35.............       97.21
157.29............      38-94


I --


706.15


25.00


I,.


27.27


121.10...........
184.29
196.23
I7.93
I.3
I00.00


9.oo


548.86
548.86


\'


200.00
23.94
128.78


15,87I.90
50.o00
I193.8I
I.56
24-37
2,OI7.34
38.77
I69.5I
I5.04
25-73
351.98
5.89
1,638.59
30,734.05.......... I.. 




5.85


1.21
80o5.5:...2...................


9.I2.3c.6;
103.4(
2.0(
8.5..4:
1.4(


2.
7..
0
2.
3
K
7
8
0
0
io
8


17.93
42.89
300.00
150.00
1'8.55


5,8.98.o,..............


3.
3 
0 I.
0..
O
8


I


200.0c
187.7(


25.15


vI


793.15.........


573.26


I................ I


I.........
50.58
300.00
50o.oo00




15,884.27
50.00
202.93
II.86
25.04
2,070.83
40.77
I78.06
15.46
52.13............................
25.0(


50.00.................. 


l


500.0


5o0.c


o0


3.4
49.9
I,560.2


5.60
I, 700.00............
838.77
36.78
3,541.93,4.487.7I


I


854.6
185.4


50.0
I00.0..... 3...
33Io.
IzT,.7I8..


~ o
~ o
~ o. 


355.46.29
i,688.56
30,5194-33
5o.00
100.00
838.77
91.38
4,057-33
17.474. 5z4


I.1,6,7q3I. 


I....






64                                APPENDIX
Amount                    Income              Amount
NAME              in Fund    Interest or Contribu-  Expendi-    in Fund
July I, I9I3  Rentals      tions      tures   June 30, 'I4
University Hospital
'Interest Account......      397.62       332.1;4..........    328.49     401.27
Woodward Ave. Lease...          492.51..........     2,500.08   1,937.40   I,055.19
Warren Book Fund.....          IO6.58         5.55................    II2.13
Walter Crane...........       2,723. I8      74.65   1,922.23   1,3I1.18   3,408.88
*Walter 'Crane Property
Account...............     I0,454.47      652.39...........     61I.05  10,495.8I
W arner  Fund...........        649           3I...................6.8
Williams Professorship..      I4,625.88      753.29   2, II.6I..........  I7,490.78
*Williams Professorship
Property Account......     I4,881.68      761.6I...........  2,I I.6I  I3,531.68
Women's Gymnasium...      129.49         6.74........2.......      136.23
Women's Professorship
Fund..................    19,252.31    1,005.12.....................  20,257.43
Webster Scholarship.....      1,310.30       74.62....................   1,384.92
Total..................  $389,096.43  $I9,254.92 $256,687.27 $240,735.84. $424,302.78
GIFT AND TRUST FUNDS
Under this head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents have received from time to time from benefactors for special purposes. The new accounts
opened during the year are, Bursian Gesellschaft Library, Octavia Bates Law Library,
Carl Brown Fellowship, Engineering Class of I914 Loan Fund, I914 Literary Class
Loan Fund, Mather Classical Fellowship, Menorah Prize, Prize Advertising Scholarship, Special Lecture on Vocational Guidance, and DeCou Memorial.
Condensed Statement
Total Funds July I, 1913................................ $389,096.43
Contributions...........................................  256,687.27
Interest and Rentals.....................................  19,254.92
$665,038.62
Expenditures...........................................  $240,735.84.
Balance in Funds June 30, I914......................... 424,302.78
$665,038.62
INVESTMENT OF TRUSIT FUNDS
M ortgages..............................................$  77,650 o.0
Notes (Students' notes).................................   6,562.02
Apartment House (property).............................  3,I0000
Properties (Union Trust-Williams)....................     I3,531.68
Properties (Union Trust-Crane).......................     10,495.81
Real  Estate..............................................  6,500.00
Contracts...............................................  4,703.65
Bank and Trust Companies.............................     76,154.62
Premium...............................................   3,105.00
Bonds...................................................  212,500.00
Total...............................................$424,302.78


* See Appendices.




APPENDIX                                      65
APPENDIX A
WILLIAMS PROFESSORSHIP FUND (PROPERTY ACCOUNT)
This is in the hands of the Union Trust Co. for management and the summary of
their report is as follows:
Real Estate Mortgages....................................... $12,025.00
Real Estate                                                    I,5o6.68  $I3,531.68
Contra
Total amount in valuation at last report, June I6, I913.......... $I4,881.68
Net gain in valuation for year ending June I6, I914............  761.6I
$I5,643.29
Less payment to U. of M. Treasurer..........................  2,111.61  $I3,531.68
APPENDIX B
WALTER CRANE PROPERTY FUND (PROPERTY ACCOUNT)
This is in the hands of the Union Trust Co. for management and the summary of
the report is as follows:
Land Contracts on hand June i6, I914....................... $o,49.81    $IO,495.8I
Contra
Total amount in valuation on hand June I6, I913............... $II,765.65
Net gain for year ending June I6, I914.........................  652.39
$12,418.04
Less payment to U. of M. Treasurer.......................... 1,922.23   $IO,495.8I




APPENDIX B TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS NOVEMBER 24, 1914
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICE STATISTICAL REPORT
FOR YEAR I913-I914.
INDIVIDUAL STUDENTS TREATED
MEN        WOMEN        TOTAL
Regular Session..................3464              420
Summer Session.............       268          8i
3732         501         4233,OI'FICm  CALLS
MEN        WOMEN        TOTAL
Regular Session..............I388I             2380
Summer Session............... 1604            385
I5485        2765        18250
OUTSIDE CALLS
Regular Session............................. 406
Sum  m er  Session....................................        19
Total............................................ 425.STATISTICS BY DEPARTMENTS                                      MEN
Literary............................................. 1878
Engineers...........................................1095
Law s...............................................      218
Dental.............................................   86
M edical.............................................       56
Forestry.............................................   49
Pharmacy..........................        44
Homceopathic............................    38
Total........................................ 3464
WOMEN
L iterary.............................................     396
*G raduate...........................................       13
M edical.............................................       ii
Total..................................  420




68


APPENDIX


REPORT BY CLASSES                              MEN
Freshmen................................  9oS
Sophom ores..............................  718
Juniors................................... 970
Seniors................................... 768
G raduate.................................
Specials.................................. Ioo
T otal.................................3464


WOMEN
I30
105
Ios
82
80
I3
10
420
420


STUDENTS REFERRED AND TREATED IN HOSPITALS
University   Hospital..................................  246
Homceopathic Hospital............................... 69
Total........................................... 1415
FATALITIES
A ppendicitis..........................................  I
Tuberculosis..........................................  I
Diabetes..............................................


CONDITIONS TREATED AT THE HEALTH SERVICE
OCTOBER TO JUNE (INCLUSIVE) I913-I914


Abscess...................


14


Acne Vulgaris...........      59
Albuminuria............      5
Alopecia Areata..........     7
Amenorrhoea............. 
Angina Vincent's..........    6
Anus, Fissure of........      6
Appendicitis...............  41
Arthritis..................    5
Asthma...................     8
Asthenopia................113
Appendectomy............       8
Bite (insect)..............   I9
Blepharitis Marginalis...... 22
Bronchitis................. 269
Bromodrosis..............      5
Bursitis...................    9
Callositas..................  35
Caries, dental.............  21
Cellulitis................   4
Cerumen impacted........      51




Chalazion.................   I
Chlorosis..................   I
Colitis....................   3
Conjunctivitis............ 112
Constipation symptomatic... 84
Cyst Sebaceous...........     9
Cyst Ovarian.............. 
Cystitis  acute.............  I
Circumcision.....7.......  I7
Dementia Precox.........      5
Dermatitis Unqualified.... II7
Dermatitis Medicamentosa.. 26
Dermatitis Calorica....... 52
Dermatitis Seborrhoea.... 29
Dermatitis Venenata.....     17
Diphtheria...............     7
D iabetes...................  2
Dislocation, finger.........  3
Dysmenorrhoea............24
Dyshidrosis...............  I3
Eczema...................    28




APPENDIX


69


Empyema.................     2
Enteritis..................  53
Endocarditis...............  I
Epilepsy..................  2
Epistaxis.................  I
Erythema acute exudative.. 12
Ethmoiditis...............   9
Examinations:
Blood................... 300
General physical........ 552
Lung and heart.........486
Nose and Throat........1820
Sputum.................  20
Urine................... 400
Exostosis.................   2
Fibroma uterine........... 
Foreign body, hand........   6
Foreign body, cornea...... 10
Fractures.................  38
Furunculosis..............  96
Gastro Enteritis...........  8
Goitre simple..............  17
Gonorrhoea............... 20
Hemorrhage unqualified....   10
Hemorrhoids.............. 35
Hayfever..................   4
Headache.................   67
Hematuria................  I
H ernia....................  15
Herpes....................  45
Hodgkins Disease.........    I
Hydrocele.................   5
Hygienic advice..........  500
Hyperchlorhydria.......... I05
Hysteria.................. 29
Hyperhidrosis.............   9
Injury to abdomen........    I
Impetigo contagiosa.......  20
Incontinence of Urine.....   5
Infection, localized........ 86
Influenza..................  3
Insufficiency aortic........  6
Insufficiency mitral........  8
Intertrigo.................  7


Insomnia..................  26
Jaundice..................    5
Laryngitis................. 166
Leucorrhoea............... 26
Lipoma...................     I
Lordosis..................   I
Lumbago..................  13
Lymphadenitis............    32
Lymphangitis..............    6
Malaria...................    4
Mastitis...................  2
Mastoiditis................   3
M easles...................  6
Menorrhaigia..............   IO
M igraine..................  17
Mumps....................     7
Myalgia...................   44
Nail ingrown..............   22
Nasal spur................ I27
Nasal Deviation........... I98
Nasal hypertrophied
turbinates...............  69
Nasal, Fibroma...........     I
Nasal  Polypi..............  6
Nephritis..................   5
Neuralgia.................   18
Neurasthenia.............. 120
Neuritis...................  2
No disease................   43
Oedemea..................     I
Otitis Media..............   46
Papilloma of scalp........    3
Paralysis unqualified......   2
Paralysis residual.........   I
Peritonitis tuberculous......  I
Pharyngitis............... 784
Phiiosis..................   I6
Phlebitis..................  2
Pes Planus...............     7
Pityriasis.................  I9
Pleurisy...................  19
Pneumonia................     4
Poisoning, gas.............   I
Poisoning, acute, food...... 12




70


APPENDIX


Pott's Disease.............   2
Proctitis..................  I
Prostatitis................. 
Psoriasis..................   5
Pterygium.................    I
Quinsy....................    9
Retinitis..................   I
Rheumatism...............  15
Rhinitis...................607
Scabies...................    3
Scarlet Fever..............  I
Scoliosis..................  2
Seborrhoea.................  2
Sinusitis..................  15
Sprain.................... 122
Stomaititis................   3
Stye.....................    22
Synovitis Teno..........      9 
Syphilis...................  4
Tachycardia...............    4
Taonea Saginata..........     7
Tinea Cruris..............   17
Tonsilitis.............. 558


Torticollis................  8
Tracheitis.................  27
Traumatism:
Crushing................   95
Cutting................. 96
Firearms................   4
Transfusion of blood...... 
Tuberculosis.............    12
Ulcers, septum............  20
Ulcers, unqualified.........  3
Ureteral calculus..........  I
Urethritis non-specific...... 22
Urticaria..................  20
Verruca...................   47
Vaccination anti-typhoid..   8
Vaccination smallpox.....    35
Varicella..................   3
Varicocele...............   13
Varicose Veins.........   2
Varicose Ulcer...........     2
Vulvo-Vaginitis...........    I
Whooping Cough............ I




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY orI MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, DECEMBER 22, 1914.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at io o'clock A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent,
Regent Sawyer.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes for the
meeting of November 24 were approved, as submitted to
the Regents in proof, with various minor changes.
Professor A. S. Whitney and Superintendent E. C. Warriner, of Saginaw, appeared and addressed the Board relative to the need for a demonstration school.
Regent Hanchett reported for the Committee to which
had been referred, with power, the question of furniture for
the new Homceopathic Hospital Nurses' Home (see page
I3). He stated that the Committee had authorized the
purchase of furniture and equipment to the total of $1,393.75, in accordance with the list which he filed. On motion,
this expenditure by the Committee was approved.
Regent Hubbard reported in the matter of purchase of
lands adjacent to the present Camp Bogardus, under options.
On his recommendation, the Board authorized the purchase
of the following parcels at the purchase price of $2,000 and
$400 respectively.
The northeast quarter (NE4) and the southwest quarter (SiW/4) of section thirty-four (34), Township thirtyseven (37) north, Range three (3) west, and the northwest quarter (NWI. ) of the northeast quarter (NE/4),
the east one-half (E/2) of the northwest quarter (NW4I),
the northeast quarter (NET/4) of the southwest quarter
(SWV./) and Government lot four (4) of Section four (4),
Township thirty-six (36) north, Range three (3) west,
comprising approximately five hundred (500oo) acres more
or less.




72


DECEMBER MEETING, 1914


The northwest quarter (NWI4) of the southwest quarter (SW4) and Government lot five (5), Section four (4)
and Government lot one (I) of section nine (9), all in
Township thirty-six (36) north, Range three (3) west, comprising seventy-six (76) acres more or less.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board authorized
the expenditure of $336.25 for repairs and improvements to
the animal quarters in the Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $400 was set
aside to cover the expense of closing up, with fire-proof
material, the opening back of the stage in University Hall
left by the removal of the organ, for minor changes in the
stage, and for the expense of reducing the seating capacity
of University Hall to a total of not to exceed 1,500.
Regent Clements brought up the matter of extending the
high pressure fire main to the Observatory grounds or otherwise providing better fire protection for the Observatory.
No action was taken at this time.
The Secretary presented a report by Dean Bates, as
counsel for the Board, relative to the liability of the University to special assessment by City authorities for sewers
and other municipal works. Following the presentation of
this report, the Regents declined to authorize the Secretary
to pay the assessment levied by the City against the University for sewer districts 59 and 62.
Regent Leland reported the purchase, as an investment
of University trust funds, of $Io,ooo of 5% bonds of the
City of McKinney, Texas, the purchase being made at par.
On motion of Regent Leland, the salary of Professor
Max Winkler was fixed at $3,30o, to date from October I,
1914.
On motion of Regent Leland, Assistant Professor L. C.
Karpinski was promoted to a Junior Professorship with
salary of $2,100 to date from October I, I9I4.
On motion of Regent Leland, the salary of Dean Julius
0. Schlotterbeck was fixed at $3,500 to, date from October
I, 1914.
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $Ioo was added
to the current expense budget of the College of Dental
Surgery to assist in meeting the expenses of the convention




DECEMBER MEETING, 1914


73


of the American Institute of Dental Teachers, to be held in
Ann Arbor, January 26, 27, and 28.
The President presented resolutions of the last Drawing
Conference of the Schoolmasters' Club, as follows:Resolved, That we, the members of the Drawing Conference of the Schoolmasters' Club, respectfully request the
Regents of the University of Michigan to arrange for the
inspection of the teaching of drawing in the accredited
schools.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, this resolution was referred to the department of Education for consideration.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, Mr. Jnanada Charan Das
Gupta, B.S., was appointed Assistant in General Chemistry,
without salary, for the University year I914-1915.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted that the
holders of the so-called industrial or commercial fellowships
or scholarships should not be exempt from the payment of
laboratory fees, but that the rule of March, 1902, (Proceedings I901-I906, p. 34), should apply to them as to all other
holders of fellowships or scholarships. The rule referred to
is as follows:The holders of fellowships and scholarships are required to pay the matriculation fee (if not already paid),
the annual fee, the diploma fee, laboratory expenses, and
similar charges, the same as other students of the Department in which their work lies.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Regent Hanchett was
appointed to initial the vouchers of December and Regent
Gore was appointed to, initial the vouchers of January.
The Secretary stated the desirability of early action in
order to supply, if possible, the needs of the University for
materials and apparatus which ordinarily would be imported
from abroad. On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Secretary
was given authority, within his discretion, to provide for the
University's needs for the year I915-I916 by placing orders
against the expected budget for I915-g916.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, appointments as recommended by the President and Professor Henderson for the
Detroit and Saginaw Extension Courses (for credit) were
confirmed as follows:



74           DECEMlIBER M EETIlNAG, 1914
Professor  R. M. W enley..........................$300.00
Professor E. R. Turner.......................... 300.00
Professor T. E. Rankin............................ 300.00
Professor  C. S. Berry............................. 300.00
Professor S. F. Gingerich (Detroit)............... 300.00
Professor S. F. Gingerich (Saginaw).............. 250.00
and traveling and hotel expenses.
Miss Georgia E. Jackson, Assistant to Professor
R ankin.......................................$200.00
Mrs. R. M. Wenley, Assistant to Professor Wenley. 75.00
F. A. Middlebush; Assistant to Professor Turner... 75.00
William A. Robinson, Assistant to Professor Gingerich........................................  75.00
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Secretary was directed to secure, if possible, a certified copy of the deed under
which the Regents hold title to a five-eighth interest in the
so-called Garden River Reserve lands of Ontario, Canada.
The Board, in view of the report upon these lands by Messrs.
Lang and Ross (see March, I914, page 943) declined to
authorize a further examination of the lands.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the presentation of an opinion by Dean H. M. Bates, the Secretary was
directed to secure also an opinion from the Attorney General
of the State with respect to the obligations of the University
under the federal deficiency tax law, and also to learn what
course was being pursued with respect to this law by other
State institutions.  In the meantime the Secretary was
directed to affix the deficiency tax stamps to bills of lading
and to bills for telephone and telegraph messages, etc.
The Secretary read an invitation from the Oratorical
Association to the Regents to be present at the annual debate
between the University of Chicago and the University of
Michigan to be held in Ann Arbor, January 15, 19I5.
A recommendation from the Executive Committee of the
Health Service was laid upon the table until the January
meeting.
At this point the Regents adjourned for lunch.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1914


75


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:30 P. M.        Present, the
President, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements
Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, and Regenl
Leland.   Absent, Superintendent Keeler, who later took
his seat, and Regent Sawyer.
Regent Bulkley presented the following letter:PRESIDENT HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
Office of the President.
DEAR SIR:I wish to bring the following matter to your attention.
In 1913 the Association of American Geographers raised a Committee on Research and instructed it to determine
what explorations the association should undertake to support. This committee canvassed the membership for recommendations and tentative outlines of proposed explorations, and as a member I submitted three plans for zoogeographical explorations, which I hoped would influence the
committee in its choice.
I have now been informed by the chairman that my suggestions have not only been approved by the committee but
that each member has selected them from the many proposed as his first choice. I am now urged by the committee to prepare detailed outlines and estimates of any one
of my three plans so that the committee may adopt it.
I am;about to propose a five-year biological survey of
an area in South America under my direction, the work to.
be done during the summer months. I anticipate that there
can be no objection to this on the part of the University
authorities but I wish to bring it to your attention because
I desire to bring the Museum into the work. The committee will agree to the condition that the University receive
all of the specimens obtained in as much as I will undertake
the explorations entirely without salary.
I would like to have your approval or disapproval of
this plan. It will in my opinion, be an excellent thing, not
only because a large amount of valuable material will be
secured, but also because the temporary connection between
the Museum and the Association will show to the country
at large that the work which is being done here has the approval of such an eminent organization as the Association
of American Geographers.
Permit me to add that I have not as yet submitted the




76


DECEMIBER MEETIANG, 1914


detailed plans, and that I mlay not be able to do so, since
my present salary scarcely justifies me in contracting to
spend the next four or five years in work for which I will
receive no remuneration. For this reason and because the
committee wishes it I would rather that the matter be kept
from the public until it is finally settled. I will not proceed farther until the plan has your formal approval.
Yours respectfully,
November I9, 1914.       ALEXANDER G. RUTHVEN.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the project as outlined by
Dr. Ruthven received the approval of the Regents.
A communication was received respecting the possible
purchase by the University of real estate owned by Cousins
& Hall on South University Avenue. No action was taken
on this communication.
Petitions were received from several University organizations and from a large number of individuals requesting
that the Regents should take steps to secure improved facilities in the Waterman Gymnasium. On motion of Regent
Beal, the matter was referred to the Buildings and Grounds
Committee for investigation, with the request to report upon
such changes or repairs as the Committee might regard as
immediately feasible and also to report upon such enlargement of the gymnasium as would be most desirable if it
could be effectetl, and to suggest to the Board, if possible,
ways and means for carrying out such recommlendations as
might be made.
A report was presented from the Auditor General of the
State showing the usual audit of the books of the Treasurer
of the University at the close of business October 31, 1914,
up to and including November 30, I914. On motion of Regent Leland, this report was received and placed on file.
Superintendent Keeler took his seat.
A communication from    Professor V\an Zwaluwenburg
zwas referred to Regent Sawyer for report at the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board appointed a
Committee on the Biological Station to consider and make
recommendations concerning all questions of policy, budget,
staff, equipment, instruction, and all other matters pertaining to the welfare of the Station, it being understood that




DECEMBER MEETING, 1914 


77


the Director of the Station shall be charged with immediate
supervision, as the executive officer. The Committee as
appointed consists of the Professor of Zoology, the Professor of Botany, the'Director of the Biological Station, the
Dean of the Graduate Department, and the Dean of the
Summer Session.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the degree of Bachelor
of Civil Engineering was conferred upon Floyd Atkinson.
in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of
the Department of Engineering.
The President communicated to the Board the fact of
the death, on December 5, of Forrest Ray Baker, Assistant
in Mathematics. On motion of Regent Hanchett, in view of
the fact that Mr. Baker's work had been carried by his
colleagues up to the Holiday recess, the Board directed that
his salary up to that date should be paid to his widow.
A communication from the University Senate transmitting for approval by the Regents the resolutions taken
by the Senate at its meeting of March 30, 1914, relative to
joint committees on discipline, was laid upon the table.
On motion of Regent Clements, balances in the following accounts were turned back into the general fund:S.A., November 14, 1913, Fire escape Palmer Ward..$ 70.53
S.A., November 14, 1913, Moving Guenther house.. 334.65
S.A., March 27, I914, Extension to fire main........ 200.62
S.A., November 14, I913, Moving Edison house....  87.03
S.A., April 29, I914, Track extension............. 0oo.o9
S.A., February 17, I914, Health Service offices.... 233.21
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside the
sum of $264.30 to cover the cost of moving the Psychology
Laboratory from the site of the present Science Building,
and also set aside the sum of $34.22 to cover the cost of the
changes in the exits from Waterman Gymnasium.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley setting
forth the necessities of the Department of Engineering for
additional room.  On motion of Regent Hubbard, Dean
Cooley was invited to come before the Regents at the next
meeting for a conference upon this subject.
On motion of Regent Clements, not to exceed $i50 was
allowed to cover the expense of preparing sketches for an
addition to the General Library.




78


DECEMBER MEETING, 1914


Librarian Koch communicated to the Regents the fact
that the Library had just received from the American Bible
Society a gift of volumes representing translations of the
complete Bible, or parts thereof, into eighty-three languages,.
of some of which languages there had hitherto been no
specimens in the University Library. On motion of Regent
Clements, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the Regents accept with profound thankfulness the gift of the American Bible Society of the translations of the Bible into many languages. These volumes
will be carefully preserved and used to the general advantage of students.
Resolved, Further, That a copy of these resolutions be
forwarded to the Society.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. H. C. Barnett, at present
Assistant in French, was promoted for the final three-fifths
of the present semester and for all of the second semester to
be Instructor in French, vice Mr. J. R. Shulters, resigned,
with salary at the rate of $Iooo per year. Mr. Leo C.
Hughes was appointed Assistant in French for the same
period, to succeed Mr. Barnett, at the salary rate of $450
per year.
Superintendent Keeler was excused.
On motion of Regent Beal, the salary of Ray K. Immel,.
as Instructor in Oratory, was increased to $1,200 for the
present year.
The following appointments made by the Secretary were,.
on motion of Regent Beal, confirmed:L. D. Funk, Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, vice
William H. Gordon, resigned, for the final three-fifths of
the first semester and for the entire second semester, with
salary at the rate of $350 per year.
Earl Sexton, Clerical Assistant in Pathology, half time,
from December 14, I9I4, with salary at the rate of $300 per
year, twelve months' basis.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board set aside the
sum of $524.80 to cover the cost of 256 steel lockers to take
the place of wooden lockers at present in the Engineering
Shops.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board adopted the
following salary schedule for the Summer Session:



DECEMBER MEETING, I9I4


79


Instructors........................................  $300
Assistant  Professors................................  400
Junior Professors...................................  400
Professors..........................................  500
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the budget of the Summer Session of I9I5, as recommended by the Summer Session Committee, was adopted,-the total sum involved being
$65,063.20. The budget in detail will be found as Appendix
A to the Proceedings of this meeting.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Executive
Board of the Graduate Department, degrees were voted as
follows:MASTER OF ARTS
Jacob Eurrus Munn, A.B., Tulane University, 1913.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Chang Ping Wang, A.B., Peking University, 90o6.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate Department, Alfred E. Lussky, A.M. was appointed to a $300
University Fellowship for the final nine-tenths of the present
University year, succeeding James B. Sanford, resigned after drawing one-tenth of the annual stipend.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board authorized loans
from  the '94 Class Fund, as follows: $50 to Martin E.
McCarty and $Ioo to Louis C. Reimann.
A communication was received from Dean Effinger relative to the salary of Clara B. Dunn. No action was taken.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science and the Arts, degrees and diplomas were voted as
follows:BACHELOR 01 ARTS
Ann Loretta Helmsdorfer     John Louis Nicholaus
Sherman Martin McNair       Clay Webster Wilber
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
Julius Stanley Shourds Gardner James Floyd Runner
Glenn Elliott Mapes          Herbert Olander Westervelt
Edmund Christopher Mohr




80


DECEMBER MEETING, 1914


TEACHER'S DIPLOMA
Ann Loretta Helmsdorfer   Flora Ellen Judd
A communication from the Students' Christian Association asking leave to solicit funds among the alumni of the
University, was laid upon the table until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of M\edicine and
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was voted to
Harold Stacey Hulbert.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, certificates of graduation from the University Hospital Training School for Nurses were voted to Ada Eichbaum and Minnie Maude Cook.
A bill for $260 from the Johnson Service Company for
additional valves installed in the Hill Auditorium was received and approved. This bill had the approval of Albert
Kahn, the architect of the building. On motion of Regent
Leland, payment was approved out of the Hill Auditorium
Gift Fund.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board granted the
request of The Michigan Technic for an allowance of $200
to be used in the publication of the magazlne this year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Dr. William F. Hauhart
was promoted to be Assistant Professor of German at the
salary of $I,7oo per year, to date from October i, 1914.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the salary of Wells I.
Bennett, Instructor in Stereotomy, Mechanism and Drawing.
was fixed at $1,200, to date from October I, 1914.
The request of Dean Cooley for an additional instructor
in Civil Engineering for the second semester of the present
University year was referred to the Executive Committee,
with power.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following resolution
was adopted:"WHERnEAS, The University Library requires immediate
protection, enlargement, and improvement, and whereas the
superintendents of the schools of Michigan are unanimous
in a request for a Model Training School under the management of the University;




DECEMIBER MLEETING, 19 14


8i


Resolved, That this Board ask the Legislature for a
substantial appropriation for each purpose, the amount and
the details of construction to be determined at the January meeting of the Board.
The Board approved the following resolution:Resolved, That the Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical College, University of Michigan, petition the Regents of
the University for permission to announce that with the
opening of the University year I9I6 the requirements for
entrance to this college shall be credits equivalent to two
years' work in the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Dr. Hugh M. Beebe was
appointed to serve, without additional compensation, as Assistant Medical Director of the Homoeopathic Hospital.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the certificate of graduation from the Homoeopathic Hospital Training School for
Nurses was granted to Ruby Blanche Laidlaw.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board accepted the
resignation from  the Health Service of Dr. Warren E.
Forsythe, who had been asked to organize and conduct a
Health Service in the Pennsylvania State College, the resignation to be effective as of December 31, 1914. On motion
of Regent Hanchett, Dr. Joseph Elliott was appointed to
succeed Dr. Forsythe, with compensation at the rate of
$1,500 per year for the period from January i to June 30,
I915.
On motion of Regent Leland, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the Chairmen of the various Departmental Committees of the Regents be requested to investigate, with the aid of the respective Deans, the needs of the
various Departments of the University with a view to determining whether the efficiency of the Departments can be
increased, and to report at the next meeting of the Regents.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adjourned to
To A. M., January 22, 19'15.
SI-IIIRIL.TY NWV. S  Iecre,
Secretary.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS OF DlCEMIBK 22, 1914
Budget for the Summer
Session of 1915
As AlPROV\71)D DE:CE:IMPR 22. [SrEI PA\GE 79.]


I915      I9I4
Literature, Science, and the Arts $33,293.36 $28,032.00
Engineering and Architecture... 1o,063.34   II,305.00
Medicine and Surgery.........    5,30.00   4,362.50
Law..........................  6,ooo.oo  4,800.00
Pharmacy.....................     600.00     496.00
Biological Station..............  3,92.50  4,103.oo
Library Methods...............    890.00     790.00
Embalming and Sanitary Science     720.00     662.00
Administration.................  1,525.00  1,445.00
General Expense...............   2,710.00   2,545.00
$65,063.20 $58,541.50


Increase
or Decrease
+ $5,261.36
-   1,232.66
+    977.50
+   1,200.00
+-    I04.00
-  181.50
+    100.00
+     58.oo
+     80.00
+    i65.oo
+ $6,52.00
+ $6,52I.70


DEPARTMEINT O LITERATURE, SCIE'NC., AND THE ARTS
TT     -.


rirs. 1915
GreekProfessor C. Bonner......... 6   $500.00
Asst. Professor J. G. Winter 32    133.33
LatinProfessor H. A. Sanders.... 64 $500oo.oo
Professor C. L. Meader...... 64    500.00
Asst. Prof. A. R. Crittenden 96    400.00
Asst. Professor J. G. Winter 64    266.67
Romance LanguagesProfessor     ---....... 64  500.00
Professor ----     --....... 64  500.00
Junior Professor ----. 64  400.00
Instructor   -----.......96   300.00
Instructor       ---....... 96  30.00
Instructor     -.......  96  300.00


I914


Increase


$   633.33        4        $ 496  $  37.33
1,666.67     1,376         290.67


2,300.00  1,984     316.00




APPENDIX                                    83
Hrs. I915                  1914      Increase
German-.
Professor Max Winkler..... 64      500.00
Professor E. Boucke........ 64     500.00
Jr. Professor T. Diekhoff... 64    400.00
Jr. Professor J. A. C. Hildner 64  400oo.00
Asst. Professor W. W. Florer 64    266.67
Asst. Professor C. E. Eggert 64    266.67
Asst. Professor J. W. Scholl 64    266.67
2,600.01   I,808       792.01
EnglishProfessor I. N. Demmon.... 64      500.00
Professor L. A. Strauss.... 64    500.00
Professor J. S. P. Tatlock... 64 500.00
Asst. Prof. W. R. Humphreys 96     400.00
Asst. Prof. S. F. Gingerich... 96  400.00
2,300.00   1,872       428.00
RhetoricJr. Professor T. E. Rankin 64      400.00
Asst. Professor J. R. Brumm 96     400.00
Instructor H. S. Mallory..... 96   300.00
Instructor E. L. Bryson...... 64   200.00
Instructor R. W. Cowden.... 32     Ioo.oo
Assistant Clara Dunn........       50.00
1,450.00   1,138       312.00
OratoryAsst. Prof. R. D. T. Hollister 96 4oo.oo
Instructor R. K. Immel...... 96   300.00
Instructor L. Eich........... 96   300.00
I,000.00     944        56.oo
HistoryProfessor E. W. Dow....... 64     500.00
Professor E. R. Turner...... 64   500.00
Professor --........ 64  500.00
Assistant Professor   --   -- 64   266.67
1,766.67   1,448       318.67




84


APPENDIX


Hrs. 1915
Political Economy and Sociology 
Professor I. L. Sharfman.... 64   500.00
Assistant Professor      -    96 400.00
Instructor ---...... 96 300.00
Instructor -....... 96  300.00
Instructor --....... 64 200.00


I914        Increase


1,700.00


1,552


148.00


Political ScienceProfessor J. S. Reeves......
Assistant Professor       -


64 500.o0
64 266.67


766.67      666        10o.67


PhilosophyProfessor R. M. Wenley.... 64
Asst. Professor J. F. Shepard 32
Asst. Profsesor C. B. Vibbert 64
Asst. Professor R. W. Sellars 64
Asst. Professor D. H. Parker 32
Instructor H. F. Adams...... 96
Assistant N. L. Perkins.....


500.00
133.33
266.67
266.67
33.33
300.0(
120.00


1,720.00  I,424     296.00


EducationProfessor A. S. Whitney.... 64
Junior Professor C. 0. Davis 64
Asst. Professor C. S. Berry 64
Asst. Professor F. S. Breed.. 64
Asst. Professor G. L. Jackson 64
MathematicsProfessor W. W. Beman.... 64
Professor J. L. Markley..... 64
Junior Professor W. B. Ford 64
Junior Prof. L. C. Karpinski 64
Asst. Prof. J. W. Bradshaw 64
Instructor C. H. Forsythe.... 96
Instructor A. L. Miller...... 64


500.00
o00.00
266.67
266.67
266.67


1,700.01   1,488


212.01


500.00
500.00
400.00
400.00
266.67
300.00
200.00


2,566.67


2,240     326.67




APPENDIX                                    85
Hrs.  1915                 1914      Increase
AstronomyProfessor W. J. Hussey..... 32    250.00
Jr. Professor R. H. Curtiss 32 200.00
Instructor P. W. Merrill.... 32     00oo.oo
Visitors' Night.............       10.00
560.oo     461         99.oo
PhysicsProfessor K. E. Guthe...... 64     500.00
Jr. Professor H. M. Randall 64     4o0.0o
Jr. Professor A. W. Smith.. 64     400.00
Jr. Prof. W. D. Henderson 64       400.00
Asst. Prof. N. H. Williams 80      333.33
Instructor G. A. Lindsay..... 96   300.00
Instructor C. V. Kent....... 96   300.00
Instructor R. V. Allman.... 96    300.00
2,933.33   2,150       783.33
ChemistryJunior Professor L. H. Cone. 64    400.00
Asst. Professor D. M. Lichty 96    400.00
Asst. Professor W. J. Hale 32      133.33
Asst. Prof. W. G. Smeaton.. 96     400.00
Asst. Prof. H. H. Willard.. 96     400.00
Instructor H. N. Cole...... 96     300.00
Instructor R. J. Carney..... 96   300.00
Instructor F. E. Bartell.... 96   300.00
Instructor    -....... 96  300.00
Eleven Assistant at $40......     440.00
3,373.33   3,256       117.33
Mineralogy 
Professor E. H. Kraus......48     375.00
Asst. Professor W. F. Hunt 96 400oo.oo
Assistant ---........      5.oo
825.00     734          I.oo0
GeologyAsst. Professor I. D. Scott.. 96   400.00
Assistant S. W. Hockett....         5o.oo
Excursion Fund...........          25.00
475.00     475




86                           APPENDIX
Hrs. I915                 1914      Increase
ZoologyJr. Professor 0. C. Glaser 32 200.00
Asst. Professor G. R. LaRue 64    266.67
Assistants..................     125.00
591.67     445       146.67
BotanyJr. Professor J. B. Pollock 64 400.00
Asst. Professor --.. 96 400.00
Asst. Professor H. T, Hus.. 96    4oo.oc
Three Assistants...........      150.00
Excursion Fund............         5.00o
I,365.00   1,253      112.00
Iandscape DesignJunior Professor A. Tealdi.. 64 400.00
400.00     320        80.oo
Physical TrainingDirector G. A. May.......... 64 400.00
Instructor M. Wood......... 64 200.00
60.00o     512        88.oo
$33,293.36 $28,032    $5,261.36
DEPARTMEN'TS OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Hrs. 1915                 1914      Increase
7EnglishAsst. Prof. W. D. Moriarty.. 96 400.00
Instructor 0. C. Marckwardt 32 Ioo.00
$500.00    $384    $ 1 6.oo
GermanAsst. Professor A. 0. Lee.. 64 266.67
Instructor --....... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 64 200.00
766.67     480       286.67




APPENDIX                                   87
Hrs. I915                  1914      Increase
or
Decrease
FrenchAsst. Professor J. P. Bird.. 96.00.00
Instructor A. F. Hurlburt.... 64  200.00
600.00     640  -     40.00
MathematicsInstructor....... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 8o  250.00
Instructor -....... 80 250.00
8oo.oo     768   -    32.00
DrawingAssistant Professor   -       96  400.00
Instructor -....... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
I,ooo.oo    576   +    424.00 -Shop WorkInstructor W. R. McDonald....        40      40
(Duties of Acting Superintendent of shops)
SurveyingProfessor C. T. Johnson (Director of Bogardus Engineering Camp)........... 96    550.00
Assistant Professor ----- 96 400.00
Assistant...................    150.00, Ioo.oo   3,834* -  2,734*
Engineering MechanicsAsst. Prof. W. T. Fishleigh 64 266.67
Instructor J. Airey......... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
866.67     992  -    I25.33
*A supplementary budget, estimated at $3,500 to $4,000, to carry on the
work at Camp Bogardus, will be incorporated in the general budget of the
Department of Engineering for I915-1916. See communication to the Board of
Regents from Dean M. E. Cooley, for the November meeting, I914.




88                            A4PPENDIX
Hrs.  19[5                 I914      Increase
or
Decrease
Mechanical EngineeringProfessor J. R. Allen........ 64   500.00
Asst. Prof. J. E. Emswiler 06      400.oo
Instructor F. W. Pawlowski So      250.0o
I,I50.00   1,392  -    242.00
Electrical EngineeringProfessor          -....... 64  500.00
Assistant Professor          - 96  400oo.oo
Assistant Professor          - 96  400.00
Instructor ....... 96            300.00
i,6oo.oo   1,o88  +    512.00
Chemical EngineeringProfessor -....... 64  500.00
Junior Professor. 64  400.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
Assistant........      40.00
1,240.00     824   -   416.00
ArchitectureAssistant Professor -----    - 96  400.00                 288   +    II2.00
$I0,063.34  $II,306  -$1,232.66
DT)PART'MEl' NT O- MIEDICIN1;: AND) SURGERY
Hrs. I9g5                  1914      Increase
MedicineProfessor A. W. Hewlett.... 60     375.00
Instructor F. N. Wilson..... 90    225.00
$ 6oo.oo  $ 405.00     $I95.oo
SurgeryProfessor C. G. Darling..... 60    300.00
Professor I. D. Loree.......60    Io0.0o
450.00    375.00       75.oo
PhysiologyInstructor 0. M. Cope....... 90   225.00                 202.50       22.50




APPENDIX


89


Hrs. 1915
GynecologyInstructor W. F. Seeley...... 90   225.00
Instructor F. M. Loomis..... 90    225.00
Instructor R.A. Bartholomew 90 225.00
OtolaryngologyProfessor R. B. Canfield..... 60  300.00
Supplies....................       40 oo
OpthalmologyProfessor W. R. Parker...... 60    300.00
PathologyProfessor A. S. Warthin..... 60   375.co
Instructor C. V. Weller...... 90  225.00


I914       Increase


675.00    607.50


67.50


340.00   280.00     60.oo
300.00   240.00     6o.oo


Nervous DiseasesProfessor C. D. Camp...... 60      375.00
PharmacologyProfessor C. W. Edmunds... 60       375.00
Assistant...................       100.00


60o.00   502.50
375.00    300.00


97.50
7500oo


Dermatology and SyphilologyProfessor U. J. Wile........ 60  300.00
BacteriologyInstructor P. H. DeKruif... 9o 225.00
Physiological ChemistryInstructor L. C. Ludlum.... 9   225.00
AnatomyInstructor J. L. Wlorcester... o9 225.00
Assistant L. H. Clark........    100.00


475-00   300.00    175.00
300.00   240.00     6o.oo


225.00    202.50


22.50


225.00    202.50     22.50


Vaccines and Serum Therapy 
Instructor J. G. Cumming-... 90  225.00


325.00   302.50     22.50
225.00    202.50     22.50
$5,340.00 $4.362.50  $977.50




90


APPENDIX


I)EPARTME NT'1 OF LAW
I915
Professor             (Contracts)... $750
Prof. J: H. Drake (Property I and
Damages)........................    625
Prof. H. M. Bates (Constitutional
Law )............................  5oo
Prof. H. L. Wilgus (Private Corporations)...........................  500
Prof. C. W Stoner (Common Law
Pleadlings and! Public Corporations)  625
Professor J. B. Waite (Sales)....... 375
Professor R. Pound (Equity and Jurisprudence)......................  500
Prof. E. R. Sunderland (Evidence)      500
Professor      -      (Wills)....... 375
Professor             (Constitutional
Law I)..........................    375
Professor R. E. Bunker (Bills and
Notes, and Suretyship)...........    oo
Professor E. N. Durfee     (Criminal
Law)............................  375


1914       Increase


$6,000oo  $4,800   $200.00


SCHOOL OI0 PHARMACY
I915
Professor C. H. Stocking.............   oo
Instructor C. C. Glover..............  00
$
BIOLOGICAL STATION
1915
Asst. Prof. H. A. Gleason, Director $475
Assistant Professor M. M. Ellis..... 400
Assistant Professor R. W. Hegner... 40.
Instructor P. Okkelberg............ 300
Instructor F. C. Gates............... 300
Instructor F. T. McFarland.......... 200
Assistant F. J. Dunbar..............   100
Marion D. Ellis, Dean of Women....      50
Assistant W. W. Cort...............      50
Four Assistants....................   200
Equipment.........................    301
Current Expense.................. 1,145.50


1914      Increase


60o   $ 496   $ I0.4.00o
1914    Decrease


$3,921.50  $4,03       $  I81.5o




APPENDIX


91


SCHOOL OF LIBRARY METHODS
I915                1914
Director T. W. Koch................ $500
Instructor F. L. D. Goodrich........ I5c
Instructor Esther A. Smith.......... IOO
Instructor W. C. Hollands...........    50
Lecturer on Children's Work........     50
Lecturer S. H. Ranck.............       20
Supplies............................  20
$ 890.00 $ 790
EMBAIMING AND SANITARY 'CIENCE


Increase


$ I00.00


I9I5
Assistant Professor W. J. Hale...... $200
Instructor in Anatomy..............   15
Instructor in Bacteriology........... 15
Instructor in Embalming............ 20
Assistant in Chemistry.............. 20


1914       Increase


$ 720.00 $ 662


$   58.00


ADMINISTRATION


1915
Professor E. H. Kraus, Acting Dean $500
Junior Professor T. E. Rankin, Secretary, Literature, Science. and the
Arts...........................  300
Asst. Professor J. P. Bird, Secretary,
Engineering and Architecture......  oo
Professor C. W. Edmunds, Secretary,
Medicine and Surgery............   oo
Professor E. C. Goddard, Secretary,
Law.............................  200
Professor K. E. Guthe, Dean, Graduate Department................. 1oo
Jane A. Cochran, Acting Dean of
W omen.........................  I00
Assistant in General Library........  oo
Assistant in Law Library............  25


1914      Increase


$1,525.00   $I,445      $    8o.oo




92                          APPENDIX
GENERAI, EXPENSE
(Tentative distribution subject to change within the total amount)
1915              1914      Increase
6,ooo Announcements, general, complete.............................  $450
Io,ooo Announcements, Embalming
and Sanitary Science..............  60
I0,000 Announcements, Law.........   45
Ioo,ooo Announcements, general,
abridged......................... 8oo
5,000 Announcements, Pharmacy,
inserts...........................  15
Non-resident lecturers..............  200
Stenographer........................  6oo
Messenger and clerical assistance....  35
Lecture Attendant..................  50
Stationery and printing............ 125
Postage............................  I50
Incidentals.........................  75
$2,710 $2,545    $ 165.oo




JANUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OV MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, January 2I, I9I5.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io o'clock A. M.,
the date having been changed by common consent from
January 22, the date fixed at the previous meeting, to January 2I. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent
Beal, Regent Clements, Regent Hubbard, Regent Bulkley,
and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Sawyer, who
later took his seat, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Gore.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of December 22 were approved as submitted to the members in proof.
The Committee on Nomenclature (see June, 1914, p.
IOI4) made the following report, which with such changes
as were suggested by Regent Hubbard and are incorporated
in the report as printed below, was adopted, with the understanding that all previous pertinent regulations are to be
interpreted. consistently with the report, and that the required changes made in the diploma plates should date from
January I, I916.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan:Your committee; appointed to prepare and submit a
standard nomenclature of University buildings, departments,
etc.. with a standard of capitalization, for the guidance of
the editors of the University publications, begs leave to submit the following report: 
I. Your committee recommends that the name of the
large annual publication be changed from "The Calendar
of the University of Michigan for (1915-I916)" to "The Catalogue of the University of Michigan for (I915-I9I6)."
This publication is indeed for the most part a catalogue of
the faculty and students and of the courses offered, while it




94


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


contains in three pages a calendar of the year. Moreover,
the latter fact introduces an awkward confusion in referring to the calendar in the Calendar. The corresponding
publication at most universities is called a catalogue and it
was so called at this University from the beginning until
1871, when its name was changed. We therefore now recommend a return to the original usage. We would further
recommend that the larger annual publication of each Department be called the Announcement of that Department
and that other publications describing special facilities and
programs (as in Business, Administration, Forestry, etc.) be
called Bulletins.
2. In an extended and very pertinent article in the
last annual report of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, President Pritchett criticizes the
catalogue of the University of Michigan in but one important particular, viz., the double and inconsistent use of
the term department both for a grand division of the University and for a division within the former devoted to instruction in a single branch. There has been much confusion in this regard throughout the country, and this University is one of the chief offenders. Thus we have one
school, two colleges, and five departments (including the
only Graduate Department in the United States) and we try
to distinguish the word department used in this sense from
the same word used to designate the smaller divisions by
spelling it with a capital "D" in the former case and a
small "d" in the latter. Even this mode of distinction fails
in speech or when printed in publications other than our
own. This problem of nomenclature was carefully considered by the Association of American Universities and the
set of definitions of certain terms quoted below was adopted by that Association in 9o09 and I9Io, later adopted by
the National Association of State Universities, and subsequently approved by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
The University of Michigan is a member of each of
these bodies. Moreover the terminology advised is conservative, feasible, and well-chosen, and has been approved and
for the most part adopted by most of the prominent institutions. Dean Henry M. Pates, Counsel to the Board, to
whom the question has been referred, expresses the opinion,
after careful investigation, that the Board of Regents has




JANUARY MEETING, 1951


95


the power to make such changes in names of the various
parts of the University as it may deem wise. His opinion
is appended hereto.
In the belief that thereby we can eliminate the ugly and
troublesome inconsistency and confusion in which we are
now involved, your committee recommends the adoption of
-the nomenclature as contained in the definitions quoted below and in particular the nomenclature cited in connection
with these definitions.
A. "That the term   department be restricted to the
various subjects taught in the university; as, for instance,
the department of Latin, department of mathematics, department of physics, etc."
B. "That the term course be restricted to the subdivisions of a subject, as, for instance, Course I in English."
C. "That the term college be restricted to a part of
the university the standard of admission to which is the
equivalent of that required by the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching, and which offers instruction
of not less than two years' duration leading to a first degree in arts, letters, or sciences."  Thus, in particular, we
recommend the nomenclature: the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture; the College of Pharmacy; the College of
Dental Surgery.
D. "That the term school be restricted to a part of
the university the standard of admission to which is not less
than the equivalent of two years' work in the college and
which offers instruction of not less than two years' duration leading to a technical or professional degree." In particular, we recommend the nomenclature: the Medical
School; the  Law   School; the   Homoeopathic  Medical
School; the Graduate School.
E. "That the term group be restricted to a combination of related subjects," as, for instance, the foreign language group, the civil engineering group.
F. "That the term curriculum be restricted to a combination of courses leading to a degree." Thus, in particular, we recommend the nomenclature: the Combined Curriculum in Letters and Law, etc., etc.; the Curricula in Business Administration, in Civil Engineering, in Forestry, etc.,
etc.




96


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


G. "That the term  division be used to indicate any
organic portion of the university which is larger or more
independent than a department." This term does not apply
to any present condition.
H. We recommend the use of the expression the University Extension Service.
The Homceopathic Medical School should, in our opinion, be so called because in September I9I6 it will require
two years of college work for admission. When one of the
schools or colleges is referred to separately it should be
called, for example, "The Medical School of the University
of Michigan."
3. Your committee recommends the change in titles
from Junior Professor and Clinical Professor to Associate
Professor. The latter is the term used universally throughout the country and was in use here until 1889. We therefore recommend a return to the original usage.
4. Your committee also recommends the adoption of
the terminology: the department of Economics, with the
sub-departments of Political Economy, Business, Administration, and Sociology. Thus the term Political Economy
would have its original significance, the other subjects having been added more recently.
5. We recommend the adoption of the following names
for the University Buildings: University Hall, Engineering Building, Medical Building, Law Building, Natural Science Building, Chemistry and Pharmacy Building, Library,
Museum, Tappan Hall, Alumni Memorial Hall, Physics
Building, Old Engineering Building, Engineering Shops,
Economics Building, Physiology and Pharmacology Building, Surveying Building, Waterman Gymnasium, Barbour
Gymnasium, Hill Auditorium, Dental Building, Homceopathic Building, University Homceopathic Hospital, University Hospital (including various Wards, etc.), Observatory,
West Hall, President's Residence, Old Power House, Power Sub-station, Campus Fire Station, University Health
Service Offices, Homoeopathic Nurses' Home, Storehouse,
Heating and Power Plant, Nurses' Home (several), Sewage Disposal Plant, Gauging Station, University Greenhouses, Forestry Nursery, Helen H. Newberry Residence
Hall, Martha Cook Building.




JA4NUARY MEETING, 191-5


97


6. Your committee recommends that in capitalizing,
punctuating and alphabeting, the official University publications conform to the rules contained in the Manual of Style
issued by the University of Chicago Press. This will insure
as much uniformity as is possible when these publications
are edited by so many different persons.
7. We recommend that these regulations go into effect
in the publications appearing after February I, I915.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ARTHUR G. HALL
ISAA C N. DEI MMON
I concur in the foregoing recommendations.
S. W. SMIITH
The Senate Council at its meeting January 5, 1915, voted unanimously to concur in the foregoing recommendations. The Senate Council is composed of the President,
the Deans of all the Departments, and Professors Lloyd,
Markley, Alien, Novy, Lane, Bigelow, Myers, and \Ward.
The Secretary reported that the Attorney General of
the State had given no opinion with regard to the liability
of the University under the federal deficiency tax law, but
that the Collector of Internal Revenue at Detroit had advised
in every case submitted to him that the University was not
liable under this law.
Dean Bates and Judge Lane appeared as representatives
respectively of the Michigan Union and the Students'
Christian Association relative to matters the subject of discussion between these organizations.    The informal understanding was reached that Professor Bates and Professor
Lane should consider the matter further and endeavor to
report a joint recommendation at the next meeting of the
Regents. In the meantime the University Y. M. C. A. is
to confine its solicitation of funds among the alumni of the
University to subscriptions for current expenses only.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the salary of Dr. HI. H.
Cummings, Executive     Head of the University      Health
Service, was placed at the rate of $3,500 per year, beginning with February I, provided this change could be made
within the income of the Health Service.




98


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


An informal report was made in the matter of improved
facilities in the Waterman Gymnasium. On motion of Regent Clements, this question was referred back to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for further consideration.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. James G. Van
Zwaluwenburg was requested to devote his entire time to
his duties as Clinical Professor of Roentgenology, and on
condition that compliance with this request should be agreeable to Dr. Van Zwaluwenburg, his salary was fixed at the
rate of $3,000 per year from the beginning of the second
semester of the present year.
The Executive Committee filed the following report,
which was, on motion of Regent Hubbard, adopted and approved:To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee, held January 14, I915, the matter of an additional instructor in Civil
Engineering, that was referred with power to the Committee at the last meeting of the Board, was up for consideration, and your Committee concluded that such an instructor
was necessary and appointed to that position Mr. James
Harlan Cissel, B.S. in Civil Engineering, at a salary of
$1,200.00 per year, his term of service to begin with the second semester.
Respectfully submitted.
IExECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
VWALTEIR H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
II. B. HUTCHINS.
Ann Arbor, Mich., January 20, 1915.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the sum of $2,500 be set aside into a
special fund for the use of the Mineralogical department
under the direction of the Regents.




JANUARY MEETING, 1915


99


Regent Clements presented preliminary sketches of a
proposed rebuilding of the University Library.
On motion of Regent Clements the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the attorneys of the Board be requested to draw up a bill and that the proper committee of the
Regents be requested to have such bill introduced into the
Legislature, embodying an appropriation of $350,000 for a
new Library Building and $300,000 for a Model School;
of the total sum for both purposes, $300,000 to be available
in 1915 and $350,000 in I916.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That upon written request of the complainant
in the case of Mary Burke vs. Pinkham & Wright, the hospital record of the complainant be copied and sent to the
defendant.
Regent Leland discussed questions involved in the University's investment policy.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
sale of Lot I, Block I9, Fyfe, Barbour, and Warren
addition to the City of Detroit, at the price of $I,ooo, provided that an appraisal by Regent Bulkley should show this
price to be a fair one.
On motion, the Board adjourned for lunch.
1N SESSION
The Board reassembled at 21I5 P. M.     Present, the
President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, and Regent Bulkley. Absent, Superintendent Keeler, who later took his seat, and
Regent Hanchett and Regent Gore.
Dean Cooley appeared in response to the invitation extended to him at the December meeting (see page 77) and




I00


JANUARY MIEETING, 1915


set forth the present and probable future necessities of the
Department of Engineering.
Superintendent Keeler took his seat.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Secretary was instructed
to get data from other universities relative to tuition fees
charged there, particularly with reference to distinctions between residents and non-residents of the state concerned.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee, with power, the matter of engaging
an additional professor in the Economics department to
give instruction particularly in the labor problem and in taxation. The Committee was empowered to select an incumbent
and to fix the salary.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request
of Professor Reeves that next year's budget should include
provision for another member of the teaching staff in Political Science, and Professor Reeves was authorized to recommend an instructor or an assistant professor, as might seem
best.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted, for this
year only, the request of the student committee on the Junior
Hop that the usual fee of $50 for the use of the Gymnasium
might be remitted.
On motion of Regent Leland, the salary of John R.
Brumm, as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, was fixed at
$I,8oo for the present University year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Exccutive Committee and the Committee on the Literary   artment be authorized to investigate the present use and adequacy of the University buildings. That investigation should include (I) the determination of the probable rate of growth of the University
(2) the determination of the limits of floor space per student necessary for the functions of the different departments; and (3) a recommendation of measures whereby,
if possible, a:more economic use of space in the different
buildings shall be brought about.
Said Committees are empowered to employ such assistance as they may deem necessary to carry out the purposes
of this resolution.




JANUARY?MEETING, 1915                     Ioi
Superintendent Keeler communicated to the Board the
fact that the Michigan State Board of Education had adopted
a resolution favoring the establishment of a demonstration
school in connection with the University, and Superintendent
Keeler further stated to the Board that the demonstration
school project had the hearty endorsement of the heads of
all the Michigan State Normal Schools.
The Secretary presented the following report showing
the completion of the tabulation of the inventory of June
30, 1914:To the Honorable Board of Regents: ---
In accordance with Section 2225 of the compiled laws of
of Michigan, the biennial inventory of the University as of
June 30, I914, has been prepared and is ready for your
signature at the meeting of January 21. One ccpy of this
book goes to the Auditor General's office and other copies
are retained here. Members of the Board of Regents will
find blanks for their signature, required by law, on page
2123, and my own certificate and that of the Inventory
Clerk, on which the Regents' signatures are based, are on
the two pages preceding.
Members of the Board of Regents, who are Trustees
of the State Psychopathic Hospital, should also sign on page
53, Appendix, the Trustees' certificate being based on those
of Mr. Draper and Dr. Barrett immediately preceding.
The totals of the inventory for June 30, I914 and also
for June 30, I912 are as stated below.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIraLrY AW. SMITH, Secretary.


June 30, 1914 June 30, 19I
Real estate.......$ 481,655.89 $ 432,690.00
Buildings
University...... 3,350,254.10  2,647.978.09
Psychopathic
Hospital......   78,26,.23   59,464.63
Equipment and
Supplies
University......,921,4909.   1,520,818.94
Psychopathic
Hospital......  I3,012.70   11,765.95
Totals............$5,844,60I.o I  $4,672,717.61


2 Increase
$  48,965.8


702,276.01


IS8,84.60
400,590.15
1,246.75
$I,I71,883.40




102           JANUARY MEETING, 1915
Two requests were received from     Mrs. Margaret E.
Hunt, the surviving donor to the University of certain lands
in Humboldt and Mendocino counties, Californa. These
requests were (I) for the re-imbursement to Mrs. Hunt
of taxes which she had paid, and (2) for the agreement by
the Regents to convey a strip through one of the tracts for
purposes of the highway now being constructed by the State
of California. Accompanying these requests was an opinion
by Dean Bates to the effect that the actions requested by
Mrs. Hunt were in accordance with the provisions of the
deeds of trust under which the lands were conveyed to the
University. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum         of
$918.21, the amount of the taxes in question, was authorized
to be paid to Mrs. Hunt and the signing of the agreement
with respect to the highway was also authorized.
The Secretary presented the following report, addressed
to Regent Bulkley, in the matter of the Octavia W. Bates
estate:HONORABLE H. C. BULKLEY,
Detroit, Michigan.
DEAR SIR: 
In reply to your request for the report of the present
status of the Octavia W. Bates estate, I beg to advise you
as follows:
At your request I visited Baltimore, January 8, and
having checked up the various matters in accordance with
your directions and having verified my checking with the
consultation and help of the firm of lawyers in Baltimore
to whom you referred me, I delivered to Mr. E. J. W.
Revell, the executor of the will, the release signed by the
President under authority from the Regents.
The University has received under this will the following:LAW LIBRARY BEQUEST
Cash from the Executor..............$14,000.00
Interest as part of the University Trust
funds............................  477.85
Total in the Octavia W. Bates Law Library Fund $14,477.85




JANUARY MEETING, 1915                       0o3
GENERAL LIBRARY BEQUiJST
Cash from the Executor, including rents
to date.......................... 6,076.75
Two    houses,  Brice  Street,  Baltimore,
deeds in the University's possession,
appraised  at......................  I,ooo.oo
Three ground rents passing under the
will, appraised at, respectively...... 9,o00.oo
2,4,00.00
I,000.00
Total cash and property from the Executor..........................  $29,476.75
Interest earned on funds in hands of
Treasurer up to January I.........  328.60
Amount in hand January 20, I915.....         $29,805.35
Total amount received under Miss Bates's will
up to the time of the delivery of the release $44,283.20
The Brice Street houses, though subject to ground
rent of $48 per year each, will, I think, net 7% or 8% to the
University. The ground rents will net 6%, less a 5%0 fee on
collections, that is, they will net 5.70%.
I asked Mr. Revell to continue looking after these properties until otherwise advised by the Board of Regents. I
think it would be wise to leave them in h!s hands.
Yours respectfully,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
January 20, 1915                      Secretary.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, this report was accepted
and approved, including approval of the delivery of the
release.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board directed the
printing in the records of that portion of the will of the late
Henry Phillips, Jr., under which the Phillips Scholarships
were endowed. The provisions of the will pertinent to this
matter are as follows:(8) I give devise and bequeath to the Regents of the
University of Michigan and their successors the properties




Io4


J.1.ANUAIRY   1MEETING, 1915


No. 242 Currant Alley (now South W\arnock Street) and
Nos. I025, 1027 & 1029 Eaken Place, which are well rented
and produce an average A-early net income of over $300 and
I recommend that these properties be not sold, mortgaged
or otherwise disposed of as they are in the heart of the
city and are an excellent investment, to be given to the said
Regents and their successors In Trust for the establishment and maintenance of six (6) scholarships in the Department of the said University now known as "The Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts"; the said
scholarship to be known and designated as "The Phillips
scholarships." The annual income accruing from each of
the said scholarships shall be employed for the aid of one
student in the said Department under the following conditions, ' iz:ist. Such income shall be paid only to a student who at
the time of entering upon the studies of the first University
year shall have been found upon examination of the Committee hereinafter mnentioned, to excel in the Greek and
Latin studies required for admission to the University, and
to be of good character and reputation, and who is a candi(late for the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
2d. While holding such scholarship the student shall
devote to the study of Greek and Latin at least one-fourth
(I/4) of the time available for study with the addition during the third or fourth year of three hours weekly recitation or attendance on lectures on such studies, that is to
say he or she shall take at least six (6) full courses of
classical study, as courses are constituted and understood at
this date, and during the third or fourth year, three-fifths
3/5ths) of one full course of such classical study.
3d. Each of the holders of the said scholarships shall
continue to receive the annual income aforesaid in annual
payments on the first day of October until and including the
beginning of the fourth (4th) year of residence at the Universitv when such payment shall cease.
4th. If at any time during the University residence of
the holder of any of the said scholarships he or she shall
have been judged by the Committee hereinafter named to
have forfeited such scholarship by reason of neglect of
studies, impropriety of conduct or behavior or general un



JANUARY MEBETING, 1915


Io5


worthiness of character, he or she shall no longer 1) entitled to receive the income thereof, nor any part of the
same.
5th. The annual award of the aforesaid scholvcrship
shall be made by a Committee consisting of the President
of the University of Michigan, the Dean of the Department of Literature, Science, and Art, and the Senior Professors of Greek and Latin, or in case of the vacancy of the
said chairs by the Greek or Latin instructor next in rank.
But no award shall be made in the absence of more than
one member of such Committee at the meeting for voting
upon such award. Full public notice of all such meetings
shall always be given to the University and its' students.
Three (3) members of the said Committee shall constitute
a quorulm.
6th. The aforesaid Committee shall keep a full and
accurate record of all its actions, and of the scholarship and
conduct of the holder of each scholarship and the holder of
each scholarship shall he required every year before he or
she can receive the annual payment aforesaid to present to
the Treasurer of the University a certificate as to his or
her worthiness, to receive said sum which certificate shall be
signed by the President of the University.
7th. In case of the lapse of any payment or payments
the amount or amounts thus unexpended shall be added to
the principal of the scholarship from which such payment
regularly would have been made.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following were
elected as Regent members of the Board of Trustees of the
State Psychopathic Hospital for the year I9I5: Regent Leland, Regent Clements, Regent Sawyer, and Regent -Iainchett.
The Secretary filed a communication from      MIr.. E. R.
Dunlap, of Detroit, respecting architectural services for the
proposed model school.
A communication was received from     Harold A. Badger,
a student, requesting credit on his tuition    fees for this
year in proportion to the length of time that he was not in
actual attendance during 1913-1914.     The Board laid this
request upon the table.




io6


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


The Regents approved the action of the Auditing Board
in authorizing additional publications in accordance with the
action of the Regents creating the Economics Printing Fund
in October, I9II (see page 271).
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted the sum of
$4oo toward the expenses of an institute for superintendents
of schools to be held at the University during the week of the
meeting of the Michigan Schoolmasters' Club.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board granted leave
of absence to Professor Kelsey for from six to eight weeks
in order that he might go to Italy and divide the library and
take possession of the unpublished manuscripts of the late
Thomas Spencer Jerome, under whose will the University
participates as a beneficiary. On motion of Regent Hubbard the Board directed the payment by the University of
the freight on the books bequeathed to the University under
Mr. Jerome's will.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Professor Jesse S. Reeves
was elected to membership in the Executive Board of the
Graduate Department for the term of seven years, beginning with the present University year voice Dean H. M.
Bates, whose term has expired.
The President stated that the University of Michigan
Club of New York desired the attendance of Dean Vaughan,
Dean Bates, and the Secretary at the annual dinner in New
York City, February 5. On motion of Regent Sawyer, these
officers were sent as delegates to the meeting.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the President and Regent
Beal were appointed a committee, with power, to confer with
the Students' Christian Association and come to an agreement relative to the administration of the Helen H. Newberry Residence Hall.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $9oo was
added to the appropriation of May 29, I913 (see page 723)
for cabinets in the Hill Auditorium to contain the Stearns
Musical Collection.
A request was received from Mr. George B. Horton,
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Michigan




JANUARY MEETING, I915


Io7


State Grange, for the cooperation of the University in the
preparation of standard specifications for galvanizing of
wire fencing. On motion of Regent Hubbard, this request
was granted and the sum of $200 was set aside to meet the
necessary expenses.
Dean Cooley reported the following apparatus received
as a gift from the Edison Illuminating Company, of Detroit:
Thirty-seven meters, switchboard types, including ammeters, voltmeters, wattmeters, power-factor meter, and
ground detectors.
Five instrument-transformers, for current and voltage
measurements.
One relay.
One voltmeter compensator.
Five motor starters.
One field rheostat.
One oil switch.
One lightning arrester.
One small dynamo, continuous-current.
Four circuit-breakers.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the thanks of the Board
were extended to the Edison Illuminating Company for this
generous gift.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board authorized,
beginning with the second semester, a half-time clerk to the
Dean of Women, and authorized the purchase of the necessary office equipment. The Superintendent of Grounds was
requested to report upon the feasibility and the cost of providing a private office in the Barbour Gymnasium for the
Dean of Women.
Professor Trueblood communicated to the Regents a
letter from Mr. Luman W. Goodenough, of Detroit, as attorney for the heirs of the late John S. Gray, stating that
the estate would contribute the sum of $375 per year for
ten years to provide testimonials of $50 each to six students who shall represent the University of Michigan in
debates each year and in addition to provide a gold medal
for each such debater. It was a provision that the testimo



io8


JANUARY MEETING, 191


nials should be known as and should be published in the
proper University bulletins as "The John S. Gray Medals
and Testimonials for Public Speaking." On motion of Regent Hubbard, the thanks of the Regents were voted to
these donors.
A communication was received from Professor Warthin
stating the inadequacy of the Medical Library fund.     On
motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $5oo was added to
the Mledical Library fund on condition that such appropriation should be formally approved by the Medical Committee of the Regents.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate Department,
degrees were voted as follows:MASTER 01 SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Reuben Simkin Tour, B.S. (Ch.E.), I91o
EOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Robert Lee Jickling, B.S., I9II
Alvin Daniel Schuessler, A.B., Central Wesleyan College, I9o5; B.D., ibid, I9o7; A.M., Northwestern University,
1907
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following appointments made by the Secretary were approved and confirmed:
Ruth V. Wheelock, Assistant in Mathematics, vice Forrest
R. Baker, deceased, for the remainder of the University
year from January 5, 1915, with salary at the rate of
$300 per year.
Jesse B. Proper, Assistant in Wireless Telegraphy, for the
University year I914-1915, at $50 per year.
Guy R. Cowing, Assistant in Wireless Telegraphy, for the
University year I914-I915, at $5o per year.
Flenrietta MacBride, Stenographer and Clerk in the Chemical Laboratory and the School of Pharmacy, from December 28, I914, with salary at the rate of $600 per year,
twelve months' basis.




JANUARY MEETING, 1915


IO9


Frances Olive Lindsey, Stenographer and Clerk in the Pathology department, from December 28, 1914, half time,
with salary at the rate of $300 per year, twelve months'
basis.
Clair W. Ditchy, Student Assistant in Architecture, for the
remainder of the first semester from December 2, I914,
with salary at the rate of $50 for the semester.
J. Speed Rogers, Assistant in Zoology, vice Winnafred J.
Shepard, resigned, for the final two-fifths of the first
semester and for all of the second semester of the University year I914-I915, with salary at the rate of $200
for the year.
Mina L. Winslow, Assistant in Zoology, vice Winnafred J.
Shepard, resigned, for the final two-fifths of the first
semester and for all of the second semester of the University year 19I4-I915, salary increased to the rate of
$200 per year on account of additional duties.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed the payment of the bill of Mr. D. W. Springer for services as Auditor, amounting to $I35, covering nine days at $15 each.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Secretary was directed to place before the Board at the next meeting rates
under which various insurance companies would agree to
carry the University's Workmen's Compensation policy for
the ensuing year. The Secretary was further instructed to
continue the present policy, if possible, in the meantime.
The request of the members of the staff of the department of Botany for the promotion of their colleague, Mr.
A. J. Pieters, was referred, on motion of Regent Hubbard,
to the Executive Committee, with power.
A communication was received from the Faculty of the
College of Dental Surgery recommending that one year of
academic work should Le required for admission to the College of Dental Surgery beginning with the session of I916 -I9I7.  This recommendation was conditioned upon the
agreement of a sufficient number of dental colleges to ensure the permanency and success of the plan. On motion
of Regent Sawyer, the Board directed that Dean Hoff be
informed that the Regents will entertain and, under proper
conditions, favor an increase of the requirements for admission to the College of Dental Surgery.




IIO


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, degrees were voted and Teachers' Diplomas
granted as follows:BACHELOR OF ARTS
William Tinker Hollands (as of the class of 1913)
Kenneth Dean Osborn (as of the class of 1914)
TEACHER'S DIPLOMA
Frank C. Janes
Arthur Louis McCarty
On motion of Regent Beal, the following appointments
and changes in the staff of the Summer Session of I915 were
made as recommended by Acting Dean Kraus:LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Romance Languages
HOURS SALARY
Professor  M. Levi......................  32  $250.00
Professor J. R. Effinger................. 32  250.00
Junior Professor H. P. Thieme......... 64    4o00.
Junior Professor C. P. Wagner......... 64     400.00
Assistant Professor W. A. McLaughlin.. 96      400.00
Instructor P. E. Bursley............... 96    300.00
Instructor H. V. Wann................. 96     300.00
History
Professor F. L. Paxon................. 64     500.00
Political Ecolnomiy and Sociology
Assistant Professor G. W. Dowrie....... 96     400.00
Instructor WX. S. Thompson............ 96     300.00
Instructor F. E. Armstrong..............  96   300.00
Instructor R. G. Rodkey................ 64    200.00
Political Science
Assistant Professor R. T. Crane........ 64    266.67
Edzucation
Assistant Professor F. S. Breed......... 32   133.33
(additional)
The appointment of Assistant Professor
C. S. Berry to be cancelled.




JANUARY MEETING, 915 


I I I


Mathematics
Junior Professor P. Field............... 32      200.00
Instructor A. L. Miller................. 32     I00oo.oo
The appointment of Assistant Professor
J. W. Bradshaw to be cancelled.
Mineralogy
Assistant A. B. Peck...................          50.00
Botany
Assistant Professor C. H. Kauffman..... 96       400.00
DEPARTMENTS OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
English
Assistant Professor W. D. Moriart..... 32        133.33
(instead of 96)
Instructor 0. C. Marckwardt........... 64       200.00
(additional)
German
Assistant Professor W. F. Hauhart...... 96       400.00
Instructor E. Wild...................... 64     200.00
Mathematics
Instructor L. A. Hopkins...............  80     250.00
Instructor V. C. Poor..................  8o     250.00
Instructor L. J. Rouse.................. 96      300.00
Drawilg
Junior Professor H. J. Goulding........ 95      400.00
Instructor N. J. Orbeck................ 96     300.00
Surveyitng
Assistant Professor H. H. Atwell....... 96      400.o0
Engineering Mcchalnics
Instructor J. A. Van den Broek......... 96      300.00
Elecrical Engineering
Professor B. F. Bailey................  32  250.00
Professor H. H. Higbie................ 32       250.00
Assistant Professor A. H. Lovell....... 96      400.o0
Assistant Professor T. J. MacKavanagh..   95     400.00
Instructor J. F. Wilson................. 96     300.00




I 12


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


Chemlical.Elngineering
Professor E. E. Ware.................. 64  500.00
Assistant Professor A. E. White........ 96  400.00
Instructor W. L. Badger............... 64  300.00.4rchitecture
Professor L. H. Boynton............... 32  250.00
Assistant Professor G. M. McConkey.... 32   I33.33
LAW
Professor F. C. Woodward (Contracts I,
Sales, Quasi Contracts)................  I,00000
BIOLOGICAL STATION
Zoology
Instructor  WV. W. Cort.................  So  250.00
The appointment of Instructor P. Okkelberg to be cancelled.
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Analomny
Instructor L. A. Hoag.................   $I50.oo
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to excuse holders of the so-called industrial fellowships from
the payment of laboratory fees.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Mr. F. W. Peterson, already appointed as Instructor in English (Engineering Department) for the first semester, was continued for the
second semester at the same salary, namely, $I,ooo per
year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the request that the staff
of the English department (Engineering) should next year
incude eight men instead of seven, was referred to the
Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, M\r. Leon A. Makielskl
was appointed Instructor in Architecture for the second
semester of the present University year, with salary at the
rate of $1,200 per year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, leave of absence, without salary was granted to Professor H. C. Anderson for the
second semester of the present University year, provided a
satisfactory substitute should be available.




JANUARY MEETING, 1915


II3


Regent Hubbard presented the following communication from Dean Cooley:I have pleasure in transmitting the following list of
donations to the Department of Engineering and beg to
recommend that the thanks of the Regents be extended to
the donors.
Civil Engineerilg
Two handsome volumes entitled, "History of the Flood
of 1913." Presented by Mr. Thomas Rodd, Chief Engineer
of the Pennsylvania Lines West of Pittsburgh.
Mechanical Engiceering
One 4-cylinder Reynolds Rotary valve automobile engine. Presented by the Paige Detroit Motor Car Company,
Detroit, Michigan. This engine is a distinct addition to our
automobile equipment. The value of this engine is about
$1,000.
One cross-section model of Penberthy Injector, presented by the Penberthy Injector Company, Detroit.
One DeWitt muffler, presented by the DeWitt Muffler
Company, Detroit.
Electrical Engineering
Inductor alternator of 35 KW rating, taken from the.
Dexter station of the Eastern Michigan Edison Company,
and presented by that Company. This piece of apparatus
will be very useful for teaching purposes.
Six old transformers, which will be very useful for
us in connection with our work; presented by the Detroit
Edison Company.
Respectfully,
M. E. COOIvY.
January 13, I915.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the gifts were accepted
and the Secretary was directed to communicate the thanks
of the Regents to the donors.
The request of Dean Cooley for the employment of an
additional instructor in Chemical Engineering for the second semester at the salary rate of $1,200 was referred to the
Committees of the Engineering and Literary Departments,
with power.




II4


JANUARY MEETING, 1915


Dean Cooley communicated the resignation of Mr. S. R
Thomas as Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, to take
effect at the end of the first semester. Upon motion of Regent Hubbard, the filling of this vacancy was referred to
the Executive Committee, with power.
On motion of Regent Beal, a communication from Dean
Cooley with respect to salaries in the Department of Engineering and also the matters discussed by Dean Cooley
when he appeared before the Regents earlier in the session,
were referred to the Budget Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law, the degree
of Bachelor of Laws was voted to William Jacob Sprow.
A communication from the Administrative Committee
of the Botanical Garden outlining plans for the Garden for
II95-I916 and following years, was referred to the Budget
Committee with favorable recommendation for the proposals
relating to I915-I916.
A communication requesting the financial cooperation
of the Regents with the work of the International Bureau
of Students was, on motion of Regent Hubbard, laid upon
the table.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On   motion, the Board  adjourned  to  Wednesday,
February Io, at io A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY O I MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, FEBRUARY 1O, I915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io o'clock A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Hubbard,
Regent Bulkley, Regent Gore, Regent Clements, and Regent
Hanchett. Absent, Regent Beal and Regent Sawyer, who
later took their seats, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the January meeting were approved as submitted in proof, with
minor changes.
Regent Beal took his seat.
Regent Hanchett reported that a photographer had been
allowed in the Homoeopathic Hospital, with salary at the
rate of $200 per year from January I, payable out of the
amount originally allowed in the Homoeopathic Medical
School budget for the salary of Dr. Burrett, now resigned.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
the purchase of a motion picture machine out of the Science
Building equipment fund.
The Secretary stated that it was his opinion, after investigation, that the resources of the Health Service Fund
would permit the increase in salary voted to Dr. H. H. Cummings at the January meeting (see page 97.)
Regent Clements reported informally as to the conditions
in the Waterman Gymnasium and there ensued a general
discussion.
Professor Lane and Dean Bates appeared with respect
to matters of joint interest to the Students' Christian Association and the Michigan Union.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
It was informally agreed to leave the Michigan UnionStudents' Christian Association matter until the next meeting of the Regents under the same conditions agreed to at
the January meeting (see page 97.)




II6


I;FEBRUARY MEETING, I9I5


l'rofessor Lane retired, and Dean Bates remained and
addressed the Board relative to the necessities of the Law
School for the present and for the immediate future.
Following the retirement of Dean Bates, on motion of
Regent Clements, the Board directed that $15,000 should be
added, from the General Fund, to the Fund for the Equipment of the Science Building.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board set aside from
the General Fund the sum of $19,752.50 for the construction
work on the new Botanical Garden, favorably recommended
to the Budget Committee for I9I5-I916 (see page 114.)
The Secretary filed a letter from Dr. James G. Van
Zwaluwenburg stating his acceptance of the conditions imposed when his salary was increased (see January meeting,
page 98.)
(n motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized the
publication of a Bulletin of Information to the Legislature
the citizens of the State, similar to the Bulletin of Information of 1913.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Whereas, The great growth in attendance has resulted
in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions at the Waterman Gymnasium, requiring increased capacity to meet the
present demands and care for the constantly growing requirements for future accommodations, be it
Resolved, That the Buildings and Grounds Committee
be requested to prepare suitable plans and specifications for
such improvements as may be necessary to meet the present
demands and provide for the future at a cost not to exceed
$50,0o0.
The Secretary presented a report relative to fees charged
in this University and in other state universities. On motion
of Regent Beal, this report was referred to the Deans of
the various Departments with the request that each Dean
report at the next meeting of the Board, giving his views
with respect to a possible change in the fees charged in his
College or School.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Athletic Association
was asked to find other offices as soon as possible, and the




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915


I I7


Buildings and Grounds Department was directed to remove
the house now serving as offices for the Athletic Association, as soon as the Athletic Association should move out.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board set aside $525
to meet the following expenses: private office for Dean of
Women, office equipment, postage and stationery, and salary
of a stenographer, half-time, during the remainder of the
year.
Regent Sawyer reported that the Medical Commitee,
under authority given at the January meeting, had allowed
an addition of $500 to the Medical Library Fund (see page
108.)
The Secretary presented bids from various casualty
insurance companies for the University workmen's compensation policy for the ensuing year. On motion of Regent
Clements, the Board authorized the placing of this policy
with the Union Casualty Insurance Company of Philadelphia, the lowest bidder.
The President presented the following report which was,
on motion of Regent Hubbard, accepted and adopted.
To the Honorable Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan.
Gentlemen:The Committees of the Literary and Engineering Colleges, to whom was referred with power at the last meeting
of the Board the matter of an additional instructor in
Chemical Engineering,, beg leave to report as follows:Having heard the argument of Professor White to the
effect that the enlargement and scope of instruction have
materially increased the labor of the instructors, we report
favorably on,the application for an instructor at $1200 in
Chemical Engineering.
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON LITERARY COLLEGE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL,
LucIus L. HUBBARD.
'COMMITTEE ON ENGINEERING COLLEGE:
Lucius L. HUBBARD,
FRANK B. LEIAND.
Ann Arbor, Mich., January 22, I915.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Hubbard, Joseph Stanley Laird
was appointed to the Instructorship in Chemical Engineering above provided for, at the salary rate of $I,200 per year.
This appointment cancels Dr. Laird's previous appointment
as Instructor in Chemistry, it being understood, however,
that during the second semester of this year Dr. Laird will
continue to carry four hours of class work in qualitative
analysis.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the payment of $2,500 on account to Mr. Albert Kahn for
services as architect and superintendent of the new Science
Building.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board added the
sum of $6o to the appropriation of November 27 for printing the early Regents Proceedings.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board directed that,
beginning with the second semester of the present University year, the salary of Dr. Reuben Peterson as Medical
Director of the University Hospital should be fixed at $500
per year.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board directed the purchase of property owned by Marion W;heelock near the
Power Plant and west of the railroad, at the sum of $2,500,
provided satisfactory title could be given.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON      SESSION
On reassembling there were present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Hanchett. Absent, Regent Gore, Regent Leland, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
following resolution:With the approval of the donors of the Martha Cook
Building and subject to change at their request, it is hereby
Resolved, That the Martha Cook Building be placed
under the management andi control of a board of three




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915


II9


'women to be appointed by the Board of Regents, which
board shall be designated as a Board of Governors.
The terms of those appointed on the original board shall
expire, one, January I,, I916; one, January I, I917; and one
on January I, I918. After ithe original appointments there
shall be appointed one each year for the term of three years
from January I of the year for which appointment is made.
The management and control of the dormitory by the
Board of Governors shall be limited by the condition of
the gift of the dormitory.
The Board of Governors shall deposit all cash received
from every source with the Treasurer of the University in
'such a manner that his record shall show for what purpose it was paid in.
The moneys shall be disbursed by the Treasurer of the
University on vouchers signed by the duly authorized agent
of the Board of Governors.
The Board of Governors shall have no authority to enter
into any obligations which will involve a liability of the
University without having first obtained the authority to do
so from the Board of Regents, or its authorized agents.
The Board of Governors shall receive no compensation
except such actual expenses as are incurred by them in
attending to the affairs of the dormitory. These necessary
expenses shall be paid from dormitory receipts upon itemized
vouchers properly filed and attested.
Mrs. Louise Cook of Hillsdale, Michigan, is hereby appointed as a member of the Board of Governors, her term
to expire January I, I918.
'Miss Grace Millard, of Detroi't, Michigan, is hereby appointed as a member of ithe Board of Governors, her term
to expire January I, 1917.
Mrs. Frederick B. Stevens, of Detroit, Michigan, is
hereby appointed as a member of the Board of Governors,
her term to expire January I, I916.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the petition of Senior and
Junior Medical students for remission of locker fees at the
University Hospital was denied.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board declined to
authorize financial co-operation with the South American
lecture tour proposed by Miss Annie S. Peck.
The Secretary presented a letter from the Architects'
Business Association of Michigan expressing the thanks of




120         FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915
that organization for the use of Alumni Memorial Hall
for a meeting on February 5.
A letter addressed to the Regents by Dr. M. A. Patterson, of Port Huron, Michigan, relative to the Homoeopathic
Hospital, was referred directly to the Chairman of the Homoeopathic Medical School Committee.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the traveling expense
vouchers of Regent Leland, from January 27, 1914 to January 21, I915, inclusive, amounting to $31.55, were approved.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the President and Secretary were authorized to sign the formal release, requested
by the Trustee, embodying the action taken at the meeting
of October, I9I4 (see page 5), with respect to the construing of the terms of the will of the late Williston S. Hough.
The President presented letters from alumni urging that
military drill and instruction be given in the University. On
motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted that the subject of giving certain forms of military instruction in the
University should be referred to a committee of five, of
which the President should be the Chairman and of which
the other members should be appointed by him. The President appointed Regent Hubbard, Regent Hanchett, Regent
Bulkley, and Regent Sawyer.
The President presented a resolution taken by the Ann
Arbor Branch of Collegiate Alumnae, as follows:Resolved, That the desirability be presented to the President of the University of having the social heads of the
new dormitories women of college training and academic
ideals, and that the Corresponding Secretary send this
*recommendation to the President of the University.
Regent Hanchett presented a letter from Mr. Frank R.
Pancoast. of Hastings, a member of the Michigan State
Board of Examiners in Optometry, requesting that instruction in optometry should be given in the University. On
motion of Regent Hanchett, this request was referred to the
Deans of the Medical Schools with the request for a report
at the next meeting of the Regents.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915


121


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the
course of the President in sending Professor Robert T.
Crane for conferences with municipal officials of the State
to assist these officials in solving their municipal problems.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
Alfred Eckert           Elmer Warren Miller
Gonza'lo Garcia         Floyd' Chester Morse
August Paul Heinze      Freeman Nelson Pattison
Laurence George Lenhardt Abraham Solomon
John Hugo Ludwig        Glenn Adelbert Woodhouse
BACHELOR OF MECHANICAL, ENGINEERING
Everett Leonard Bentley  Leonard Boris Moiseyeff
John Merkel Loeblein
BACHEI OR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Elmer Dan King          William Dudley Baker
Russell Albert Yerington
BACHELOR OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Robert Atkinson         Lee Darwin Boyce
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (CHEMICAL ENGINEERING)
Fred Leroy Woods, as of the class of19o4
BACHELOR OF MARINE ENGINEERING
John Ernest Lebret      Joseph L. Silverman
Dean Cooley communicated to the Board that an error
had been made in transmitting to the November meeting
-the name of Mr. George Collingwood for a degree (see page
41). On motion of Regent Hubbard, the error was corrected and the degree conferred on Mr. Collingwood was
changed from Bachelor of Science in Engineering to Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering.




122


FEBRUARY MEETING, I915


On motion of Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer and Professor C. W. Edmunds were appointed as official delegates of
the University to the Conference on Medical Education to
be held in Chicago, February 15, G6, and 17.
The President presented the following report of the Executive Committee which was, on motion of Regent Hubbard, approved and the appointment was confirmed.
To the (Honorable Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan.
Gentlemen:'The Regents at the January meeting granted leave of
absence without salary to Professor H. C. Anderson for the
second semester of the present university year, provided a
'satisfactory substitute be available. Dean-M.!E. Cooley, of
the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, under date
of February I, I915, recommended to the President the
appointment of Commander John Howard Rowen, U. S.
Navy (retired), to take Professor Anderson's work during
the second' semester at the 'salary rate of $i8oo per year,
namely, at $90o for the second semester. In this communication Dean Cooley requested that, as it was necessary for
Commander Rowen to make arrangements at once in order
to take up the work at the beginning of the second semester,
the appointment be acted upon by 'the Executive Committee.
Under the showing presented, your 'Committee made the
appointment at a meeting held February 4, I915, and request that the appointment be confirmed by the Board. Dean
Cooley's l'etter to the President in regard to this matter is
hereto attached.
Respectfully submitted,
Ex;cuTviv COM MITmES
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BrAIL
WALTER H. SAWYER.
Ann Arbor, Mich., February 9, I915,
On recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic
Medical School the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon Sadie Louise Omey and James Chester Dan 
forth.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915


123 -

On motion of Regent Clements, a request for Sunday
opening of the Zoological TMuseum was laid upon the table.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board referred to
the Budget Committee the following' resolution transmitted
by Dean Guthe of the Graduate School:Whereas, A request by the Executive Board for the
sum of $750.00 for the publication of a monograph by Mr.
W. B. Ford, was laid upon the table at the meeting of your
Honorable Board in March, 1914, and
Whereas, It seems highly desirable that this monograph
be published in the immediate future,
The Executive Board of the Graduate School respectfully recommends that the matter be taken from the
table and again urges upon you that $750.0oo be appropriated
by your Honorable Board for the publication of this volume.
On motion of Regent Hanchett and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Advisory Board of the Biological
Station, the Regents named the new laboratory at the Biological Station the Douglass THoughton Laboratory. In order to safeguard the health of the members of the Biological
Station, the Board directed that every person in attendance,
in any capacity, be required to pay the regular health service fee of $i. The Regents further directed that the facilities of the Biological Station should be offered annually to
a limited number of biologists of recognized ability for the
purpose of investigation, upon the payment (in addition to
their personal expenses for board, transportation, etc.,) of
the camp and health service fees, $2 per week and $I for
the season, respectively.
On motion of Regent HIanchett, the following appointments for the Summer Session of 1015, in accordance with
the budget, were made as recommended by Dean Kraus.
History
Assistant Prof. F. B. Marsh, 64 hrs.............$266.67
Chemistry
Instructor E. C. Sherrard, 96 hrs...............  300.00
Zoology
Assistant E. W. Sink..........................  I25.00




124


FEBRUARY MEETING, 19I5


Biological Station
Norman Asa Woodl, Assistant in Ornithology.... Ioo.oo
Mary Esther Elder, Research Assistant in Botany  5o.oo
Minnie Elizabeth Watson, Research Assistant in
Zoology...................................  50.00
Walter E. Rogers, Assistant in Botany..........  50.00
Irwin Dave Simonson, Assistant in Zoology.... 50.00
Embalming and Sanitary Science
Carroll D. Partridge, Instructor in Bacteriology
and Sanitary Science....................... I50.00
Clifford G. Askin, Instructor in Practical Embalm ing....................................  200.00
Special Lecturers
President Thomas C. Blaisdell (Alma)..........  25.00
Superintendent S. O. Hartwell (Kalamazoo).... 25.00
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon the
following:Perry Jay Lockwood         Wallace J. Tripp
Raphael Marcar Serijan, A.B., Anatolia College.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, the certificate of
graduation from    the University Hospital Training School
for Nurses was conferred upon the following:'Hazel A. Seibert           Anna Gaffney
Lydia J. Olson              Florence Allmendinger
Olive Elizabeth Mudge      Ruth A. Dunham
Estella Pettit              Grace Ellesworth Wells
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved and
confirmed the following appointments made by the Secre-tary in accordance with the budget: :Edwin A. Boyd, Laboratory Assistant in the Highway
'Laboratory, for five months beginning February I, 1915,
at $50 a 'month.
'Floyd R. Town, Assistant in Internal 'Homceopathic Medicine, vice Henry J. Burrell, resigned, from February I,
1915 to the end of the 'University year, with salary at
the rate of $0oo per year.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1915


I25


Camp C. Thomas, Photographer and Assistant in X-Ray
Laboratory, Homcopathic Hospital, from  January I,
1915 to the end of the University year, with salary of
$I00.
Irma A. Walter, Assistant. Inventory Clerk and Stenographer, from January I, I915, with salary at the rate
of $6oo per year, twelve months' basis.
Russell V. Allman, Assistant in Physics, for the University
year I9I4-I915,, with salary of $60o.
John T. Connell, Assistant in Bacteriology, for the University year I914-I915, with salary of $500.
Robert R. Dieterle, Technical Assistant in Pathology, for the
University year I914-I915, with salary of $6oo.
Abert J. Hall, Assistant in Porcelain, College of Dental
Surgery, for the University year 1914-1915, without
salary.
L. Coleman Ludlum, Assistant in Physiological Chemistry,
for the University year I914-I915, with salary of $6oo.
Bessie A. Parsons, Assistant in Roentgenology, for the
University year I914-1915,, with salary of $480.
Warren W. Spangler, Student Assistant in Waterman Gymnasium, for the University year I914-I915, with salary of
$I00.
Crystal Thompsson, Assistant in the Zoological Museum, for
the University year I914-I915, with salary of $700.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley summarizing the points made by him in addressing the Board at
the January meeting (see page 99).
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the communication of Dean Cooley regarding the needs of the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture, 'merits mature consideration and early action.
A communication was received from      Dean Cooley urging certain co-operation, in making tests and otherwise with
the work of the State Highway Department. On motion of
Regent Hubbard, the Board set aside the sum of $1,500 for
this proposed State Highway work on condition that the
co-operation of the University could be had without displacing or otherwise interfering with the regular work of
the University.




126         FEBRUARY M1EETING, I915
A communication was received from Dean Bates inviting
the Regents to be present at the Washington's Birthday exercises to be held in Hill Auditorium, February 22.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board directed that
the expenses for cab hire in taking the Legislative Committees about the Campus on the occasion of their inspection
of the University, February 8, and the cost of the luncheon
provided at the Michigan Union at noon on that day, should
be paid out of the Woodward Avenue Lease Fund.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to March 25, at Io A.M.
SHIRLEiY WV. SMITH,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING
UN\IVERSITY OF M\[ICIIIGAN, 1
ANN ARIBOR, March 25, 1915.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io A. AM. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Bulkley and Regent Hanchett,
who later took their seats, and Regent Hubbard.
The minutes of the meeting of February Io, as submitted
in proof to the members, were approved on motion of
Regent Beal, with corrections on pages 1 iS and 124.
Regent BIulklev took his seat.
Messrs. Benson W. Hardy, Ernest Eimer, and Emil
Arnold appeared before the Regents as representatives of
the State Board of Examiners in Optometry and requested
the Regents to establish courses in Optometry in the department of Physics. During the remarks by these gentlemen,
Regent Hanchett took his seat. The Board left a decision
upon'the question of establishing courses in optometry to a
future date.
On motion of Regent Gore the Executive Committee
was authorized to settle the matter of an additional man
or additional men in the department of Economics, should
it be necessary to settle this question finally between Regents' meetings.
Regent Clements presented sketches of proposed alterations in the Waterman Gymnasium. On motion of Regent
IBeal, the Board referred to the Buildings and Grounds
Committee the matter of enlarging the Waterman Gymnasium, with authority to secure bids to be presented at the
next meeting of the Regents.
Reports were received from the Deans of several of the
Schools and Colleges making recommendations with respect
to fees to be charged students. On motion of Regent Bulkley, these reports were referred to the Executive Committee




I28


MlARCH MEETING, 1915


and the Secretary for comprehensive consideration and i-eport at the next meeting.
Regent Leland presented as possible investment of trust
funds certain mortgages offered by Baird & Baird, of Kansas
City. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that
the property securing these mortgages should be inspected
and appraised by a representative of the University and if
the security were found satisfactory, investments of University trust funds up to the amount of $24,000 should be
made therein.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board added $185.43
to the Power Plant equipment account, and $235.24 to the
account for moving the old Psychological Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Clements, $2,000 was set aside to
meet the cost of lines for carrying electric current from the
Power Plant to the hospitals, nurses' homes, and certain
other buildings now furnished with electricity direct from
che Eastern Michigan Edison Company.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the purchase, at not to exceed $1200 cost, of property adjoining the coal storage at the Power Plant.
On motion of Regent Clements, $75 was added to the
appropriation for the reserve book section in the General
Library.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board voted that the
hospital record, including the X-Ray skiograph, of Harriet
Burke be copied and turned over to her attorney in the
case of Burke vs. Pinkham and Wright, if requested by
the attorney; and that the same record should be turned over
to the defendant's attorney on request in writing from the
plaintiff's attorney.
Regent Bulkley reported in the matter of the proposed
bequest through the Detroit Trust Company that the testator
had decided not to make the bequest (see Proceedings, page
41).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board added to the
current expense budget of the University Hospital, for the
hiring of graduate nurses, the sum of $571.43, paid by patients at the hospital thus far during this fiscal year for the
services of special nurses.




MARCH MEETING, 1915


I29


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the traveling expense
account of Regent Clements from July 22, I914 to February
Io, I915, was approved in the sum of $123.38.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Executive Committee
was authorized to purchase certain lots adjacent to the University Hospital grounds at a cost not exceeding $5Ioo in all,
provided proper title could be given.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2 P. M. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett. Absent, Regent Hubbard, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board directed that
the annual Commencement Dinner should be discontinued
and that in its place a luncheon should be tendered gratis to
the alumni on Wednesday, Alumni Day, of Commencement
Week, at an estimated cost of fifty cents per plate. The
Secretary was informally directed to secure information
with respect to the purchase or rental of equipment which it
might be necessary to provide in order to serve the alumni
luncheon.
The Secretary presented a claim for services by the
Hicks Detective Service, of Detroit, against Mrs. Mary
Galligan-Colon, an employee of the University Hospital.
The Regents took no action in this matter.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Francis E. Senear
was appointed Instructor in Syphilology and Dermatology,
vice Dr. John H. Stokes, resigned, the appointment to take
effect on March I, at the salary of $9oo per year.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board referred to the
Buildings and Grounds Committee for report the question of
the desirability of elevator insurance.
The Board referred to Dean Cooley a communication
from Edward J. Clarke, of Detroit, relative to the causes of
boiler explosions.




130


MARCH MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution,vas adopted:Resolved, That in the case of Health Service fees, the
same as with respect to all other University fees, credit for
University work shall not be given to any student until all
fees properly chargeable to him for the semester are paid.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Superintendent Marks
was requested to confer with the Board of Fire Commissioners of Ann Arbor to determine the price that should be
charged the city for the use of the University's high pressure water mains in case of fires adjacent to the Campus.
The request of Mr. Albert Hyma for a loan from the
University trust funds was referred to the President and
Secretary, with power.
A communication was received from Dean Bates transmitting a letter from Mr. Albert H. Walker stating that he
could no longer continue to serve as non-resident lecturer in
the Law School. On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Regents
accepted Mlr. WValker's communication with appreciation of
the services which he had rendered in the past.
The President presented letters from Mrs. Louise Stock
Cook, Mrs. Frederic Beckwith Stevens, and Miss Grace
Grieve Millard accepting appointment to the Board of Governors of the Martha Cook Building (see page II8).
The President filed a communication from the Secretary
of the Michigan Society Sons of the American Revolution,
requesting endorsement of the bill before the Michigan Legislature for placing replicas of the Houdon statufe of Washington in the State Capitol and in the State University.
The President presented a letter from Mr. Walter Gradle, of Chicago, Ill., transmitting a check for $Iooo to constitute the Mary Skeels Gradle Memorial Fund, the interest
upon which should be used under the direction of the Hospital Committee, for the benefit of the children's ward in
the University Hospital. On motion of Regent Sawyer,
this gift was accepted, and the thanks of the Regents were
voted to Mr. Gradle.
A communication from the Student Council, through
Mr. H. M. Lacy, its President, relative to the need for fire




MARCH MEETIANG, 19I5


I3r


escapes on the North Wing of University HIall, was laid
upon the table.
Upon motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $500 was
added to the current expense account of the College of Dental Surgery.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, in accordance with the
suggestion of Professor Tealdi, an invitation was extended
to the Seventh National Conference on City Planning, which
will meet in Detroit in June next, to hold one session in Hill
Auditorium.
A communication was received from Professor A. A.
Stanley stating that Mr. J. E. Whitsit, of the DeWitt Clinton
High School of New York City, had presented the University with a unique and valuable square piano, for the collection of musical instruments. On motion of Regent Beal,
this gift was accepted and the thanks of the Regents were
extended to Mr. Whitsit.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of
Bachelor of Laws was conferred upon Bradley Morris
Thomas and Earl Salisbury Wolaver.
The Secretary presented communications from Messrs.
C. L. Beach and Manly P. Furnum offering certain lots
owned by them respectively to the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the President and Dean
Guthe were appointed as delegates of the University to the
meetings of the Association of American Universities and
the National Association of State Universities to be held in
Berkeley, California, during the summer, with traveling
expenses to be paid by the University if they should attend.
An invitation was received from Professor Trueblood
inviting the Regents to attend the first annual debate of the
Midwest Debating League to be held in University Hall,
March 26.
On motion of Regent Beal, Samuel J. Skinner was appointed as Assistant in Oratory for the remainder of the
second semester with salary of $Ioo from March I.
A communication was received from Professor W. H.
Hobbs advising the Regents of a gift from Sir Douglas




I32


MARCH MEETING, 1915


Mawson of a collection of lantern slides. On motion of
Regent Beal, this gift was accepted with thanks.
A communication from Dr. Elsie S. Pratt was referred
to the Budget Committee.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley transmitting an inquiry from Professor Johnston with respect to
medical services to be furnished at the engineering camp
during the summer. The Secretary was directed to advise
Dean Cooley that attendance at the Bogardus Engineering
Camp and the Biological Laboratory was a part of the regular duties of Dr. C. B. Stouffer.
A communication from the Chairman of the Board in
Control of Athletics requested the Regents to appoint a
committee of three to meet with three members of the
Board in Control of Athletics and three members to be appointed by the University Senate to confer upon matters
pertaining to athletics. On motion of Regent Sawyer, such
Committee was authorized and the President appointed
Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal, and Regent Bulkley.
The President presented:a communication from the officials of the Polish National Alliance of America, suggesting
the establishment in the University under certain conditions
of a Professorship in the Polish language and literature.
Action upon this communication was deferred until a later
meeting.
A communication from Professors H. A. Sanders and
Campbell Bonner relative to the administration of the Phillips Scholarships Fund was, on motion of Regent Beal, referred to Dean Bates for his opinion with respect to the
power of the Regents, under the terms of the bequest, to
comply with the suggestions made by Professors Sanders
and Bonner.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed the
payment of the mortgage of $650, with interest amounting to
$20.37 on the following property to which the University
has deed subject to the mortgage: The east three rods in
width of lots 6 and 15, in block 3, north of Huron Street,
range I5 E, Ingalls addition to the City of Ann Arbor.




MARCH     MEETING, 1915               133
A communication from Director E. D. Campbell of the
Chemical Laboratory suggesting the transfer of the work
in Chemical Engineering to another building was laid on the
table.
On motion of Regent Leland, the salary of Michael Condon, as Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory Dispensing
Room, was fixed at $480 per year to date from April I,
I915, with lessening of duties, and the employment of an
additional assistant at the salary of $550 per year from such
date was authorized.
A communication was received from Professor Roth
suggesting the purchase of land for the Forestry department.
No action was taken.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board added to the
budget such sum as might be necessary to rewrite, for five
years at pro rata cost, the fire insurance policies which have
now run approximately three years or more. The amount
necessary to be added to the budget is understood to be
about $3150.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board denied the petition of Mr. H. P. Williamson to be regarded as a Michigan
student for the purpose of registration.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board confirmed the
following appointments by the Secretary to positions for
which compensation is already provided in the budget:E. V. Rice, Assistant in Pharmacy, for the second semester
of the University year I914-I915, with salary of $Ioo
for the semester.
William J. Hiller, Assistant in Mathematics, vice H. L. Harrington, resigned, for the second semester of the University year I914-I915, with salary of $I50 for the
semester.
H. A. Enos, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering,
vice S. G. Baits, resigned, for the second semester of
the University year I914-I915, with salary of $50 for
the semester.
M. H. Toncray, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering,
vice S. G. Baits, resigned, for the second semester of
the University year I914-I915, with salary of $50 for
the semester.




134             MARCH MEETING, 1915
I. N. Cuthbert, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering,
vice E. D. King, resigned,, for the second semester of
the University year I914-I915, with salary of $50 for
the semester.
George B. Hammond, Student Assistant in Architecture,
vice R. S. Westbrook, resigned, for the second semester
of the University year I914-I915, with salary of $50 for
the semester.
John C. Abbott, Assistant in Scientific Shop Management,
for the second semester of the University year I914 -1915, with salary of $Ioo for the semester.
Phillip B. Dippel, Student Assistant in the Engineering
Shops, vice R. E. Babcock, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year I914-I915, with salary
of $Ioo for the semester.
Albertine Church, Stenographer in the University Hospital,
vice Olive Smith, resigned, from January 27, 1915, with
salary at the rate of $40 per month.
Robert J. Snider, Jr., Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy,
half-time, for five months from February I, I915, with
salary of $35 per month.
Jay H. Schmidt, Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry, vice J. C. Das Gupta, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year 1914-1915, without
salary.
Lawrence E. Blood, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, for the second semester of the University year
I914-I915, with salary of $Ioo for the semesterBertha C. Pulford, Stenographer to the Dean of Women,
half-time from February 8, 1915, with beginning salary
at the rate of $20 per month.
Clarence B. Goshorn, Assistant in English History, vice
Fred B. Foulk, resigned, for the second semester of
the University year I914-I915, with salary of $200 for
the semester.
Earle Barnes, Assistant in Drawing, vice C. W. Ditchy, resigned, for the second semester of the University year
I914-I915, with salary of $Ioo for the semester.
Raymond C. Perkins, Assistant in Architecture, for the
second semester of the University year 1914-1915, with
salary of $50 for the semester.
Russell H. Mills, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, for the second semester of the University year
I914-I915, with salary. of $Ioo for the semester.




MARCH      MEETING, 19I5                   135
Wallace W. Tuttle, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice S. R. Thomas, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year I914-1915, with salary
of $Ioo for the semester.
Edward P. Turner, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice S. R. Thomas, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year I914-I9I5, with salary
of $Ioo for the semester.
Walter T. Emmons, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice S. R. Thomas, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year 1914-I915, with salary
of $200 for the semester.
Rhinehart F. Thalner, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice S. R. Thomas, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year 19I4-I9I5, with salary
of $50 for the semester.
Robert F. Paton, Assistant in Physics, in view of the resignation of Russell V. Allman and with commensurate
increase in duties, salary advanced at the rate of $I5o
for the semester, from February 21, I915.
Joseph G. Wolber, Assistant in Physics, in view of the resignation of Russell V. Allman and with commensurate
increase in duties, salary advanced at the rate of $I50
for the semester, from February 2I, 1915.
Sherwood M. Pinkerton, Jr., Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice H. E. Wheeler, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year I914-1915, with salary
of $Ioo for the semester.
Charles F. Watkins, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, for
the second semester of the University year 1914-1915,
with salary of $50 for the semester.
Rowland D. Smith, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, for
the second semester of the University year 1914-1915,
with salary of $50 for the semester.
Louis J. Gurevich, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, for
the second semester of the University year 1914-1915,
with salary of $50 for the semester.
J. C. Das Gupta, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, for the
second semester of the University year I914-I915, with
salary of $Ioo for the semester.
Walter E. Jominy, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, in consideration of increased duties, salary increased for the
second semester of the University year 1914-1915, from
$50 to $100.




136             MARCH     MEETING, I915
Solomon Shappirio, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, for
the second semester of the University year I914-I915, in
consideration of increased duties, salary increased from
$Ioo to $150.
William C. Calkins, Teaching Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, for the second semester of the University year
I914-1915, in consideration of increased duties, salary
increased from $Ioo to $200.
A. E. Goodwin, Student Assistant in Surveying, for the
second semester of the University year I914-I915, with
salary of $50 for the semester.
R. F. Watt, Student Assistant in Surveying, for the second
semester of the University year I914-I9I5, with salary of
$50 for the semester.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Administrative Committee of the Botanical Garden and Arboretum, Professor J. O. Schlotterbeck was appointed to the committee, vice Professor A. B.
Stevens, and Dr. Henry A. Gleason was appointed as Director of the Botanical Garden and Arboretum, vice Mr. A. J.
Pieters. It was further voted that the Administrative Committee be authorized, in conjunction with the Buildings and
Grounds Department, to proceed to develop the Garden
and provide the greenhouse under the appropriation made
by the Regents, February Io (see page i 6).
The following communication was received from         the
Board of Trustees of the Students' Christian Association:The Students Christian Association, being the owners
of the Helen Handy Newberry Residence Hall and the lands
upon which it is located, (except a few feet of ground under
the eastern end of the building, which is owned by the University of Michigan and used with the permission of the
Board of Regents,) makes the proposition stated below to
the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, with
the cordial assent of the donors of the building, Mr. Truman
H. Newberry, Mr. John S. Newberry, and Mrs. Henry
B. Joy.
The said Association will convey such property by good
and sufficient conveyance to the University of Michigan
upon condition that it shall be operated as a "residence hall"
for women students of the University of Michigan, the net




MARCH MEETING, 1915


I37


income from its operation, after operating expenses and the
expense of upkeep are paid, shall be paid to the Students
Christian Association of the University of Michigan to be
used by it in the maintenance of its work for the women of
the University.
As to its operation it is understood that experience may
show that it is desirable to modify or change any plans
which may be now adopted or which may be in force at any
particular time in the future.
The following suggestions are made, however, as conforming, in the main at least, to plans it is understood the
Regents of the University have under consideration for the
management of other residence halls at the University.
The control, government and operation of the Residence
Hall shall until it shall be changed or modified by agreement
of the Regents of the University and the Students Christian
Association of the University of Michigan, be in a Board of
Governors to consist of five women, one of whom shall be
the Dean of Women of the University and at least two of
the remaining four shall be graduates or former students of
the University of Michigan.
This Board of Governors shall be appointed by the
Regents of the University from persons nominated by the
Board of Trustees of the Students Christian Association, with
their terms so arranged as that the term of office of one
shall expire each year, save that of the Dean of Women,
whose term shall be indeterminate.
Members of this Board shall be subject to removal for
cause at any time, by the Regents of the University, in which
event the vacancy so created shall be filled in the manner
above provided.
This Board of Governors shall, subject to such general
regulations as the Regents of the University may make applicable to students generally, and with a view to the improving of their housing and boarding conditions, manage,
control and operate the Hall as a residence for women students of the University, with the aim of furnishing, at reasonable prices, comfortable rooms, and wholesome board
under social conditions which, while democratic, shall tend
to the best development.
All moneys received by this Board of Governors shall be
paid to the Treasurer of the University and shall be kept in
a special fund and paid out only upon vouchers signed by
the person or persons designated by the Board of Governors.




I38


MARCH MEETING; 1915


Such Board of Governors shall have no authority to
bind the Regents of the University except through vouchers
against this fund and only to the extent of moneys actually
in it, unless specially authorized by the Regents of the University so to do.
It will be expected that a special sinking fund shall be
accumulated for the meeting of extraordinary expenses and
it is suggested that 30% of the net income, and not exceeding $I,ooo per year, be set aside until such fund equals $5,ooo
which shall be its maximum limit and such fund, as expenditures shall be made from it, shall then be maintained at that
maximum by setting aside sufficient from the net income in
the manner above provided and limited.
Respectfully,
V. H. LAN,,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees,,
Students Christian Association.
March 15, I915.
Memorandum:
It is understood that the furnishings for the building
will be transferred to the Regents of the University as a
part of the above transaction and upon similar conditions as
attach to the conveyance of the real property above specified.
V. H. LANE.
A letter was also filed by the President from  Mlr. Truman IH. Newberry, of the Newberry Estate, confirming the
views expressed in the communication from      the Trustees
of the Christian Association, and particularly mentioning
the desire that the title of the building should be officially
"The Newberry Residence."
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the President and Secretary be and they
are hereby authorized and empowered to accept a transfer
from the Students' Christian Association of the property
known as the Newberry Residence in form to be approved by
the counsel of the Board, and that the President, after such
transfer is made, communicate to the donors the gratitude
of the Regents for this worthy gift.




MARCH MEETING, 1915


I39


On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Board of Trustees of the Students'
Christian Association, the following were appointed as the
Board of Governors of the Newberry Residence:For the term of four years, Mrs. Henry B. Joy, of Detroit.
For the term of three years, Mrs. Alexis Angell, of Detroit.
For the term of two years, Miss Claire M. Sanders, of
Detroit.
For the term of one year, Mrs. Henry W. Douglas, of Ann
Arbor.
The Dean of Women, Mrs. Myra B. Jordan.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy,
degrees were conferred as follows:
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
Edward George Curtiss
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN PHARMACY
Rodney Beecher Harvey, Ph.C., Purdue University
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, degrees and teacher's diplomas were
conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF ARTS
William Laurie Owen           Oliver Wendell Holmes
Winnafred Julia Shepard       Dakuin Keetau Lieu
Harold Francis Wood           Landis Duley McDowell
James Blodgett Craig          Vine Burgess Peters
Vernon Culp                   Robert Emmet Purcell
Leon Abbett Ely               Chee-Tseng Tan
Earle James Engle             Sung Tang
Harold Leontine Harrington    William Harold Upjohn
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
Robert Felix Schanz
Bing Yuwen Lin
Margery Juline Lord (as of the class of I914)
Edgar Harold Schmidt




14o


4MARCH MEETING, 9105


TEACHER'S DIPLOMA
Earle James Engle
Vernon Culp
Harold Leontine Harrington
The following communication was received from the
Senate Council:At a meeting held March i5th the Senate Council
declared its opinion that the Commencement dinner should
take place Wednesday, instead of Thursday, of Commencement Week, and that the speaking afterward should take
place in Hill Auditorium. Arrangements for the dinner,
necessitated by such a change, were referred to a Committee
consisting of the President and Mr. W. B. Shaw and such
others as they desire to associate with themselves, subject
to the approval of the Regents.
The Council also declared its approval of the purpose of
the petition of the Board in Control of Student Publications,
relative to the establishment of an emergency reserve fund.
Very respectfully,
S. LAWRENCE BIGELOW,
Secretary.
Earlier action of the Regents voided necessity for action,on the first recommendation by the Senate Council. With
respect to the second recommendation of the Senate Council,
see below.
The following communication was received:We, the undersigned, members of the Board in Control
of Student Publications in the University of Michigan, hereinafter known as The Board in Control, respectfully petition
the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, hereinafter called The Board of Regents, that the sum of $8,ooo
of the money now on deposit to the credit of the said Board
in Control be set aside as an emergency reserve fund to be
held in trust for the purpose of liquidating any debts incurred in carrying on the business of the various student
publications which now are, or in the future may be, under
the control of said Board in Control.
That the said Board in Control be empowered to add to
the said fund from time to time out of any surplus which
may be accumulated from the conduct of the business of




MARCH MEETING, I915


I 4 


said publications such sum or sums as it shall deem unnecessary to keep on hand for working capital, and that any
sum or sums so added to the said fund shall be subject to
the trust hereinbefore stated.
That the Treasurer of the University be directed to invest the said emergency reserve fund and additions thereto
in interest bearing securities of the same character as those
in which the trust funds of the University are invested and
to pay over promptly to the Treasurer of the said Board in.
Control the interest received therefrom.
That in the event the funds in the hands of the said
Board in Control shall at any time be insufficient to pay the
debts or obligations of the said Board in Control incurred in
the conduct of the business of the publications under its.
control, it shall notify the said Board of Regents of the
situation and they shall direct the Treasurer of the University to convert into money as soon as possible the securities
in which said trust fund shall be invested, or such part
thereof as may be necessary to meet the said obligations, or
to use them as collateral for a temporary loan, as the Board
of Regents may deem advisable, and to pay over the money
obtained by either of these methods to the Treasurer of the
Board in Control for the purpose of paying the debts of
said organization.
That if the said fund at any time shall be no longer
needed as an emergency reserve fund to pay the debts of the
said Board in Control, the whole fund, or if the said sum.
shall grow by additions to an amount larger than is necessary to be kept for said purpose, the excess, may be expended in the purchase, direction, or equipment of a building to be used to house a University Press, where the
publications under the control of the said Board in Control shall be printed, or for any other purpose which the
Board of Regents and the Board in Control shall agree
upon and designate, and which shall contribute directly to
the advancement of interests of the said publications or to
the advancement of journalism within the University.
(Signed)                 F. N. Scott, Chairman
John R. Effinger
James W. Glover
Gordon Stoner
H. B. Abbott
Selden S. Dickinson
W. C. Mullendore




A42


MARCH MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Leland, the Board adopted the fol_lowing resolution:Resolved, That the Regents accept the trusteeship of the
fund as requested by the Board in Control of Student Publications and that this fund when received be invested separately from the other funds of the University; but with
the express understanding that the possible investment of
this fund in a University press, as suggested in the final
paragraph of a communication from the Board in Control
of Student Publications shall be left wholly to future consideration.
On motion of Regent Htanchett, the following appointments, all of which are within the budget as adopted December 22, 1914, were made as recommended by Dean Kraus,
of the Summer Session:COLLELGE O LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Physics
HOURS   SALARY
Instructor E. F. Barker, vice R. V. Allman
withdrawn........................... 96   $300.00
COLLEGES OE ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
English
Instructor A. D. De Foe vice Assistant
Professor W. D. Moriarty, withdrawn.. 32    $Ioo.oo
German
Instructor  E.  W ild......................  32  I0O.00
(additional)
Instructor H. O. Schwabe.................. 64  200.00
The appointment of Assistant Professor
W. F. Hauhart to be cancelled.
Drawing
Instructor W. I. Bennett..................  96  300.00
A communication was received from      Dean Vaughan on
the basis of which various actions were taken, as follows:On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. Frederick G. Novy was
appointed as the official delegate of the University of Mich-igan to the dedicatory exercises of Washington University
Medical School, in St. Louis.




M.ARCH MEETINAG, 1915


I43


On motion of Regent Beal, the Board accepted with
thanks the gift from Dr. Henry B. Landon, of Bay City,
of the Class of I86I and of the M\edical Class of I865, of a
collection of bound volumes of standard medical journals.
Dean Vaughan's recommendation with regard to fees
to be charged in the Medical School was covered by an action during the morning session (see page 127).
On motion of Regent Beal, certificates of graduation
from the University Hospital Training School for Nurses
were conferred upon the following:E. Louise Hoskin            Jennie L. Pine
Maude M. Toynton            Nellie S. Parks
Euphie L. Denton
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $15oo was added
to the Clinic Fund of the College of Dental Surgery.
The following resolution of the Executive Committee of
the Alumni Advisory Council was placed before the Regents:Resolved, That the attention of the Board of Regents
be called to the fact that there is a balance of $3,999.49 due
for the building of Alumni Memorial Hall, which the
Alumni Association is without means to pay, and that the
Regents be requested to provide for its payment, in view of
the University uses to which the building is put, and for
which it is available, and the impracticability of providing
for the debt in any other manner without interfering with
the plans of the Association in connectioin with the Michigan Union.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
contribution of $25 toward the expenses of the American
Mathematical Monthly, this action being in accordance with
the request of the Faculty of the department of Mathematics.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School, degrees were conferred as follows:



I44


MARCH MEETING, 1915


MASTER OF ARTS
Mabel Louise Cross, A.B., I9IO
Alice Almena Lewis, A.B., Hillsdale College, 1894
William Allen Robinson, A.B., Albion College, 1903
Harold Leverne Rotzel, A.B., 1910
Ambrose Henry Stang, C.E., Syracuse University, I9Io
Orrett Tatlock, A.B., I909
MASTER Of SCIENCE
Willis Huntley Collar, A.B., 1913
Earl Charles Sherrard, B.S., 1913
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,.
Rev. E. S. Buchanan, B.Sc., M.A., was appointed non-resident lecturer in Classical Philology for the second semester
of the present university year, without salary.
On motion of Regent Clements, Mrs. Clare Mullett, cataloger at $600 per year, was promoted to the salary of $700
per year effective April 30, 1915, zice Eleanor C. Furman,
resigned.
The Board took no action at this meeting on the suggestion of the Librarian looking toward the appointment of a
curator of rare books in the Library.
A communication was received from Assistant Professor Tealdi calling the attention of the Regents to the desirability of providing improved quarters for the department of
Landscape Design.
On motion of Regent Leland, Mr. Verne L. Tickner was
appointed non-resident lecturer in Insurance Accounting for
the second semester of the present University year, with salary of $250 for the semester.
Dean Cooley transmitted reports upon the Short Course
in Highway Engineering, which were accepted and placed
on file.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized an
expenditure of not to exceed $75 for the purpose of providing entertainment in honor of the American Association of
Collegiate Registrars, which is to hold its annual meeting at
the University of Michigan, April 20, 21, and 22.




MARCH MEETING, 1915                  I45
The report of the Board in Control of Athletics for the
University year I913-19I4 was presented, and on motion of
Regent Beal, was received and placed on file.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet April 22, at Io
A. M                       SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




APRIL MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, April 22, 1915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at IO A. M. Present, the President, Regent Gore, Regent Bulkley, Regent
Clements, Regent Hubbard, Regent Hanchett, and Regent
Beal. Absent, Regent Leland, Superintendent Keeler, and
Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat.
Professor T. C. Trueblood appeared and spoke in behalf of a petition from the University Oratorical Association
to come before the Regents later in the day.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of March 25 were approved, as submitted to the Regents
in proof, with corrections on pages I30 and 137.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following recommendation by Dean Cooley and Professor Emeritus J. B. Davis,
the following alumni of the University were appointed a
committee on the memorial for the late Alfred Noble, of the
Class of 1870:COMMITTEE ON ALFRED NOBLE MEMORIAI,
CLASS
1876 Joseph Ripley, Chairman, State Hall, Albany, N. Y.
I857 George If. Benzenberg, 255 Greenbush St., Milwaukee. Wis.
1868 Edward S. Jenison, 93I E. 42d Place, Chicago, Ill.
1869 A. A. Robinson, 900 Tyler St., Topeka, Kansas.
I870 Henry C. Ripley, 46 E. Palmer St., Detroit, Mich.
1871 Henry G. Prout, Nutley, Essex Co., N. J.
1872 Robert S. Woodward, Carnegie Institution of Washington.
I873 John H. Darling, 532 W. Third St., Duluth, Minn.
1874 Charles 1,. Doolittle, 45I WValnut St., Philadelphia,
Pa.
I875 Rolla C. Carpenter, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
I877 James E. Turtle, U. S. Engineer's Office, Montgomery, Ala.




148


APRIL MEETING, 1915


1878 Ossian C. Simonds, IIOI Buena Ave., Chicago, Ill.
I879 Charles C. Brown, 222 E. Ohio St., Indianapolis, Ind.
I879 I. K. Pond, 64 E. Van Buren St., Chicago, Ill.
I880 John Ayers, 800 N. Twelfth St., Fort Smith, Ark.
i88I WVm. W. Follett, Box Io8, El Paso, Texas.
1882 Samuel C. Weiskopf, 68 William St., New York, N. Y.
1883 Job Tuthill, 3704 Flora Ave., Kansas City, Mo.
1884 Robert C. Gemmell, McCormick Bldg., Salt Lake
City, Utah.
I885 Alex E. Kastl, Nolan, New Mex.
i886 Louis C. Hill, III2 Hollingsworth Bldg., Los Angeles, Cal.
I887 Charles Y. Dixon, 337 Federal Bldg., Detroit, Mich.
I888 Percy H. Richardson, 709 Fidelity Bldg., Portland,
Maine.
I889 Gardner S. Williams, Cornwell Bldg., Ann Arbor,
Mich.
J89o Louis C. Sabin, U. S. Engineer's Office, Sault Ste.
Marie, Mich.
The question of the economical and efficient use of University buildings was discussed at some length. On motion
of Regent Bulkley, the Board adopted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee of the Board
and Regent Hubbard, after receiving the information being
secured by the Secretary, be requested to formulate a plan
for taking up the matter of the efficiency of the departments, particularly with reference to the economical use of
space in buildings, and report if possible at the next meeting of this Board.
Regent Clements presented sketches made in the office
of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds for the
proposed enlargement of the Waterman Gymnasium. On
motion of Regent Clements, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee were authorized to get bids on these plans to be
submitted to the Regents at the next meeting.
A  communication was received from       Professor S. J.
Zowski in behalf of the officers of the Polish National Alliance stating that the Alliance in making its communication
to the Regents at the March meeting (see page I32) had not
expected that the University would assume any obligations




APRIL MEETING, I915


I49


toward the financial support of a Professorship in Polish.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Regents expressed their
sympathy with the proposal of the Polish National Alliance
and their willingness to take up further with the Alliance
the question of the establishment in the University of a Professorship in the Polish Language and Literature.
The Executive Committee reported the opinions of the
Deans of the various Schools and Colleges of the University
with respect to the advisability of increasing fees, particularly of non-residents. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the
following resolutions were adopted:Resolved, That beginning with the University year 1915 -I916, the annual fees charged students in the College of Dental Surgery shall be, for residents of Michigan, $107, (instead of as now $77, plus "incidental fee," $Io, and laboratory fees), for non-residents of Michigan, $127 (instead of,
as now, $107, plus "incidental fee,$io, and laboratory fees),
plus laboratory fees in each case. The so-called "incidental
fee" of $Io per year previously charged is hereby abolished.
Resolved, That beginning with the University year I916 -1917, the annual fees and laboratory fees combined charged
students in the Medical Schools shall be, for residents of
Michigan $roo, for non-residents of Michigan, $I20, (instead
of present resident fee of $57, and non-resident fee of $67,
plus laboratory fees in each case).
On motion of Regent Beal, the following resolution was
adopted:Resolved, That beginning with the University year I916 -I917, the annual fees charged students in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts shall be, for residents of
Michigan, $42 (as now), for non-residents of Michigan, $62
(instead of $52, as now), plus laboratory fees in each case.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That beginning with the University year I916 -1917, the annual fees charged students in the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture, shall be, for residents of
Michigan, $57 (as now), for non-residents of Michigan, $87
(instead of $67, as now), plus laboratory fees in each case.




150            APRIL MEETING, 1915
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That beginning with the University year I916 -I917, the annual fees charged students in the College of
Pharmacy, shall be, for residents of Michigan, $57 (as now),
for non-residents of Michigan, $77 (instead of $67, as now),
plus laboratory fees in each case.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board directed that
the appraisal of properties securing loans tendered to the
University by Baird & Baird, of Kansas City, should be
made by representatives of the Commerce Trust Co., of
Kansas City, in accordance with the direction given at the
March meeting (see page 128).
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $50 was
added to the appropriation made March 25 for the purchase
of real estate for coal storage and the purchase of the property in question was authorized at a cost of $1,250 (see
page 128).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, $Ioo was added to the
appropriation made March 25 (see page I29) for hospital
land purchases, covering agent's commission.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
accident insurance be carried on passenger elevators in the
hospitals of the University.
The President reported that a loan to Mr. Albert Hyma
had been authorized by himself and the Secretary under
authority given at the March meeting (see page I30).
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board appointed Regent Beal as a member of the Budget Committee in place of
Regent Leland during the latter's absence.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to the
President and Secretary, with power, the question of arranging, either by purchase or rental, for the necessary equipment to serve the Commencement luncheon to alumni.
The following communication.from Dean Henry M.
Bates, as counsel for the Regents, was received in reply to,
the Regents' request for his opinion with respect to the
powers of the Regents in the administration of the Phillips
Scholarships Fund (see page I32).




APRIL MEETING, 1915


15I


To the Honorable Board of Regents:Under date of March 29 Secretary Smith has asked that
I give an opinion as to the legality of certain changes in the
administration of the Phillips Scholarships proposed by a
joint committee of the Greek and Latin Departments of the
University. These recommendations are made in a communication addressed to the President under date of March
25th, I915, and signed by Professors Henry A. Sanders and
Campbell Bonner.
The proposed changes in the method of administering
the trust under the Phillips will are made desirable, if not
indeed necessary, by reason of changes in the conditions relating to admission to the University which have come about
since the Phillips will became effective. I have been unable to learn when the will was executed or when Mr. Phillips died, but the general understanding seems to be that the
will became effective at least twenty years ago, and at a time
when many students were offering Latin and Greek for admission to the University, and when consequently examinations were given in these subjects to many entering students.
As pointed out in the communication of Professors Sanders
and Bonner, there has been almost a complete change in this
respect. So few students now present Greek that it would
be possible to give examinations to only a very few
entering students. As one of the purposes of the creation
of the trust fund was to encourage excellence in Greek during the high school period, it is manifest that the plan can
no longer be carried out precisely as it was made by the
testator.
The pertinent provisions of the Phillips will are set
forth on pages I04 and Io5 of the proceedings of the Regents for 1915. The changes proposed in the Sanders-Bonner communication will affect only the first two clauses of
the trust provision. As to the first clause, the proposed
change in substance is that examinations at entrance shall
be required only in Latin, but that the student may at his
option also take examination in Greek. This unquestionably involves a slight departure from the plan made by Mr.
Phillips. It is possible that an over-technical court might
hold the change a violation of the trust. But I am strongly
of the opinion that this would not be the correct legal view
to take of the situation. 'The fundamental purpose of the trust
in question is to encourage the study of the so-called classical'
languages. Since the will became effective conditions have




I52


APRIL MEETING, I915


so changed that the precise method pointed out for doing
this cannot be followed. To undertake to carry out the provision literally would actually tend to defeat the object of
the testator. The slight change proposed by the committee,
namely, making examinations in Greek optional, would, on
the other hand, enlarge the number of persons eligible to
the scholarship, and would thus increase the number of those
who, by reason of the scholarships, would be aided and stimulated to continue classical subjects. Undoubtedly some of
those who receive the scholarships upon examination in
Latin only would begin the study of Greek in the University.
I am of the opinion, therefore, that the proposed changes
would not constitute a violation of the spirit and fundamental intent of the trust. The gift is within the scope of
what are known as charitable gifts in this state, and hence
the Cy pres doctrine is applicable, if indeed the proposed
change is not within the scope of the trustees' discretion as
defined in the cases on this subject in this country. I may
cite as pertinent cases
Cook v. Univ. Convention, 138 Mich. 157
Mills v. Newberry, 112 Ill. 123
Barnard v. Adams, 58 Fed. R. 313
Beekman v. Bonsor, 23 N. Y. 298
In re Brown L. R. I8 Chancery Division 6I
Story's Equity Jurisprudence, section 291
Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, section 1026-28
The same reasons apply to the less important and very
minor deviation proposed with reference to the second
clause. As the testator provides that one-fourth of the
student's time shall be devoted to the study of Greek and
Latin, and the committee provides that he shall take at least
four hours in Latin during the tenure of the scholarship, it
may fairly be said that substantial compliance with the requirement of the will is provided for in recommendation of
*the Sanders-Bonner communication.
HENRY M. BATES,
Counsel for the Regents
Dated April 15, 1915.
Following the presentation of Dean Bates's opinion, the
recommendations of Professor Bonner and Professor Sanders, with respect to the administration of this fund, were
concurred in.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




APRIL MlEIEETINAG, I9r5


I53


AFTERNOON SESSION
Upon reassembling there were present, the President,
Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent
Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Clements. Absent,
Regent Leland, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
traveling expense account of Regent Sawyer from July 7,
1914 to February 24, I915, inclusive, for the sum of $91.95.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Edward S. Allen, Ph.D.,
was appointed as Instructor in Mathematics in the Colleges
of Engineering and Architecture for the University year
I915-I916, at the salary of $I,200, zice Frank H. Stevens,
transferred to the Department of Engineering Mechanics.
Regent Beal presented the following resolution:Resolved, That the Committee on Buildings and Grounds
be authorized to arrange with Frederick Law Olmsted and
authorized committees of Ann Arbor for the University's
share in a plan of development for the Campus and the City,
and that $I,500 be appropriated toward the expenses of such
a plan.
Regent Bulkley moved to amend this motion by adding
Regent Beal to the Buildings and Grounds Committee.
The amendment was accepted and the resolution was then
adopted on a call vote, Regent Beal not voting.
On motion of Regent Beal, a refund of $3, the outdoor
physical education fee for the second semester, was authorized to Mr. Abner M. Clark, as recommended by the Board
in Control of Athletics.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $75 was added
to the current expense account of the Department of Internal Medicine.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $I,500 was
added to the current expense account of the Department of
Hygiene and Bacteriology.
A request was received from Dean Vaughan for an
allowance of $Ioo toward the traveling expenses of Professor A. S. Warthin in order that Professor Warthin might
accept the invitation of the American Medical Association




I54


APRIL MEETING, 19r5


to present a course of lectures before the Association at its
session in San Francisco in the week beginning June 2I. On
motion of Regent Sawyer, an allowance of $Ioo for this
purpose was granted.
A communication was received from Dr. Richard H.
Smith, as Chairman of the Library Committee of the Michigan State Medical society, requesting an appropriation for
enlarging the usefulness of the University medical library
to the physicians of the State. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this communication was referred to the Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That beginning with the University year I916 -1917, the annual fees charged students in the Graduate
School shall be, for residents of Michigan, $42 (as now),
for non-residents of Michigan, $62 (instead of $52, as now),
plus laboratory fees in each case.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
sketches of plans for enlarging the Economics Building be
turned over to the Executive Committee to be considered in
connection with its study of efficiency in the use of buildings.
It was informally agreed that all applications for positions in the residence halls for women, though addressed to
the Regents, should be turned over to the respective Boards
of Governors of those halls.
The Secretary presented a report of conditions under
which the University might provide uniform academic dress
for the Faculty at the Commencement and Convocation ceremonies. On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the rental of academic dress for this purpose for one
year, with the privilege of applying the rental charge upon
the purchase price.
On motion of Regent Beal, a committee consisting of
Regent Clements, Dean Cooley, Superintendent Marks, and
the Secretary was authorized to make a contract for the
soft coal supply of the University for the year I915-I916.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized the
initialing of the University vouchers by Regent Hanchett
for the months of February, March, and April.




APRIL MEETING, 19r5


I55


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $300 was added
to the University Extension budget for the present year to
enable the Extension Service to meet requests for co-operation in good-health-week programs, from Lapeer, Three
Rivers, Port Huron, and the Upper Peninsula.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
the regular refund should be made to Miss Jessie F. Barnum
who withdrew on December 15, I914.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the various comrunications in the hands of the President, requesting the establishment of courses in home economics in the University were
laid upon the table. This action was taken on the following
vote: Aye, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements,
Regent Bulkley, and Regent Hanchett. Nay, Regent Hubbard.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board declined to
grant the request of Mr. Albert Palmer to be permitted to
take the examinations in June, 1915, without the payment of
the regular semester fee.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized an
appropriation of not to exceed $50 toward the traveling expenses of Professor E. D. Jones, should he accept the invitation of the National Association of Commercial Organization Secretaries to address that body in St. Louis in September.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board declined to
advertise in "Who's Who in America."
On motion of Regent Sawyer, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon Hertha Charlotte Hartwig.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
The following communication was received from the
Secretary:To the Honorable Board of Regentts:The University has published as a Bulletin two editions of
"Michigan Trees." The first edition of 2,200 copies cost
$629.89, exclusive of postage. This edition was largely mailed
gratis to schools and libraries in Michigan. A second edition
of 2,000 copies was printed from the same type to be sold at




I56


APRIL MEETING, 1915


3oc. cloth bound and I5c. paper bound.    This edition
cost, owing to the saving in composition, but $390.7I, and the
sales have somewhat more than covered the cost.
The second edition is now exhausted and there is a
constant and strong demand for more. The Auditing Board
therefore recommends to the Regents the publication of a
third edition at a cost as follows:
For composition, press work, and binding, except
cloth  bound................................. $373.55
For binding  1,200  cloth  hound.....................  44.00
Boxes  for  mailing...............................  25.00
Postage  on  bound  copies..........................  96.o0
Postage on unbound copies.......................  8.00
Contingent.......................................  13.45
Total........................................  $660.oo
It is recommended that these copies be sold at approximately cost, namely, 4oc for the cloth bound and 25c for
the paper bound books.
On motion of Regent Beal, the publication of a third
edition of Michigan Trees was authorized and $660 was
appropriated for the purpose.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appointments by the Secretary, upon proper recommendation, to
positions provided for in the budget, were approved and
confirmed:Helen L. B. Gage, Technical Assistant in Anatomy for the
calendar months of March, April, May, and June, with
salary of $30 per month.
Gilbert D. Douglas, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering,
for the balance of the second semester after March
Io, ig95, with salary of $50.
Ira H. Reindel, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering, for
the balance of the second semester after March Io, I915,
with salary of $25.
Lyle B. Kingery, Assistant in Pharmacology, for the second
semester of the University year I914-1915, with salary
of $300 for the semester.
Carl W. Eberbach, Assistant in Pharmacology, for the second semester of the University year I914-I915, with salary of $300 for the semester.




APRIL MEETING, 1915


I57


Otto Koch, Dispensing Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory, vice W. Clark, resigned, from March 8, I915, with
salary at the rate of $500 per year, twelve months' basis.
Ralph Ranson, Dispensing Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory, for a temporary term from March 9, with salary
at the rate of $500 per year.
Quinter 0. Gilbert, Assistant in Pasteur Institute, April I,
I915, salary increased to the rate of $750 per year in
view of performing the duties formerly borne by Judd
B. Kelly, resigned.
Claude Pontius, Assistant in Pasteur Institute, vice Dr.
Quinter 0. Gilbert, promoted, for the balance of the second semester after April I, I915, with salary of $Ioo.
Leonard Siev, Librarian of the Dental College Library, for
the final four-fifths of the second semester of the University year I914-I915, vice A. Bosscher, resigned, with
salary of $60.
Albert A. Bennett, Teaching Assistant in Political Economy, for the second semester of the University year
I914-I915, with a salary of $Too.
Communications were received from Director Campbell,
of the Chemical Laboratory, from Professor Jesse S. Reeves,
and from Professor A. G. Canfield with regard to additional
room for the work respectively in chemistry, political science,
and romance languages. No action was taken on these requests at this time.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $264.30 was
added to the janitor supplies account.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of the Ann Arbor Art Association for an appropriation
of $50 toward the expenses of an art exhibit to be held in
the Memorial Building during the May Festival.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board appropriated $Ioo
as a contribution toward the support of the American School
for Oriental Research in Jerusalem.
A request was received from Dean Cooley for an addition
of $I40 to the current expense account of the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture. No action was taken on this
request.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the sum of $I,Ioo was
set aside in accordance with the request of Dean Cooley to




I58


APRIL MEETING, 1915


meet the expenses of publishing this year's Announcement
of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture. It has
been the practice for a number of years to pay out of each
year's budget the expense of the Announcement of the previous year. Hereafter, it is expected, each year will pay the
cost of its own Announcement.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, $I75 was added to the
original appropriation for the Short Course in Highway
Engineering. This sum of $I75, in addition to the unexpended balance in the account, will, it is estimated, be sufficient to publish in paper binding two thousand copies of all
the papers presented during the Short Course last winter.
The Board directed the publication of these papers, to be
distributed gratis under proper conditions.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board allowed the
traveling expenses, amounting to $38.64, of Mr. John J. Cox
and Mr. Harry C. Coons while in attendance at the good
roads meeting at Grand Rapids, March 9, Io, I I, and 12.
Dean Cooley communicated to the Regents the following
gifts:Civil Engineering:Two large volumes printed on cloth giving full details
of reinforced concrete mill building, reinforced concrete
office building, structural steel building and standard mill
building. These are of great value in connection with the
design work in structural engineering.
Presented by George V. Rhines, of Mills, Rhines, Bellman & Nordhoff, Architects, Toledo, Ohio.
Oak panel with five framed photographs mounted thereon, and a complete series of sections of steel sheet piling of
all kinds, making a very handsome wall exhibit.
Presented by The Lackawanna Steel Co., Lackawanna,
New York.
Series of photographs and old lithographs of locomotives; containing five of the earliest advertising lithographs
of locomotive works in the United States, showing the type
of locomotive built in the forties and the 'fifties.
Presented by Mr. Herbert Fisher, Taunlton, Massachusetts.




APRIL MEETING, 1915


I59


Mechanical Engineering:Complete 1915 Reo V chassis, for demonstration and lecture purposes in connection with our automobile engineering
courses.
Presented by the Reo Motor Car Company, Lansing,
Michigan.
Two handsome framed pictures-one of the Ludlow
Avenue Viaduct, Cincinnati; the other the Piqua Hosiery
Building, Piqua, Ohio.
Universal Portland Cement Company, Chicago, Ill.
Large collection of plans of bridges, viaducts, and steel
structural work for buildings, both general plans and details.
Mr. Irving M. Wolverton, Io8 E. Gambier Street, Mt.
Vernon, Ohio.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Secretary was directed to communicate to the various donors the thanks of the
Regents for their co-operation with the work of the University.
A communication was presented from Dean Cooley relative to the publication of the register of alumni in the Announcement of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture. Following discussion, on motion of Regent Hubbard,
the Board adopted this resolution:Resolved, That after I915 the Announcement of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture shall contain the history of only those alumni that have graduated since the last
publication of the Announcement, together with such
changes among other alumni of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture as have occurred since the last Announcement.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted that the
sums of $I,ooo, $I50 and $320, respectively, should be available in advance of the budget of I915-I916 for the sewer
system, the kitchen, and the steel buildings at the Bogardus
Engineering Camp. This anticipation of the expected budget is necessary in order that the camp may be ready for
students on the opening date.
A communication was received from Dean Hinsdale of
the Homoeopathic Medical School requesting that special




i6o


APRIL MEETING, 1915


quarters might be provided in the Homceopathic Hospital,
for Washtenaw County public patients, and that such patients might be received in these quarters at the reduced rate
of $8 per week. On motion of Regent Hanchett, this request was laid upon the table.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board referred to a
Committee composed of Regent Beal and the Secretary
questions that have arisen with regard to Lot 25 in Brown
& Kearney's sub-division of Block I, North of Huron Street,
range 14 E, with power to purchase such lot at $4,40o or
less, if in the judgment of the Committee such purchase
should be desirable.
A request was received from Professor Reighard and
Professor Shepard for permission to purchase, out of the
fire damage fund of the Department of Zoology and the
equipment fund of the Department of Psychology, a moving
picture camera.  On motion of Regent Beal, this request
was laid upon the table.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board appropriated
as part of the budget of I915-I916 the sum of $650 to be
expended for the necessary expenses of conducting debating
and oratorical contests, providing judges' and presiding
officers' traveling expenses, printing, etc., with the provision
that all contests in oratory and debating should be open to
the students of the University free of cost.
A communication was received from the Dean of the
Law School suggesting certain extensions of the courses in
that School. On motion of Regent Bulkley, this communication was laid upon the table for the present.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Regents tendered
to Professor Isaac N. Demmon the office of curator of rare
books with the understanding that his responsibility, should
he accept, should be directly to the Library Committee of the
Board of Regents.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote, except
where otherwise stated.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adjourned to
Friday, May 21, at Io A. M.
SHIRLFY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OE MICHIGAN, |
ANN ARBOR, May 21, 1915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at IO o'clock A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Leland
and Regent Gore.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes were approved after corrections on pages I49, 150, 154, 159, and I60.
The President asked for a report from   the Committee
appointed at an earlier mceting (see page I20) to consider
military 'training in the University. Regent Hubbard made
an informal report for this Committee, following which, in
view of the fact that the question of military training was to
be discussed by the University Senate at an early meeting, it
was thought wise by the Regents to leave the matter in abeyance for the time being.
The President filed the following letter from a representative of the State Board of Examiners in Optometry:DR. H. B. HUTCHINS,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
DEIAR SIR:
A careful survey and campaign has been made throughout the State to get definite data on the probable number
of students who would 'take up Optometry if such a course
were to be established.
I regret that we cannot promise sufficient number to
justify the opening of the course this coming fall even -if
the Regents did take favorable action. Personally I believe
the matter had better be delayed for at least another year
when the outlook for a class in Optometry might be more
favorable.
Thanking you for your suggestions and considerations,
I remain
Yours truly,,
EMIT H. ARNOLD
Ann Arbor, May 20, I915




I62


MAY MEETING, 1915


On mot.on of Regent Bulkley, the communication from
Dean Bates presented at the April meeting (see page I6o)
was considered by the Board and the suggestions made by
the Law Faculty in this communication were approved and
adopted. The communication, not printed in the April minutes, is as follows:7'o the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for April 22, 1915.
The enormously expanding volume of law during the
last quarter century, the almost totally new fields, especially in public law, and the more intensive and thorough methods of legal instruction required under modern conditions
have made a problem in the framing of law curricula which
law faculties have found it difficult to solve. This may best
be indicated briefly by the statement that the Law School
of this University is now  offering strictly professional
work, which taken at the normal rate would require a student to remain in the Law School about five years, and including such collateral subjects as Roman Law, Jurisprudence and History of Law would keep a student here quite
six years. It is not important that every student take all
of these subjects, but it is important that all students take
more of these subjects than can be obtained in a three years'
curriculum. The elective system has only partially met the
difficulty.
This problem ihas been discussed at different times during several years by this faculty, and some months ago a
committee of five was appointed for the purpose of considering and reporting with reference to the matter.  The
report of that committee was presented to the faculty at a
meeting held April 9, 1915, and after careful discussion
was adopted. In substance the faculty action based upon
this report is as follows:'First. The faculty recommends that in view of the
rapid raising of entrance requirements and of standards of
work during the last few years we should not make a
four years' course obligatory at once.
Second. The faculty does recommend that from the
courses already offered we construct a graded and logically arranged four-year course, and that said course should
include, besides the work already prescribed in the threeyear course, the following required subjects: Roman Law




MAY MEETING, 1915


I63


and Comparative Law, three hours; Jurisprudence, three
hours; History of English Law, three or four hours.
Tihird. The faculty recommends that students on the
four years' course be required to earn at least ninety-six
(96) hours of credit in order to obtain a degree.
Fourth. That students on the four yea-rs' course who
maintain an exceptionally high standard of work in threefourths of their subjects, computed on the hour basis, shall
be granted the degree of Juris Doctor (J..D.), and that those
students who complete this course -with satisfactory
scholarship, but not of the exceptionally high standard required of those who receive the degree of J.D. shall be
given the degree of Master of Laws (LL.M.).
It will be noted that the recommendation is that those
students taking two years in college and four years in the
Law School be put on the same basis, so far as degrees are
concerned, as those who take three. years in college and
three years in the Law School. Of course those who take
but two years in college 'will not under this arrangement
receive any college degree.
I may add that I have given a great deal of thought
to this subject and am firmly convinced that the proposed
move is in the right direction and that it will mark the next
big step in advance taken in legal education. I have. reason
to know that at least three other schools are seriously considering making such a course as is above outlined.
The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching has been making a comprehensive study of legal
education and admission to the bar during the last two
years. As a part of this study, Professor Redlich, of Vienna, Austria, was invited to this country to consider the
subject of instruction in law schools. Professor Redlich's
report was made public April 5, and I note that it includes
among its three recommendations the adoption of a fouryear course for all law students.
The organization of this optional four-year course will
not involve any additional expense. We are now offering
all of the work we shall need for such a course, and the
slight additional amount of teaching time and the additional
class room space can be provided for from our present
equipment.
I respectfully request, therefore, on behalf of the
faculty of law that the proposed optional four-year course
in law be approved and authorized, and that the granting of




I64               MIA Y MIEE$TING, 19f5
the degrees LL.M. and J.D. to those who complete this
course also be authorized by your Board.
The reasons for offering such course I have set out at
greater length than wvould be proper for an official communication of this kind in the April number of The Alumnus, copies of which will be mailed to the members of your
Board before its next meeting.
HENRY M. BATES,
Dean of the Law School,April I4, 1915
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that the
question of enlarging the Waterman Gymnasium should be
deferred for the present.
Regent Sawyer reported that the cost of appraising properties securing mortgages tendered to the University by
Baird and Baird, of Kansas City, would be, should the appraisals be made by representatives of the Commerce Trust
Company, of Kansas City, approximately $I. ()On motion.
the Board directed that the appraisal should be made. The
Board also further directed that investments in the mortgages originally tendered by Baird and Baird should be made
under a definite understanding with Baird and Baird that
they would replace any loans which the investigation should
cause the Regents to regard as unsatisfactory.
The Secretary filed the following report:At the meetings of the Regents held March 25 and
April 22 the Board authorized the purchase of property for
coal storage adjacent to the Heating. Power and Lighting
Plant at the cost of $1250 (see pages I28 and I50). I have
to report that under this authority the following property
has been acquired by warranty deed, at the sum named:The east fifty-four feet of Lot Number Ten, block
number Four, in R. S. Smith's Third Addition to the City
of Ann Arbor. according to the recorded plat thereof. And
also granting and reserving a right of way over a strip of
land ten feet in width next adjoining said above described
land on the west to be used as a private driveway by the
parties to this instrument, their heirs, successors and assigns
forever,, to pass and repass on foot or with vehicles but not
to obstruct the same: and the said parties of the second
part for themselves, their successors and assigns hereby
covenant a(nd agree with said first parts his heirs and




MAfY M EEETING, 1915


I65


assigns that they will at their own cost and expense maintain and keep in ordinary good repair and passable condition the above described driveway.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
passenger elevator insurance on the six elevators in the two
hospitals of the University should be placed with the Union
Casualty Insurance Company, of Philadelphia, for one year,
and set aside the sum of $I68 to cover the premium.
The following report was filed and, on motion of Regent
Bulklev, was approved and adopted, including allowance of
the required appropriation:At the meeting of April 22 the Secretary recommended
an appropriation of not to exceed $16I1.54 for the purchase
and care of equipment for serving the Commencement
luncheon. There was objection to the expenditure of so
large a sum for this purpose and the matter was referred
to the President and Secretary with authority to make such
expenditure as was needed, but by rental or such other
means as might be found possible to reduce the expenditure.
Your Committee begs to report that it has been found
feasible to rent china and glassware of Mr. Hoag in Ann
Arbor, who will guarantee to have this material in hand.
The rental price will be Io% of the value, plus breakage or
loss.
The purchase of the kitchen equipment seems necessary and also the purchase of forks and spoons, and of tablecloths and napkins. By buying a cheaper grade of "silver"
and of "linen," the original estimates of cost have been
considerably reduced, and it is felt that the quality will be
good enough considering the infrequent use and therefore
the slight wear and tear, and considering the possibility of
loss. It is believed that an appropriation of $I,ooo will meet
the requirements under these arrangements. Acting under
the authority of the Regents, your Committee beg to report
that they have authorized this expense and we respectfully
request your approval.
H. B. HUTcHINS, President
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary
The Secretary filed the following report which, on motion
of Regent Bulkley, was approved and adopted, including
allowance of the required appropriation:



I66


MAY MEETING, 1915


I beg to report that under authority given at the meeting of April 22 (see page 154) I have made a contract with
Henry & Co., of Ann Ar'bor, under which Henry & Co.
will provide academic dress for authorized members of the
Faculty, on the occasions of Commencement Week and of
Convocation.  The cost per person so provided for the
two occasions is $2 per annum.   An allowance in the
budget of $300 will therefore be necessary on the assumed
'basis of 50o persons.
This contract protects the University under this arrangement for five years but may be terminated by the
University at its own option during any year after the
first year.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That Professor I. N. Demmon be and hereby is appointed curator of rare books and rare manuscripts
and of the rare book section of the General Library, with
responsibility directly to the Library Committee of the
'Board of Regents: arrangements for compensation and
administration to be determined later by the Library Committee of the Board.
Regent Bulkely brought up the question of the payment
of the usual laboratory fees by persons holding the Michigan
Gas Association Fellowships.    Action on this matter was
deferred until a later meeting.
On motion of Regent Bulkely, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That Dr. James B. Angell be invited to attend the next meeting of the Board of Regents and that
President Hutchins be asked to present the invitation.
Regent Beal suggested that it would be desirable to include among the committees listed in the annual Catalogue of
the University the University Committees of the State Senate and of the House of Representatives. On motion of Regent Clements, this question was referred to the Executive
Committee of the Board with power.




MAY MEETING, 1915


i67


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the President and Secretary were authorized to purchase the following land adjacent
to the Bogardus Engineering Camp in Cheboygan County
and an appropriation of $320 was made for this purpose:The west half of the N. W. quarter, Section 4, Town 36
North, range 3 West, Burt Township, Cheboygan County.
A communication was received from Judge C. B. Grant
recommending certain changes in the administration and certain additions to the list of newspapers and magazines on the
subscription list of the reading room in the Alumni Memorial
Hall. On motion of Regent Hanchett, this communication
was referred to the Budget Committee with recommendation
for favorable action if possible.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $325 was
transferred from the janitors pay roll to the janitors supplies
account, and authority was given to transfer from the general
pay roll of the Buildings and Grounds Department to the
Heating, Power and Lighting Plant account amounts totaling
$736.77, covering wages paid to Mr. L. L. Langworthy.
On motion of Regent Clements, $500 was added to the
Buildings and Grounds pay roll for the present year to cover
the extra expense due to making plans for the Waterman
Gymnasium enlargement.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board referred to the
Budget Committee, with favorable recommendation, the
question of the promotion of Dr. A. G. Ruthven from the
rank of Assistant Professor of Zoology and Director of the
Zoological Museum to that of Professor of Zoology and Director of the Zoological Museum at the salary of $2,500 per
year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to the
Budget Committee, with favorable recommendation, the
question of the promotion of Assistant Professor John G.
Winter to an Associate Professorship at the salary of $2,100.
Regent Bulkley presented the report of the Director of
the Museum of Zoology for the year ending June 30, I915.
On motion the report was received and filed with the understanding that it would be printed as a separate bulletin.




I68


MA Y M IEE TING, 19 5


The Secretary read the following resignation of Assistant Professor S. C. Lind, which, on motion of Regent Pleal,
was accepted:To t1he Honorable Board of Regents
of the University of llichiganl:GENTLEMEN:I have the honor to hand to you through the President
of the University my resignation as Assistant Professor of
General and Physical Chemistry.
Please allow me to take this opportunity of expressing
my regrets at having to sever relations with the University,
and of thanking you for your kind consideration of the past,
in particular for the leave of absence which you have
graciously extended me for the past two years to engage in
my present undertakings.
1 beg to remain
Very faithfully yours,
Denver, Colo., May 5, I915          S. C. LIND 
A letter was presented by the Secretary from Mr. F. H.
Sweet with respect to the equipment of the Waterman Gymnasium should the proposed addition to the Gymnasium be
built.
Tho following report was presented and was, on motion of Regent Sawyer, accepted and approved including the
addition of the necessary sum to the budget:Your committee appointed at the April meeting with
power to purchase Dr. Atchison's property (see page I60)
beg to report that they have purchased this property, described as follows, for the authorized sum of $4400, taking
warranty deed for the same:Lot 25 in Brown & Kearney's sub-division of Block I,
North of Huron Street, range 14 E, Ann Arbor.
Respectfully submitted,
JUNIUS E. BEAL
SHIREY W. SMITH
A, proposition from Mr. Joseph Grindley, of Detroit, to
purchase University property between Thirty-third Street,
Junction Avenue, McGraw Avenue, and Devereaux Street,
in Detroit, was referred to Regent Bulkely and Treasurer
Campbell for report.




MA Y MEETING, 1915


I69


Letters were received from Messrs. Chittenden and Kotting, Louis Kamper, and Oscar C. Gottesleben relative to
plans and specifications for the proposed new Library Building. On motion of Regent Bulkley, these communications
and other similar communications should such be received,
were referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for
attention.
The Secretary reported a communication from the Ann
Arbor Art Association thanking the Regents for assistance
voted by the Board (see page I57).
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Regent Bulkley was appointed to initial the University vouchers for the months of
Mav. Juie, and Julv.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the traveling expenses of
Regent Bulklev from February 18, 1913, to February I9,
19(1, totaling $I;8.o4, were allowed.
A communication from Mr. L. C. Anderson, Exposition
Commissioner of the Union Pacific System, relative to a
University of Michigan Day at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, was referred, with power, to the President.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:30 P. M. Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent
Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Leland, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Gore.
A communication from Professor Kelsey called attention
to a number of fossils presented to the University by Dr.
Ignazio Cerio, of Capri, Italy. On motion of Regent Beal,
a vote of thanks for this gift was extended to Dr. Cerio.
A letter to the President suggesting the desirability of
establishing in the University a special course, or grouping
of courses, for Scoutmasters, of the Boy Scout movement,
was referred to the Executive Committee for consideration
and report.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized the
sending of a special Commencement invitation or bulletin to




170


14 L-Y AiIEETING,.915


all alumni and former students of the University, and added'
$200 to the Commencement expense account to cover the
additional expenditure.
Professor Demmon appeared before the Regents in response to their request.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That beginning October I, I916, the salary
of Professor Louis A. Strauss and the salary of Professor
John S. P. Tatlock shall be at the rate of $3,000 per annum,
each, and that leave of absence at his present salary, on
condition that he shall provide a satisfactory substitute at
his own expense, shall be given to Professor Tatlock for the
year 1915-1916.
A communication was received from Professor E. D.
Campbell calling attention to a criticism overheard by him of
11lowinc' Sturay work on buildings being erected for the
University. On motion of Regent Sawyer it was voted that
this communication should be received and should have the
careful consideration of the Board.
The President presented recommendations by the Senate
Council for honorary degrees to be conferred at the coming
Coimmencement, June 24, with the usual provisions that a
degree should not be conferred upon any candidate who
could not be present in person to receive it and that the
names of candidates should not be announced previous to
Commencement. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the degrees
were conferred in accordance with the recommendation of
the Senate Council. The names of the recipients will appear
later in the Proceedings of the Regents.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that the
matter of construction of greenhouses on Packard Street
should be passed for the present.
On motion of Regent Clements, the request of Dean
Vaughan for leave of absence during Commencement Week
was granted in order that he might attend the meeting of
the American Medical Association of which he is President.
The resignation of Assistant Professor James P. Bird
was tendered as follows, and on motion of Regent Hubbard
was accepted:



MAY MEETING, 1915


I7I


PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
MY DEAR SIR:In order to accept a position as Professor of Romance
Languages in Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota, I
herewith tender my resignation as Assistant Professor of
French and Spanish and as Secretary of the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture, the same to take effect
September I, I915.
Yours very sincerely,
JANES P. BIRD
Ann Arbor, May 14, 1915
On motion of Regent Beal, a vote of thanks was extended to the estate of the late Professor Richard Hudson for
its gift to the University of the portrait of Professor I. N.
Demmon by Mr. S. Bennett Linder.
On motion of Regent Clements, the suggested purchase
from the White estate of twenty-four acres of woodland,
just west of the City of Ann Arbor, was referred to Regent
Beal and Regent Hubbard for investigation and report,
Regent Beal and Regent Hubbard not voting.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board referred to the
President and Dean Jordan, with power, the question of
suggesting to the Newberry estate the desirability of holding exercises dedicating the Newberry Residence.
A communication was received from Mr. Lewis Fisher,
of Newark, N. J., relative to possible representation of the
University by Mr. Fisher in the matter of soliciting funds
for IJniversity aid.  The President was authorized, on
motion of Regent Hubbard, to communicate further with
Mr. Fisher and to learn additional particulars concerning
the matter.
On motion of Regent Clements, leave of absence was
granted to Professor Thomas C. Trueblood after June o1
for the rest of the University year in order that he may
attend the annual nmeting of teachers of public speaking to
be held in San Francisco and may lecture en route, in the
Universities of Montana and Utah, and in other colleges.
Superintendent Keeler was excused.
A communication from the Department of History urging the purchase of files of certain Charleston, S. C., news



I72


gI MAY AJEETLTNG, 915


papers, was, on motion of Regent Bulkley, referred to the
B-1udtet Committee.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence was granted
to Assistant Professor F. S. Breed for Commencement
W\eek, in order that he might attend the One Hundredth
Anniversary celebration of the founding of Allegheny College, his Alma Mater.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Director Campbell, Mr. Clifford Cyrille Meloche,
Ph.D., was appointed Instructor in Analytical Chemistry
for the year 1915-1916, with salary of $I,ioo, vice Dr.
Joseph Laird transferred to Chemical Engineering.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Board in Control of Athletics, the Regents authorized the return of the out door physical education portion of the annual fees paid by Mr. Irving Rapport and
Mrs. Lavinia D. Robustiniae.
The following communication was received, and on
motion of Regent Beal the action reported in the communication was approved:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following. for consideration if possible at your meeting called for May 21,, 915.
In compliance with a resolution of the Board in Control of Athletics requesting that the Board of Regents, the
University Senate, and the Board in Control of Athletics
each appoint a committee of three to confer on their mutual
athletic relations, the following were selected.
By the Board of Regents: Hon. W. H. Sawyer, Hon.
J. E. Beal, Hon. H. C. Bulkley.
By the University Senate: Professor Victor Lane,
Dean J. R. Effinger, Professor John R. Allen.
By the Board in Control of Athletics: Professor George
W. Patterson, Mr. J. E. Duffy, Professor A. S. Wlhitney.
The Committee met in the office of the President,
Wednesday, April 21, 8 P. M.,, and organized by electing
Regent Sawyer, Chairman, and A. S. Whitney, Secretary.
After considerable discussion is was moved by Professor Patterson and supported by Professor Allen that the
Regents be requested to adopt the following rule governing the selection of Senate members of the Board in Control:




ilAI 1  T' IXtEETI G, IJQI


I7 


Mloved: that the University Senate nominate the Senate members of the Board in Control of Athletics to the
Boar(l of Regents for their approval.
Motion carried.
Moved: that the Committee adjourn.
Motion carried.
W. H. SAWYER, Chairman
A. S. WHITNEY, Secretary
The rlquest of Professor A. G. Hall, as Registrar and
editor of the citalogue, for the purchase of a calculating
machine was referred to the Budget Committee.
On motion of Recent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolzved, That the matter of the employment of an
architect for the Library Building be left with the Buildings and Grounds Committee, with power.
The following resolution adopted by the Building Campaign Committe- of the University of Michigan Union was
personally presented by Dean Bates, accompanied by Judge
Lane of the University Y. M. C. A.: 
Resolvcd, That it be declared the sense of this Committee that the Michigan Union request the Regents to
grant the Students' Christian Association the privilege of
soliciting funds to an amount not to exceed the sum of
$4o,ooo for the completion of a building fund, from such
alumni of the University as have been contributors to the
funds of the said Association during at least two of the
last three or three of the last five years, provided that a
list of said alumni be furnished to this Committee and the
said solicitation shall terminate on July 31, I915.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the communication of the
Campaign Committee of th? Union was received and placed
on file with the approval of the Regents.
A  communication from     Professor Roth setting forth
the desirability of acquirement by the University of land
tracts for a school-forest, was received and filed.
On motion of Regent Beal, Professor A. G. Hall was
appointed Registrar of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts for the Summer Session at the salary of $ioo,
which sum was added to the budg t.




174


MAY MEETING, 91r5


The Secretary presented the claim of the Michigan Central Railroad for $80.29 for the re-railing of a coal car
de-railed at the Heating Plant. On motion of Regent Clements, this matter was referred, with power, to Regent Bulkley, Regent Bulkley not voting.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board laid on the
table a request of the Ann Arbor Federation of Religious
Workers that the official registration blank of the University should include a request to students to signify their
church membership or church.preference.
The following two appointments made by the Secretary
to positions provided for in the budget were approved and
confirmed on motion of Regent Sawyer: 
Neva Creighton, Assistant in History, v'ice,Miss Frances
J. Lakin, resigned, for the balance of the second
semester after April I, Ig95, with salary at the rate
of $350 per year.
William J. Blackburn, Assistant in Ophthalmology, Otology,
Rhinology, and Laryngology, for the balance of the
second semester after April 28, I915, without salary.
Following the recommendation of the Faculty of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, degrees and
teacher's diploma were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF ARTS
Horace Phelps Beale       Roy Randolph Fellers
Elizabeth Thurber Bostwick
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
Carl Goehring
TEACHER'S DIPLOMA
Mary Elizabeth Lynn
The Board of Governors of the Newberry Residence
communicated to the Regents the nomination of Mrs. Erie
Layton Gates as Social Director of the Newberry Residence
and Miss Clara Hunt as Business Manager of the Newberry Residence. On motion of Regent Sawyer, these nominations were confirmed.




MAY MEETING, 1915


I75


On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. John H. Ehlers was appointed Instructor in Botany for the University year I9I5 -1916, at the salary of $1,200, vice Mr. A. J. Pieters, who
leaves the University to take up work in the Federal Department of Agriculture.
Dr. Ruthven, Director of the Zoological Museum, communicated to the Regents the offer of Dr. Bryant Walker,
of Detroit, to bear the expense of a zoological expedition
to the region of Manistique, Michigan, during the coming
summer. On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board expressed its gratitude to Dr. Walker for this further evidence of
his generosity toward the work of the Museum.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, Dr. George R. LaRue, of
the Department of Zoology, was given the title of Honorary
Curator of Parasitology in the Museum.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board laid on the
table, for further investigation, the question of the purchase
of a collection of birds from Dr. W. B. Hinsdale, as recommended by Dr. Ruthven.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following rules recommended by the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts were approved:All first and second year women are required to take
and complete satisfactorily, without credit, a course in
Physical Education to be given twice each week during the
college year under the conditions determined by the Physical
Director for women.
Women students shall also be required to take, during
-their first year of residence, a course of six lectures in
Hygiene to be given by the Women's Physician.
Students will be excused from these requirements only
by permission of the Dean of Women or the Physician for
A.Womell.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted that two
weeks' assistance to Miss Evans, Director of Physical Education for Women, should be provided at the opening of
the University year, with appropriation of such sum  as
should reasonably be required for this purpose. Other items
of requests with respect to Barbour Gymnasium and to the




176


11 MAY M E TING, i 91.5


Health Service work for women; were laid on the table
pending more definite information.
A communication was received from Dean Guthe and, on
motion of Regent Beal, all the appointments to University
Fellowships were made as therein recommended:University Fellowships $500
Zeltah Pauline Buck, A.B., University of MIichigan, 1913.
Psychology.
Leland Earl Crossman, A.B., University of Michigan, I9t3;
A.M., ibid, 19T4. History.
William Ober Raymond, A.B., University of New Brunswick, 19o2; A.M., University   of Michigan, 1912.
Englisih.
Esther Elizabeth  Shaw, A.B., Mount Holyoke College,
I907; A.M., University of Michigan, I908. Rhetoric.
Ambrose Henry S-tang, C.E., Syracuse University, 1910;
A.M., University of Michigan, I915. Physics.
University Fellozwshtips $300
John Abram Aldrich,, A.B., Albion College, I914. A.stro0nomly.
Albert Bradley, A.B., Dartmouth College, 1915. Eco1noIics.
Robert Ellsworth Brown, A.B., University of Illinois, I9o0.
Public Health.
Lena Pearl Duell, A.B., Greenville College, I914. Psychology.
Irby Coghill Nichols, B.S., University of Mississippi, 1906;
A.M.. ibid, I908; M.S. University of Illinois, I912.
Mathematics.
Harrison Gray Otis, A.B., Olivet College, 1907. lMunicipal
Admi;nist ratio1.
James Owen Perrine, A.B., University of Iowa, I909 -Physics.
M. Selden Ruger, A.B.,!Mount Holyoke College, 1907;
A.M., University of Michigan, I914. Chemlistry.
Earl Charles Sherrard, B.S., University of Michigan, 1913;
M.S., ibid, I915. Chemistry.
Ada Laura Fonda Snell, A.B., Mount Holyoke College,
I899; A.M., ibid, 1904. Rhetoric.
State College Fellowzships $300
Phillip A. Coombe, A.B., Olivet College, 1913. Chemlistry.
Florence Field, Albion College. 3Iathem:atics.




MAY AMEETING, i9 5


i77
J /


Albert Fitch, A.B., Albion College, Physics.
Howard H. Hicks, A.B., Hillsdale College, 1914. Eco11on1ics.
Howard L. Kingsley, Adrian College.
Benjamin Harrison Philo, Kalamazoo College. I-istcry.
Bessie Fern Seaver, A.B., Alma College, I9II.
Etha B. Smith, Michigan Agricultural College. Botany.
John Tillema, A.B., Hope College, I914. Economics.
Lawrence J. Toomey, University of Detroit. Eccnomics.
Carl B ra1 un Fellowship $S0oo
Frederick W"illiam Peterson, A.B., Lake Forest College,
IqII. German.
On motion of Regent Bleal, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School the
degree of Master of Arts was conferred upon Robert Walker Adkisson, A.B., Central College, 1911.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of
LL.B. was conferred upon David L. M\acTaggart.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the unused sum of $600
was transferred from the salary budget of the Law School,
$400 to the current expense account and $200 to the equipment account of the School.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Medical Faculty, the certificate of Graduation
from the University I-osptal Training School for Nurses
was votLd to Carrie B. I)unlar.
On motion of Regent l-eal, the Board declined to grant
a request for the privilege of maintaining a private gymnasium supply business in the W\aterman Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent I-ubbard, the Board transferred
the unused sum of $200 from the administration salary roll
of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture to their
administration current expense account.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of Dean Cooley and Secretary Bird, the Board
authorized the return of the outdoor physical education fee
to Joaquin R. Masferrer.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Dean Cooley was authorized to be al sent from the lniversitv such time as circum



I78


MAY MEETING, I915


stances might require for his search for an acceptable candidate to a vacancy in the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
T'he resignation of Mr. R. D. Parker, tendered under
date of May I8, of his position as Assistant Professor in
Electrical Engineering, was received and accepted.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Mr. Harry S. Sheppard
was appointed as Assistant Professor in Electrical Engineering for the University year 1915-191g6, at the salary of
$1,6oo, vice R. D. Parker, resigned.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of Professor Johnston and Dean Cooley, Mr.
J. H. Pringhurst and Mr. J. H. Cissel were appointed as
Instructors at the Summer Camp at the salary of $300 each,
vice Assistant Professor H. G. Raschbacher and Mr. W. G.
Harmon, originally recommended to the Board in the budget at the salaries of $400 and $200 respectively.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote, except
where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion, the Board adjourned to June 3, at 7:oo P. M.
SHIRLTY W\. SMITH,
Secretary.




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, June 3, I915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 8 P. M. Present,
the President, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Gore. Absent, Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hanchett, and Superintendent
Keeler.
The minutes of the meeting of May 21 were approved as
submitted to the Regents in proof, after corrections on pages
164, I68, 174, and 176.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
the Executive Committee, with power, the question of the
salary to be paid Dr. Elsie S. Pratt in 19I5-I916, and the
further question of providing an assistant to Dr. Pratt.
Regent Beal made his report as representative of the
Budget Committee. On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the budget as recommended by the
Budget Committee, amounting to $1,812.158.89 be approved
and adopted as the budget for the University year 1915 -1916; and that the Secretary be given authority to insert the
names of persons proposed later by heads of departments
and approved by the proper dean for academic appointments
below the rank of instructor, and for clerical appointments,
for which compensations have been provided in the budget,
and also authority to group or regroup accounts as may
seem desirable for formal accounting purposes, but without
affecting in any case the actual amounts of appropriations.
On motion of Regent Clements, $Iooo was added to the
budget for providing necessary steel equipment for the vault
of the Treasurer and the Secretary.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that
the salary of Professor Frederick C. Newcombe should be




i8o


SPECIAL JUNE MIEE7TING, 1915


fixed at $3300 per annum, beginning with the University
year T915-I916. This action added $300 to the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board adopted the following resolution:In consideration of the unique services of Professor
Stanley in arranging and installing the Frederick Stearns
Collection of Musical Instruments in the Hill Auditorium,
Resolved, That he be paid two hundred and fifty dollars.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board referred the
question of that portion of the salary of Mr. Philip G. Bartelme, Director of Outdoor Athletics, paid by the University, to the Regents' Committee on Athletics, with the recommendation that this salary should be fixed at $I8oo per annum beginning wi'th the college year 1915-I916, instead of
$1200 as now, Regent Beal not voting.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board laid upon the
table the request for an allowance of $6o as traveling expenses of Mr. J. F. Wilson, should he attend as a University
delegate the meeting of the Society for the Promotion of
Engineering Education.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, leave of absence during
Commencement Week was granted to Assistant Professor
W. D. Moriarty.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
the President, with power, the application of Mr. Adrian A.
Worun for a loan from the I894 Literary Class Fund.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board appointed a
Committee to consist of Dean Effinger, Dean Guthe, and Professor John F. Shepard, to consider and recommend to the
Regents the assignment to new occupants of the quarters
that will be vacated in the buildings of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, by the six Departments which
will next year remove to the new Science Building.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, In the matter of the application of Mr. Lewis
Fisher for authority to solicit funds for the University of
Michigan, that the Regents deem it inexpedient to delegate




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, r915


i8i


such authority; and further that if such solicitation were to
be made, it should be made by a Committee of the Board or
by the President.
On motion of Regent Gore, leave of absence during Commencement Week was granted to Dr. George L. Jackson.
On motion of Regent HIubbard, leave of absence during
Commencement Week was granted to Professor I. L. Sharfman.
On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. J. E. Baker was appointed as Lecturer in Transportation for the first semester of
the academic year I9I5-I916, with salary of $I650, as substitute dui ng the absence of Professor Henry C. Adams,
from whose salary the salary of Dr. Baker is to be paid.
On motion of Regent Beal, Professor Frank T. Stockton, of Indiana University, was appointed Lecturer on Labor Problems for the first semester of the academic year
I915-1916, with salary of $1ooo for the semester, as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. R. S. Tucker was appointed as Instructor in Economics for the University year
I9I5-I916, at the salary of $Iooo, as provided in the budget.
The President presented the following letter of resignation: 
My dear President Hutchins, and the
Honorable Board of Regents:It is with much regret that I present you with my resignation as Professor of English, to take effect after the coming summer. The offer which the Bioard of Regents was
good enough to make me at their last meeting I naturally
could not accept, since it did not agree with what I had
previously felt I must ask for.  Since you and Dean
Effinger have seen the correspondence with Stanford University in which their offer was made, and since the
essential part of it was in your hands during the last
Regents' meeting, you will readily appreciate the situation
in which I have found myself.
Yours very sincerely,
JOHN S. P. TATLOCK.
Ann Arbor, June 2, 1915.




I82


SPEC'IAL JUNE MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Beal, the resignation of Professor
Tatlock was accepted with regret.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, leave of absence during
Commencement Week was granted to Miss Alice Evans.
On motion of Regent Clements, the salary of Professor J. B. Edmondson, University High School Inspector, was
fixed at $2700 per year beginning with the University year
191 5-T916, adding $200 to the budget.
On motion of Regent Gore, leave of absence for Commencement Week was granted to Mr. Jonathan F. Scott.
Regent Buikley filed a certified copy of the will of the
late Professor Richard Hudson.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That, beginning with July I, 1915,, the Secretary be authorized to combine into a single account for each
department or division of the University, appropriations
made for current expenses and new equipment, and that
hereafter all classifications between equipment and current
expenses shall be made in the Secretary's office. At the end
of each fiscal year the net balances of appropriations for
equipment shall as now, be carried over to the credit of the
department for the succeeding year.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that the
matter of the purchase of forty-eight acres of woodland
should be referred to a Committee consisting of Regent
Beal, and the President and Secretary, with power to purchase this land at not to exceed $200 per acre, Regent Beal
not voting.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board authorized
the purchase at the price of $330, of the collection of birds
owned bv Dean W. B. Hinsdale. It was understood that
the collection should include a specimen of the passenger
pigeon.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
traveling expenses of Regent Beal from November I6, 1914
to April 28, I915, inclusive, these expenses amounting to
$o06.43.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board granted the
request of Samuel Witting, a member of the present Senior




SPECIAL.- JUNE Mi/EETING, 1915


i83


class, that his name should appear on his diploma as "Samuel Witting," instead of as "Paul Samuel Witting," the latter
being the form under which Mr. Witting had been registered throughout his University course.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board granted the
request of Mr. Harold Silverstein, a Senior in the College
of Dental Surgery, that his diploma should read "Harold
Adair Silverstein," instead of "Harold Silverstein" as his
University records have read during his course.
A petition was received from Mr. Samuel J. Rosenstein,
a member of the Senior Law Class, requesting that as Mr.
Rosenstein was taking legal proceedings to. have his name
changed to Samuel J. Rhodes, and as these proceedings
cou'ld not be completed before July 7, his diploma might read
"Samuel J. Rhodes."
The case of Mr. Leon Basil Cohen, who is proceeding
similarly to have his name changed to "Leon Basil Cowan,"
was also presented. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the
Board voted that should degrees be granted before the legal
proceedings in these cases were completed, the diploma must
bear the legal name of the candidate at the time the degree
was granted. It was suggested that these seniors might
postpone the taking of their degrees until the July meeting
at which time the legal proceedings in their cases would be
completed.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Professor Demmon was
asked to formulate for the consideration of the Board rules
governing requests for changes in names on University student records, including diplomas.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the question of the purchase of newspapers, referred at the May meeting to the
Budget Committee (see page I71) was referred to Regent
Clements and Professor Van 'Tyne, with power to make
this purchase at a cost not to exceed $20oo, Regent Clements not voting.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote when not
expressly stated otherwise.
On motion, the Board adjourned to June 22 at Io A. M.
SHIRTLEY W. SIIT'H, Secretary.




JUNE MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, JUNE 22, 1915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at io A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Hubbard.
Absent, Regent Leland, Regent Gore, and Regent Hanchett,
who later took his seat, and Superintendent Keeler.     Dr.
James B. Angell, President-Emeritus, also sat with the
Regents during a portion of the session, on special invitation
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of June 3, as submitted to the members in proof, were
approved for printing after corrections on page I79.
Regent Beal filed the following contract embodying the
terms of the agreement authorized by the Regents at their
meeting of April 28 (see page 153):This agreement made and concluded this fourteenth day
of June, 1915, by and between the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan, hereinafter known as the University,
the Civic Association of Ann Arbor through R. W. Hemphill, Jr., Chairman of the City Planning Committee, hereinafter known as the Association; and Olmsted Brothers,
Landscape Architects of Brookline, Mass., hereinafter
known as the Landscape Architects
WIT NBS SEVH
That for and in consideration of the preparation of
plans and a report as hereinafter provided the said University agrees to pay to the Landscape Architects the sums
of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.0o) 'on or before
June Ist, I916, and seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
on or before June Ist, 1917,
And that for and in consideration of the preparation
of plans and a report as hereinafter provided the said
Association agrees to pay to the Landscape Architects the
sums of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.oo) on or
before June Ist, I916, and seven hundred and fifty ($750.00)
on or before June Ist, 1917,




i86


JUNiE MEETING, 1915


And that for and in consideration of the aforesaid
payments to he made to the Landscape Architects, the Landscape Architects agree to make visits to Ann Arbor at such
times as can be conveniently arranged by them to familiarize themselves with the condition of the properties of the
University, of the City as a whole, and of the surrounding
country, and for consultation with the various authorities
controlling said properties, city and surrounding country,
in order to obtain information necessary to the preparation
of preliminary plans and recommendations for improvements; and further to prepare preliminary plans and a
report for guidance in the development and improvement
of said University and City in so far as such plans and
recommendations can be made upon the basis of surveys,
maps and plans now available, provided that it is understood
that said Landscape Architects shall not be required under
this agreement to prepare detailed plans for construction
or detailed plans for planting in any part of the work.
In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
seals this day and year as first above written.
Witnesses:                Parties:
R. W. HEMP HIIL, JR.       University:
as to J. E. BEAL           J.E. EBEALT
HARRY C. BULKLEY             WILLIAM L. CL~,IENTS
L. MCCARTHY                Association:
as to R. W. HExMPHILL, JR.  R. W. HEMPHILL, JR.
SARAH 'OLMSTED             Landscape Architects:
as to OLMSTED BROTHERS     OLMSTED BROTHERS
by F. L. OLMISTED,
member of firm.
The President and Secretary filed the following report:To the Honorable Board of Regents:The undersigned, acting as your Committee under the
resolution appearing on page 138 (March Proceedings),
have accepted from the Students' Christian Association a
deed in the following form of the property known as the
"Newberry Residence." In accordance with the resolution
this deed had the approval of Dean Henry M. Bates as
counsel of the Board, as "satisfactory in form and in its
statement of the condition upon which the said property is
conveyed."  An abstract of title approved by Messrs.




JUNE MEETING, I915                       187
Cavanaugh & Burke accompanied the deed. The deed is
as follows:"This indenture, made this tenth day of April in the
year one thousand nine hundred and fifteen, between the
Students' Christian Association of the University of Michigan, as party of the first part, and the Regents of the
University of Michigan, as party of the second part,
"WITNI;SStETH, That the said party of the first part, for
and in consideration of the sum of one dollar to it in hand
paid by the said party of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby confessed and acknowledged, does by these
presents grant, bargain, sell, remise, release, alien and confirm unto the said party of the second part, and to its
successors and assigns forever, subject, however, to the
condition hereinafter set forth, all that certain piece
or parcel of land situate and being in the City of Ann
Arbor, County of Washtenaw and State of Michigan, and
described as follows:
"Lot numbered five (5), of Block numbered four (4),
South, of Range nine (9), East, according to the recorded
plat of the Ann Arbor Land Company's Addition to the
Village, (now city), of Ann Arbor, in said County and
State, together with all and singular the hereditaments and
appurtenances thereunto belonging or in anywise appertaining:
"To HAVVE AND TO HOLI) the said premises, as herein
described, with the appurtenances thereto, unto the said
party of the second part, and to its successors and assigns
forever, UPON CONDITION however, that the property herein
conveyed, consisting of the lot above described together
with the building thereon, shall be maintained and operated
as a "residence hall" for women students of the University
of Michigan, and the net income arising therefrom, after
operating expenses and the expenses of upkeep are discharged, shall be paid to the party of the first part to be
used by it in the maintenance of its work for the women of
the University, and the acceptance of this conveyance shall
be construed as an acceptance of the obligations of this
condition, and a breach of it shall entitle the party of the
first part to a reconveyance of the lands above described.
"And the said party of the first part, for itself, its
successors and assigns, does covenant, grant, bargain and
agree to and with the said party of the second part, its successors and assigns, that at the time of the ensealing and




I88


JUNE MEETING, 1915


delivery of these presents, it is well seized of the above
granted premises in fee simple; that they are free from all
incumbrances whatever, and that it will, and its successors
and assigns shall, WARRANT AND DEErND the same against
all lawful claims whatsoever.
"IN WITNESS WHFEReOr, the said party of the first part
'has, pursuant to the direction of its board of trustees,
caused this instrument to be executed in its own proper
name (it having no corporate seal), by its President and
Secretary, the day and year first above written.
Signed,
Sealed and        "THE STUDENTS' CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
delivered in the     oI' THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
presence of       by VICTOR H. LANE
BELt.E KLINE       as President of its Board of- Trustees
R. A. CAMPIBEJ, and WELLINGTON H. TINKER
as Secretary of its Board of Trustees."
(Report signed by) H. B. HUTCHINS, President
SHIRIY W. SMITH, Secretary
June Io, I915.
Regent Bulkley reported unfavorably with respect to an
offer from  Mr. Joseph Grindley to purchase certain real
estate in Detroit (see page I68).
The President reported that September I had been designated as University of Michigan Day at the Panama-Pacific
Exposition in San Francisco (see page I69).
The President stated that dedication exercises for the
Newberry Residence could not expediently be held during
the Commencement proceedings but might be held later.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $110.25 was
allowed for the purchase of a calculating machine for the
office of the Registrar of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts (see page I73).
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolvcd, That Mr. Albert Kahn, of Detroit, be appointed as architect for the new Library building.
The President reported that he had authorized a loan
from the I894 Literary Class Fund to Mr. Adrian A. Worun
(see page 80o).
Regent Hanchett took his seat.




JUNE MEETING, 1915


189


On motion of Regent Clements and on his estimate that
the expenditures could be made within the amount originally
allowed for the new Science Building, the Board authorized
the following expenditures for that building:Elevator.................................$......$,800
Vacuum cleaner system............................,000
Library   stacks.....................................  3,000
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That a committee consisting of Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements, and Regent Hanchett be authorized
to incur an expense of $I,000 or less to secure a preliminary
survey or ground plan of hospital construction adapted to
the needs of this University.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, leave of absence for the
University year 1915-I916 for the purpose of study and
research was granted to Assistant Professor R. R. Mellon
of the Homoeopathic Medical School on condition that Dr.
Mellon should, at his own expense, make provision, adequate
and satisfactory to the Dean and the President, for the care
and conduct of his work during his period of absence.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Mr. Alfred H. Povah
was appointed to the Emma J. Cole Fellowship in Botany
for the year I915-I916, with a stipend of $500.
A communication was received from Professor Alfred
H. White, with another communication on the same subject
from Dean Guthe, relative to the payment of fees by holders
of the Gas Engineering Fellowship and other commercial
fellowships. On motion of Regent Bulkley, this communication was referred to a committee consisting of the President
and two members of the Board to be appointed by the
President, with the request that they report thereon at the
July meeting. The President named Regent Bulkley and
Regent Beal as the other members of the committee.
On motion of Regent Beal, the salary of Assistant Professor W. F. Hunt was increased to $I,800 for the year
I915-I916. The sum allowed for Assistants in the Department of Mineralogy was decreased by $Ioo.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




Igo


JUNE MEETING, 1915


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2 P. M. Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent
Bulkley, and Regent Hanchett. Absent, Regent Leland, Regent Gore, Superintendent Keeler, and Regent Clements who
later took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board ordered the
following distribution of the sum of $Io,ooo allowed in the
budget for new equipment for the Departments to occupy
the Science Building:Botany...........................................  $2, I20
Forestry.........................................  875
Geology...........................................   I,oo
M ineralogy........................................  1,300
Psychology..........................................  800
Zoology............................................ 3,805
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery,
the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon
the following persons:

Albertus Hiebner Ackerman
Lawrence Ernest Aldrich
Simon Alperin
Harold Arthur Badger
Wilber Edwin Bailey
Garnet Douglas Beierl
Lloyd B. Bond
Arnold Bosscher
Charles Philip Bower
George Jacob Broodman
Carroll Stewart Brown
Robert Brown
Carlton Fritz Cantor
Willem Hugo Cilliers
Howard Isaac Clark
Walter Charles Collins
Claude Lionel Cross
William Walter Davis
Marion Cornelius Dekker
Howard Ralph Dingier
Robert Lewis Donaldson
Marion Llewellynn Drake
Seymour LeGrande Elliott
Ralph Fanning Enstine
Reginald Lawrence Felton


Bernard Basil Foster
Edward Clare Freeland
William Ignatius French
Clifton George Frye
John Nesbit Gallagher
Veder Donald Gardner
LeRoy Frederick Garrison
Warren Potter Gibson
Clinton Stephen Hafford
Vern Sullivan Harshman
Robert Ellis Haskett
Harold David Henderson
William Hannan Hubbard
Arthur Collins James
Neil Freeman Jones
Alfred William Kany
John Albert Kimmel
Anldrew Kfihn
Forrest Hart Kurtz
Burr Wilson Lathrop
Lyle Curtis Ling
Roger Sheaffe Loring
Stanley Carl Lucas
Wesley McConalogue
Frank Wallace McDonald




JUNE MEETING, 1915


I9I


James MacKeown MacVicar
Harold Richard Mead
William Clarence Melvin
William Will Mitchell
Clarence Morgan Mote
Clarence Henry Moyer
Cecil Ray Mull
Raymond Edward Nichols
Ardashes Jivelegyan Nishon
Leo John O'Brien
Earl Compton Peabody
Herbert Frederick Pedler
John Herschell Penhale
Harold Edgar Rice
Bertsel Donald Roe


Harold David Rose
Clarence William Schroeder
Lawrence August Sherry
John Clinton Shoemaker
Harold Adair Silverstein
Einar William Sivula
Walter Alojsius Slazinski
Roy Earle Smith
William Emerson Smith
Harry Charles Striffler
Gerald Dorris Strong
Frederick Richard Charles
Thorold
Elliel Axel Waara
William Herbert Waller
Ralph McKinley Waltz
Leo James Witmire


On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical
School, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred
upon the following persons:

Jesse William Allen
Van Dale Barnes
William J. Blackburn, M.D.,
Pulte Medical College
John Ferguson Blinn, M.S.,
New Mexico College of
Agriculture and Mechanical Arts
James J. Conlon
Harry H. Hammel
Hugh Rannells Hildebrant


Howard Morton Holcombe
Ira Dean McCoy
Colin Campbell Owen
Frederick Pietz
Frank Freeman Pray
Cortlandt Whitehead Schepeler
Norman Smith Starr
Charles Daniel Toole
Floyd Raymond Town


On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy, degrees
were conferred as follows:PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST


Richard Gordon Arner
Osborne Allen Brines
James William Higgins
Robert Murray McGregor


John Lynn Osborn, Ph.C.,
University of Kansas
Emmert Henry Woodhouse


GRADUATTE IN PHARMACY


Lloyd Laverne Andrus
Roland Conn Brown
William Ewart Feek


George Karl Finzel
Clarence Ernest Pitkin




I92


JUNE MEETING, 191i


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY)


Gordon Alger Bergy, Ph.C.
Osborne Allen Brines
Albert Henry Clark, Ph.G.,
University of Illinois
Edward George Curtiss,
Ph.C.
Charles Ralph Eckler, Ph.C.
Carl Phillips Field
Armin Herrman Hauenstein


William  Fred Kunke
Robert Edgar Morse, Ph.C.
Robert Loyal Perkins,
Ph.C.,  Valparaiso  Universit,'
Frank Edward Prentice
Earl Virgil Rice
Ralph Bolter Shivel
Henson Hoff Thomas, B.S.


On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF SCIENCE


Frank Jarvis Atwood, A.B.,
State College of Washington
Galo Wenceslao Blanco
Max A. Blumer
Henry Stuart Breathwaite
Grover Roswell Bromley
Harry Clyde Carver
Jacob Harold Chalat
Lynn Adelbert Ferguson
William Stephen Gonne
Gurney Otto Gutekunst
Bernard Stanley Hone
Rolla George Karshner
Ernest Carl Luebben


Harold Abiud Miller
Vincent John O'Conor
Russell Aaron Alger Oldfield
Rudolph  Herman    Ruedemann
Claire LeRoy Straith
Cornelius Tiesenga
C. 0. Trumbull, Jr.
Russell William Ullrich
Ralph Marean Vincent
Harry Henry Watkins
Brice Couch Worley
Hiram Samuel Yellen


BACHELOR OF ARTS'


Walter Benedict Adams
Calvin Bennett Ainsworth
Faye Wilkins Allen
Jose Alum
Flora Bennett Ames
George William Anderson
Claude Annan
Margaret Louisa Armstrong
Doane Lathrop Avery
James Walker Avery
Francis Adolf Bade
Huldah Bancroft
Anna Claire Barron
Frank Montell Bartow
Nora Mae Bartrem
Edwin Joseph Bartz
Elden Charles Baumgarten
Myron Louis Begeman


Douglas Hyde Bell
Irving Edison Bender
Leray Doig Benedict
Albert Arms Bennett
Stanard Gustaf Bergquist
Daniel DeWitt Bernard
Esther Betz
Helena Augusta Beutler
Edith Estella Bingham
Walter Duane Bird
Marie Josephine Boos
Minerva Luella Bowen
Enos Bradner
Romaine Bramwell
Edgar Clay Britton
Florence Maybelle Brown
William Kilgore Brown
Arthur Louis Brunner




JUNE MEETING, 1915


I93


Helen Stewart Burlingham
Vera Mildred Burridge
Clesson Taggart Bushnell
Ethel May Buzby
Bella Margaret Cameron
Catharine Maria Campbell
Mary Lavinia Ives Campbell
Donald Eugene Carey
Alice Ruth Carpenter
Erwin Lester Carroll
William Soloman Caswell
James Bland Catlett
Chow On Chan
Elbridge Wellington Chapman
William Byer Chase
Ruth Jeanette Christensen
Albert Tuttle Clark
Harry Leroy Clark
Helen Lucy Clark
Mary Laura Clark
Aurora Wetherbee Clement
Susanna Ada Clough
Martha Agnes Colborne
Alice Loretto Connelly
Emmett Francis Connely
Anita Connors
Genevieve Columbia Corkell
Edward Albert Cournyer
Etta Jean Craig
Ruth Dulty Crandall
Clyde Jacokes Creaser
Mary Creighton
Innez Lucile Crill
Evelyn Mae Dancer
Jean Davidson
Wilbur Seymour Davidson
Florence Marian Davis
Gertrude Haug Davis
Russell Eugene Dean
Metta Edythe DeBarr
Marjorie Delavan
Beulah West DeLong
Marguerite Julia Denfeld
Catherine Louise Densmore
Grace Marguerite Dewey
Herbert Daniel Dieterle
George Edwin Donnell
Gertrude Margaret Doyle
Lenore Cozadd Draper
Elsa Matilda Drittler
Lela Adelaide Duff
James Krotzer Durling
Adeline June Dykes


Celestia Ellen Eddy
Ralph Lewis Emmons
Oliver Bruce Enselman
John Martin Erwin
Caroline Eleanor Farr
Kathleen Beatrice Field
Willis Sherwood Field
Ferris Humphrey Fitch
Marjorie Fitch
Harold Renwick Flint
Honora Marie Fogerty
Margaret Ruth Foote
Ethyl Marion Fox
Karolena M. Fox
Elna Maria Fredeen
Louis Kossuth Friedman
Leo Joseph Fries
Leland Ritter Funk
Eli Albert Gallup
Samuel Raymond Gardner
Bruce Frederick Gates
Ralph Fesler Gates
Harry G. Gault
William McKee German
Julia Mary Gerwin
Anna Leone Gieske
Judith Ginsburg
Vivian Mae Glauz
Ethel Luella Goff
Hazel Blanche Goodrich
Bessie Gordon
Clarence Baker Goshorn
Faith Goss
Otis Paine Grant
John Milton Gregory
Stuart W. Griffin
Elmer Hiram Groefsema
Marguerite Emma Haag
Hildegarde Hazel Hagerman
Lenore Haimbaugh
Philetus Doty Hall
Wesley Willard Hall
Helene Hermine Haller
Conda Jenkins Ham
Gertrude Vera Hanna
Nellie Julia Hanna
Frank   McCullough  Hartsook
Harry Mack Hawley
Florence Gertrude Haxton
Josephine Marie Hayden
Helen Maurine Hayes
Edwin Ray Hazen
Elinor Heap




194


JUNE MEETING, _1915


Daniel Joy Heathcote
Edna May Hendershott
Jules Joseph Herbert
Ellzadie Marie Heusel
Frances Louise Hickok
Jane Lockard Hicks
William John Hiller
Mabel Deliliah Hinds
Rudolph Joseph Hofmann
Fanny Bigelow Hogan
Anne Drew Holland
Earl Davis Holtby
Kathleen Charlotte Holznagle
Jeanette Mabelle Hooper
Bertrice Marian Hopkins
Harry Howick
Frank Lothrop Hoyer
Mary Pearne Hubbard
Ella Pearl Hunsberger
Ada Micheaux Inglis
William Tren Isbell
Clement Howes Jackman
Efton Murrel James
Carlton Howard Jenks
George Desha Johnson
Edward McKeehan Johnston
George Sutton Johnston
Laura Julien
Meta Clara Jungnitsch
Delta May Kauffman
Horton Keiser
Francis Anthony Kelly
Ralph Francis Khuen
Raymond Samuel Kidder
Russell Donald Kilborn
Lawrence Kinnaird
Pauline Kleinstiick
Stella Christena Knapp
John Rutter Kneebone
Anna Lora Knevels
Alma Marie Knoepp
Herman Frederick Krause
Henrietta Vaughan Kremer
Harold Milton Lacy
Henry Knowlton Lane
Chester Henry Lang
Norbert Adolph Lange
Ray Victor Leffler
Ruth Levine
Harry Phyletus Lewis
Mary Proctor Lewis
Florence Mae Litchfield
George Washington Logan


Arthur Walter Long
Edith Lounsbury
Esther Josephine Love
Carroll Finster Lum
Rena Marguerite Lundell
Mary Elizabeth Lynn
Edith Rebecca Macauley
Martin Edgar McCarty
Robert James McCloy
Verna Isabel McCreery
Cyrus Lewis McCullough
Alexander McDonald
George Tremaine McDowell
Roscoe Conklin McIntyre
Marcus Salisbury McKinstry
Jessie Aurelia McNamara
Marion McPherson
Helen Josephine Malcom,
son
Walter George Marburger
Grace Irene Marquedanf
Bertha Bruce Marsh
Edward John Martin
Elizabeth Greene Mason
William Elmer Mathews
Tane Helen Mayer
Rose Mary Mayer
Florence Knowlton Middaugh
Harry Arthur Miller
Herman Lester Miller
Jean Miller
Ruth Bertha Miller
Clare Leon Milton
Carl Mitcheltree
Edith Grace Moiles
Alphons Peter Momenee
Ronald Russell Monroe
Mary Birnie Morrison
Helen Roberts Morse
Allen Watson Mothersill
Lena Belle Mott
Hortense Marie Mueller
Marcia Rebecca Munsell
Natalie Elizabeth Murphy
Margaret Murray
Ellen Victoria Nord
Neva Norton
Mildred Nuechterlein
Whitney Ogden
James Harold O'Hara
Jay Leslie O'Hara
Patrick Victor O'Hara
Helen O'Leary




JUNE MEETING, 1915


I95


Bertha Lorraine Olsen
Edward Gerald O'Neill
Elsie Ellen Overmyer
Margaret Caswell Page
William Beresford Palmer,
Jr.
Roy Madison Parsons
Warren Godfrey Pavette
Robert Ellsworth Payne
Dorothy May Peet
Ben Edwin Perry
Philip Ernst Petermann
Henry William Petersen
Ruie Pinney
Elizabeth Platt
David Polasky
Harold Woo r at P )ineroy
Ethel May P.:atc
Mary Martha Purdy
Florence Katherine Qu'tinan
Louis Willia.-i Rab)e
Clara Mabel Ree(l
Ma-iy Ethqi. R]eed
Mildred Ma.rie Rees
Ca:herine  Facc.r.nd  Reighard
Ethili Adele 'inrl(ells
Grace Louise R;:,v. 1.!c
Genevieve Ly-e -iggs
Blanche Josephlin-!<-.sing
Hunter Savidge, Robbins
Evelyn HorLense Roberts
Grace Marian Robertson
Doris Harriott.Robinson
Sadie Fannie Robinson
Clara Goldsmith Roe
Dorothy May Roehm
Evelyn Grace Roehm
Howard Dykema Roelofs
Marie Beatrice Ronan
Chester Holbert Ross
Ernest Charles Roth
Ernest Albert Paul Ruedemann
Francis Thayer Russell
El Conan Henry Saulson
Helen King Schoeffel
Florence Helena Scott
Jennie Evelyn Morris Scott
Howard Francis Seely
Henry Mortimer Senter
as of the class of I896
Bessie Lillian Servis
Abilgail Roe Shay
Josephine Sherzer


Russell Brayley Silsby
Anna Leah Simson
'William Ewart Skillen
Samuel John Skinner
Lois Gloria Slee
Frederick Vernon Slocum
Esther Fowler Smith
J. Frank Smith
Mary Genevieve Smith
Ross Huston Smith
James Everett Snider
Gertrude Elizabeth Snow
Frank Righter Snyder
Morris Berger Sonnenschein
Albert Elton Spaulding
Clara Regina Stahl
Mamie Florence Stahlem
Beatrice Eva Stanton
Margaret Helen Steere
Bernice Stewart
Eva Regina Stroh
Irene Lucile Stroup
Charles Barnes Stuart
Edwin   Friedrich  Sunderman
Eng Su Sy
Harold Gladstone Tait
Alice Taylor
William Bouton Thom
Annie Franklin Thomas
Della McCurdy Thompson
Vera Gertrude Thompson
Grace Jane Thorne
John Thors
Lois Irma Townley
Frank Sias Towsley
Mary Eunice True
Pang Yuen Tseo
Ethel Mae Turner
Marguerite Marie Ullrich
Harry James Vandawarker
Gertrude Mabel Vanderhoof
Clarence Vliet
Dorothea von Walthausen
Mary Clewell Waggoner
Frank Earl Waite
Marian Claire Wallace
Earl Delehanty Warner
Charles Francis Watkins
John Rhoades Watkins
Bernice Grace Watson
Ray Bradshaw Watters




196


JUNE MEETING, 1915


Catharine Mary Weadock
Charles Clarence Webber
Charlotte Elizabeth Weller
Ruth Jeanette Weltmann
Christian N. Wenger
Bessie Belle White
Jay Manson Whittey
Alice Margaret Wiard
Ernestine  Constance Wilhelm
Annie Cleveland Williams
John Tyler Williams
Mildred Belle Williams


Frances Marianne Williamson
Paul Samuel Witting
Florence Helen Wixson
Willard Wendell Wixson
Joseph Gregory Wolber
Laura Wolverton
Margaret Thelma Wooley
Guy Lansdell Woolfolk
Mark Lane Worth
Lillian Victoria Wright
Donald Belknap Wurzburg
Florence Barlow Younglove


On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, Teachers' Diplomas were granted as follows:

Flora Bennett Ames
Margaret Louisa Armstrong
Mildred McKean Armstrong
Frank Jarvis Atwood
Doane Lathrop Avery
Huldah Bancroft
Nora Mae Bartrem
Albert Arms Bennett
Helena Augusta Beutler
Edith Estella Bingham
Marie Josephine Boos
Minerva Luella Bowen
Romaine Bramwell
Grover Roswell Bromley
Florence Maybelle Brown
William Kilgore Brown
Vera Mildred Burridge
Bella Margaret Cameron
Donald Eugene Carey
Alice Ruth Carpenter
William  Soloman Caswell
William Byer Chase
Ruth Jeanette Christensen
Mary Laura Clark
Aurora Wetherbee Clement
Susanna Ada Clough
Martha Agnes Colborne
Alice Loretto Connelly
Anita Connors
Genevieve Columbia Corkell
Edward Albert Cournyer
Etta Jean Craig
Ruth Dulty Crandall
Clyde Jacokes Creaser
Mary Creighton
Evelyn Mae Dancer


Jean Davidson
Gertrude Haug Davis
Metta Edythe DeBarr
Beulah West DeLong
Marguerite Julia Denfeld
Catherine Louise Densmore
Grace Marguerite Dewey
Arthur Dondineau
Gertrude Margaret Doyle
Lenore Cozadd Draper
Elsa Matilda Drittler
Lela Adelaide Duff
Celestia Ellen Eddy
Caroline Eleanor Farr
Kathleen Beatrice Field
Marjorie Fitch
Honora Marie Fogerty
Margaret Ruth Foote
Ethel Marion Fox
Karolena M. Fox
Elna Maria Fredeen
Julia Mary Gerwin
Vivian Mae Glauz
Ethel Luella Goff
Hazel Blanche Goodrich
Bessie Gordon
Jane Kirkland Graham
Mary Gregg
Hildegarde Hazel Hagerman
Lenore Haimbaugh
Helene Hermine Haller
Gertrude Vera Hanna
Nellie Julia Hanna
Josephine Marie Hayden
Helen Maurine Hayes




JUNE MEETING, 1915


I97


Elinor Heap
Daniel Joy Heathcote
Edna May Hendershott
Jane Lockard Hicks
Mabel Deliliah Hinds
Fanny Bigelow Hogan
Anne Drew Holland
Kathleen  Charlotte  Holznagle
Jeanette Mabelle Hooper
Bertrice Marian Hopkins
Harry Howick
Ella Pearl Hunsberger
Ada Micheaux Inglis
George Desha Johnson
Delta May Kauffman
Lawrence Kinnaird
Stella Christena Knapp
Herman Frederick Krause
Henrietta Vaughan Kremer
Norbert Adolph Lange
Ruth Levine
Harry Phyletus Lewis
Mary Proctor Lewis
Florence Mae Litchfield
Esther Josephine Love
Rena Marguerite Lundell
Mary Elizabeth Lynn
Edith Rebecca Macauley
Martin Edgar McCarty
Verna Isabel McCreery
Marion McPherson
Walter George Marburger
Grace Irene Marquedant
Bertha Bruce Marsh
Edward John Martin
Elizabeth Greene Mason
William Elmer Mathews
Jane Helen Mayer
Florence  Knowlton   Middaugh
Jean Miller
Ruth Bertha Miller
Clare Leon Milton
Carl Mitcheltree
Edith Grace Moiles
Helen Roberts Morse
Lena Belle Mott
Natalie Elizabeth Murphy
Margaret Murray
Ellen Victoria Nord
Neva Norton
Mildred Nuechterlein
Helen O'Leary
Elsie Ellen Overmyer


Margaret Caswell Page
Dorothy May Peet
Ruie Pinney
Mary Martha Purdy
Florence Katherine Quinlan
Clara Mabel Reed
Mary Ethel Reed
Mildred Marie Rees
Grace Louise Reynolds
Blanche Josephine Rising
Evelyn Hortense Roberts
Florence Elizabeth Robertson
Grace Marian Robertson
Doris Harriott Robinson
Sadie Fannie Robinson
Dorothy May Roehm
Evelyn Grace Roehm
Marie Beatrice Ronan
Chester Holbert Ross
Lucy Saunders
Helen King Schoeffel
Florence Helena Scott
Howard Francis Seely
Josephine Sherzer
Russell Brayley Silsby
Anna Leah Simson
Lois Gloria Slee
Mary Genevieve Smith
Morris Berger Sonnenschein
Albert Elton Spaulding
Mamie Florence Stahlem
Bernice Stewart
Eva Regina Stroh
Eng Su Sy
Della McCurdy Thompson
Vera Gertrude Thompson
Grace Jane Thorne
John Thors
Cornelius Tiesenga
Lois Irma Townley
Frank Sias Towsley
Marguerite Marie Ullrich
Gertrude  Mabel Vanderhoof
Clarence Vliet
Mary Clewell Waggoner
Frank Earl Waite
Marian Claire Wallace
Bernice Grace Watson
Catherine Mary Weadock
Charlotte Elizabeth Weller
Ruth Jeanette Weltmann
Faith Mabel Welton




I98


JUNE MEETING, 1915


Christian N. Wenger
Bessie Belle White
Alice Margaret Wiard
Ernestine  Constance   Wilhelm
Annie Cleveland Williams
Frances Marianne Williamson


Florence Helen Wixson
Willard Wendell Wixson
Joseph Gregory Wolber
Laura Wolverton
Margaret Thelma Wooley
Mark Lane Worth
Lillian Victoria Wright
Florence Barlow Younglove


On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, the degree
of Doctor of MAedicine was conferred upon the following
persons:

Richards Ellison Amos,
B.S.
Tuan Antonio Bonilla, A.B.
Linus Reed Cranmer, B.S.
George James Curry, B.S.
Carl Benjamin DeForest,
A.B.
Joe DePree, A.B.,
Hope College
Rachel  Eleanor   Donnell,
A.B., Smith College
Lucy  MacMillan   Elliott,
A.B., Smith College
Bertha Cary Woodhams
Ellis, A.B.
Herbert William Emerson,
Ph.C., B.S. (Phar.)
Perley B. Exelby, A.B.,
Albion College
Carl Grover Frost, B.S.
Albert Carl Furstenberg,
B.S.
Carl Goehring, B.S.
Oliver Herman Heidt, B.S.
Frank Park Hunter, B.S.
Charles Reuben Keller, B.S.
Ezra Edwin Koebbe, B.S.
Rollan Walter Kraft, B.S.
Walter Ivan Lillie
Maurice Rosenthal Lohman,
A.B.


Henry Eugene McClenahan,
B.S.
George Manting
Frederick Cleland Mayne,
B.S.
Nelson Allen Myll, B.S.
Charles Samuel Pascoe
Monroe Patterson, A.B.,
F;isk University
Alonzo Bond Persley, A.B.,
Lincoln University
Ray Arthur Pinkham
Avery DeHart Prangen,
B.S.
Clara Adelaide Sargent,
A.B., Bessie Tift College
Robert Felix'Schanz, B.S.
Lester Charles Scully, B.S.
John Wesley Sherrick, B.S.
Alonzo Covert Smith, A.B.
Orlow Chapin Snyder, A.B.,
Indiana University
George Douglas Sutton,
B.S., Alma College, A.M.,
Columbia University
Oscar M. Unger, B.S.
George Van Rhee, A.B.
Sherman Carl Ward
Marshall Agnew Welbourn,
B.S.


On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
degrees were conferred as follows:

MASTER OF SCIENCE
Carlyn Chase Delavan, A.B.
Henry Walstane deNancrede, A.B.


(IN FORESTRY)
George   Conrad  Hammer,
A.B.
Roy L. Hogue, A.B.




JUNE MEETING, 1915
MASTFR OF SCIENCE (IN ENGINEERING)


I99


Wihtred Cook, B.C.E.
Walter August Erley,
B.FE..
Homer Thomas Hood,
B.Ch.E.
Austin Sinclair Irvine,
B.Ch.E.


Floyd August Nagler, B.S.,
Mlichigan Agricultural
College
Arthur Ruettgers, B.S.,
Allgliheny College


MASTER OF SCIENCE (IN PUBLIC HEALTH)


Wiilliam  DeKleine, A.B.,
Hope College, M.D.,
Northwestern    University
George Dawson Heath, Jr.,


M.D., University of Louisville
William Levin, A.B.,
Harvard University


MASTER OF SCIENCE


Henry Carter Adams, Jr.,
A.B.
John Abram Aldrich, A.B.,
Albion College
Robert Atkinson, B.Ch.E.
Harry Newton Cole, A.B.,
B.S., (Ch.E.)
Jnanada Charan DasGupta,
B.S. (Phar.)
John Randolph Dean, B.S.
(Phar.)


Hilda Hempl, A.B.,
Stanford University
L. Coleman Ludlum, B.S.
Ralph Maitland McCormick,
B.S.
Elroy John Miller, B.S.
Trevor Samuel Muffitt, A.B.
Paul Victor Siggers, B.S.
Alvin Strickler, B.S.
Chester Owen Wisler,
B.C.E.


MASTER OF ARTS


Mildred McKean Armstrong, A.B., Adrian College
John Fleming Atkins, A.B.,
Virginia Christian College
Wayne Jason Atwell, A.B.,
Nebraska Wesleyan University
Gladys Southworth Babcock, A.B., Kalamazoo
College
Sybil Kennedy Bennett,
Ph.B., Syracuse University
Walter Gregory Bowerman,
A.B., Haverford College
Helen Elizabeth Brown,
A.B.
Eilene Mae Browne, A.B.
Lucie Elise Madeleine
Buchler, A.B.
Zeltah Pauline Buck, A.B.
Mildred Mary Burns, A.B.


Mary' Elizabeth Connell,
A.B., Vassar College
Louise Thompson Crandell,
B.L., Linden1wood College
Vernon Culp, A.B.
Arthur Dondineau, A.B.
Hazel Katherine Dutt, A.B.
Mary Gregg, A.B.,
Adrian College
Grace May Harrison, A.B.,
Albion College
Kate Chapman Slater Hubbard. Ph.B.. Alma College
Edith Belle Hurley, A.B.
Robert Ellsworth Jacobson.
A.B., Knox College
Mary Blanchard Jefferds,
A.B.
Mary Engle Kahler, Ph.B.,
Ohio University
James Luke Keddie, A.B.,
Hillsdale College
Sonia Iadoff, A.B.




200


JUNE MEETING, i9I5


Robert Porter Lane, A.B.
Helen Ogden Mahin, A.B.,
DePauw University
Lewis Leroy Mellor, A.B.
Dorothy Isabella Morrill,
A.B., Mount Holyoke
College
Albert Becker Peck, A.B.,
Syracuse University
Theophile Raphael, A.B.
Florence Marie Rennie,
A.B.
Florence Elizabeth Robertson, A.B., Hillsdale College
Lucy Saunders, A.B.,
Western University
Helen Ballard Schmitz,
A.B., Wilson College
Marguerite Cadwell Scott,
A.B.
Harley LeRoy Sensemann,
A.B.


Eugene Burton Steele, A.B.,
Albion College
Lyman Bruce Stewart,
A.B., Olivet College
Emma Martha Swigart,
Ph.B., Alhna Colloge
Lefa Hazel Taylor, A.B.,
4lbion College
John Frederick Thomas,
B.L.
John Philip Thomas, A.B.
Elizabeth Fox Toof, A.B.,
Vassar College
Frances Cleveland Tubbs,
A.BR
Faith Mabel Welton, A.B.,
Alima College
Kenneth   Neville  Westerman, A.B.
Ruth Vee Wheelock, A.B.
Arthur Stevenson White,
Ph.B., Grove City College; LL.B.


CIVIL gNGINEER
Harry Clifford McClure, B.S. (C.E.) University of Kansas,
C.E., ibid
Thesis-The Valuation of Public Utilities with Special
Reference to Depreciation of Structural Properties.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Ernest Franklin Barker, B.S., University of Rochester, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Physics.
Dissertation-Selective Radiation from Osmium Filaments.
William Howard Batson, A.B., 4Antioch College
Department of Specialization-Psychology.
Dissertation-Acquisition of Skill.
Glenn Danford Bradley, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-History.
Dissertation-A History of the Sante Fe Railroad to
the Year 1887.
Henry Ward Church, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-German.
Dissertation-The Compound Past Tenses, Active and
Passive, in Middle High German as presented by Heinrich von Veldeke, Gottfried von Strassburg, and Wolfram von Eschenbach.




JUNE MEETING, 1915


201


George Herbert Coons, A.B., University of Illinois, A.M.,
University of Nebraska.
Department of Specialization Botany.
Dissertation-A Study of the Factors Involved in the
Growth and Pycnidia Formation of Plenodromus Fusco-maculans.
Floyd Carlton Dockeray, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Psychology.
Dissertation-The Effects of Physical Fatigue upon
Mental Efficiency.
Alfred Lynn Ferguson, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation-Activity  and  Concentration, Transport
Numbers and Boundary Potential.
Chester Hume Forsyth, A.B., Butler College, A.M., Unziversity of Illilois.
Department of Specialization-Mathematics.
Dissertation-Vital and Monetary Losses in the United
States Due to Preventable Deaths.
Laurence Hadley, B.S., Earlham College, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Astronomy.
Dissertation-A Study of a Ursae Majoris.
Ralston Hayden, B.S., Kno.v College, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Political Science.
Dissertation-The Treaty-Making Powers of the United
States, 1789-1817.
William Vernor Hoyt, A.B., Olivet College, A.M., ibid.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation-The Constitution of the Nitro k Carbopyrrolic Acids.
Walter Fred Hunt, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Mineralogy.
Dissertation-The Origin of the Sulphur Deposits of
Sicily.
Carlton Volney Kent, B.S., University of Iowa, M.S., ibid.
Department of Specialization-Physics.
Dissertation The Optical Constants of Liquid Alloys.




202


JUNE MEETING, I915


Sidney Fiske Kimball, A.B., Harvard University, M.Arch.,
ibid.
Department of Specialization-Architecture.
Dissertation-Thomas Jefferson and the First Monument of the Classical Revival in America.
Adrian John Pieters, B.S.
Department of Specialization-Botany.
Dissertation-The Relation between Vegetative Vigor
and Reproduction in some Saprolegniaceae.
Daniel Leslie Rich, A.B., Waynesburg College, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Physics.
Dissertation-Oscillatory Spark Discharges between
Unlike Metals.
Will Carl Rufus, A.B., Albion College, A.M., ibid.
Department of Specialization-Astronomy.
Dissertation-The Spectra of Stars belonging to Class
R of the Draper Classification.
Alice Dorothea Snyder, A.B., TVassar College, A.M., ibid.
Department of Specialization Rhetoric.
Dissertation-The Critical Principle of the Reconciliation of Opposites as employed by Coleridge.
Frederick Burkhart Wahr, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-German.
Dissertation-Emerson and Goethe.
Cecil Heyward Williams, A.B.
Department of Specialization-German.
Dissertation-Friedrich Spielhagen's Relation to Ferdinand Lassalle.
Regent Clements took his seat.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, degrees were
conferred as follows:BACHHELOR OF LIAWS
Thomas Ernest Agee             Charles William  Burton
Robert Mintie Alton            Elmer Edwin Carlson
Claude Annan                   John Gottfrid Cedergren,
William James Aplington          A.B., Gustavus Adolphus
Harry David Boardman             College
Henry Charles Bogle            Lewis Gustavus Christman,
Budd B. Boose                    A.B., Olivet College
Willard  Ingham   Bower-       Fenn Hesden Cooney, B.S.
man                             (C.E.), Iozwa State ColJoseph Francis Boyle             lege
Wilbur Devere Bryant           Clark Claire Coulter




JUNE MEETING, 1915


203


Joseph Cripe
Albert Warren Dann, A.B.,
University of Nebraska
Charles Davidson
Paul Deppen Doherty
Toliver Mac Downing
Thomas James Doyle, A.B.
Charles Walker Ferguson
Paul Milford Godehn
Edward Leon Gove
Frederick Edward Greer
Morley Griswold, A.B.
Levi Marion Hall
Victor Hugo Hampton
Harold Wilbur Haviland
Leslie Roberts Himes
Claude Hollis Hogan
Frank Joseph Jones
Henry Warren Jones
William George Kerr, A.B.
Theodore George King
Leslie Henry Kranz
William  O'Neill Kronner
Louis Frank Labarere,
L.L.B., University of
Southern California
Benjamin Simon Leiserwitz
Arthur Richard Lewis, A.B.
Hugh Edward Lillie
Leslie Clarence McClelland
George Frederick McGraw
Joel Thomas McIntyre
Thomas Willard McIntyre
Jay Frederick McMullen,
A.B., Bethany College


Russell Arthur McNair,
A.B.
Solomon Waldheimer Marx
Henry Harrison Mead
Vilroy Cole Miller, B.L.,
Princeton University
Karl John Mohr, A.B.
Henry William Muller, A.B.
Harry George Neff, A.B.,
HWabash College
Roswell B. O'Harra
Harry Pell
James Arthur Phelps
Henry Hueitt Roberts
Will Richard Roberts
Harry Earle Russell, A.B.
Edward Herbert Saier, A.B.
Carl Gustave Schoeffel,
A.B.
Harold Reginald Schradzki
Finley Dornan Scott, A.B.
Penlnsylvania State College
William Melville Strachan,
A.B.
James Reginald Thomas
James Guerber Tucker, Jr.
Ward Irby Waller
Eugene Stilson Wells
William  Walter WVheatley,
A.B.
Edward Morris Whitlock
Otto Giles Wismer, A.B.


JURIS DOCTOR


Leland Stanford Bisbee,
A.B.
William Franklin Black,
A.B.
Marcy Kent Brown, Jr.,
A.B.. University of AMissouri
Selden Stratton Dickinson,
A.B.
Arend Van der Veen Dubee,
A.B.
Carroll Barse Haff, A.B.
John Valentine Hammersmith, A.B.
Herbert Hollis Harshman,
A.B.
Charles Joseph Hilkey, A.B.,


College of Emporia, A.M.,
University  of  Kansas,
Ph.D., Columbia University
Frederick Johnston Kennedy, A.B.
Max Paul Anton Kuhr,
A.B.
Allen Martin Reed, A.B.
Saverio Rosato, A.B.
Henry Rottschaefer, A.B.,
Hope College
Harry Seger Slifer, A.B.,
Wesleyan University,
A.M.
Edwin Rice Thurston, A.B.




204


JUNE MEETING, 1915


MIASTER OF LAWS
Serafin Patrick Hilado, LL.B., University of the Philippines.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING


Hung Tang Low
Walter Vancleve Marshall
Raymond Chester Perkins
Charles Gleason Thomas


Francis Fredrick Trierweiler
Herman John Trum, Jr.


BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURE


Harold Baker Abbott
Chandler Carroll Cohagen
Clair William Ditchy, A.B.


Harold Melvin Edloff
Samuel Loder Holmes, Jr.
John Brownlee Jewell


BACHE,OR OF MARINE ENGINEERING


Lawrence C. Campbell
Louis Edgar Cattell
Chidley Davis Mears
Reuben Benjamin Sleight


Chien Hsun Sung, A.B.,
Peking University
Mayson White Torbet
Benjamin Blanchard Wood


BACHELOR OF CTIEMICAL ENGINEERING


Willard Newton Cowing
Jesse McKinley Davidson
Edward John DePree
Victor Earl Fishburn
Edwin Chester Foltz
Franklin Edwin Ford, A.B.,
Hillsdale College
Emil Karl Goettel
Walter Edwin Jominy
Chester Clare Kennedy
Raymond Albert Kundinger
George Johnson Kysor


Henry Langendorf
Edward Jacob Lewis
Harry E. Martin
John Thomas Naylon
Howard Jesse Rupright
Almond Graves Sanders
Solomon Shappirio
Bert Arnold Standerline
Harold Edmonston Wheeler
Harold Franklin Whittaker
Clarence Buell Worth
Edward Robert Young, Jr.


BACHELOR OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING


Ivan Norman Cuthbert
Leslie Edward Delf
Ralph Cedric Glasier
Clark Riggs Greene
Russell Branch Guilbault
John Frank Harning
Charles William Howell
George Henry Howell
Benjamin Louis Koppin
Gordon Brown McCabe
Charles William Moore


Clarence Arthur Mote
Claude Elmer Mowrer
Whiting John Ryan
George Lawrence Sewell
Samuel Paul Shackleton
Clement Caleb Steck
Millard Halsey Toncray
LeRoy Raymond Wagner
William Carl Weilbacher
Frank Ralph Zumbro




JUNE MEETING, 1915


205


BACHELOR OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING


Wyeth Allen
Joseph Kramer Ambruster
Charles Pierce Barton, Jr.
David Moses Bavly
Kenneth Stuart Baxter
Myron Louis Begeman
Adolf Gustaf Bergstrom
Laurence Ellis Blood
Demosthenes   Constantine
Bondjukoglou, A.B.
Roberts College
Burton Charles Budd
Everest William Buell
Thomas Hubbard Bushnell,
Jr.
Walter Wilson Calkins
George August Chatel
Victor McKnight Chatfield
Clarence Adelbert Cheney
Bert A. Clark
Sabin Crocker
Leo Thornton Daggy
Watson Richard DeGowin
Lloyd Hamilton Donnell
Donald Goodwin Ellis
Walter Thirlmore Emmons
Robert Stanley Fead
Carl Hjalmar Flink
Chung Chio Fu
Leo Bernard Gizewski
Oliver Wendell Hall
Joseph Allen Harlan
Lewis Wellington Heller
George Bernard Helmrich
Oliver Frank Heyden
Harold Leo Heyser
Anzelm Horbaszewski
Sih Ung Huang, A.B.,
St. John's University,
Shanghai


Ralph Clifton Huston
Hugo Frederick Hutzel
Carl V. Johnson
Waldemar Ogden Johnson
William Durand Johnston
Edward Joseph Kruszka
Karl Herman Kugel
Howard Adam Lang
Walter Edwin Lay
John LeValley
Ray Charles McAllister
Charles Hibbs McClellan
Joaquin Ramirez Masferrer
Edwin George Metcalf
Robert Levens Metcalf
Wayne William Milham
Earl B. Miller
Russell Hill Mills
Henry Spaulding Parsons
George John Pezold
Harold Glenn Raesley
Clarence Dalman Rich
T. D. Roach
Robert Domitio Schindler
George Harold Sisler
Merwin Noble Smalley
Edward John Smith
Westcott Timpson Smith
Herbert Reuben Spencer
Henry Dean Stecher
Walter Harvey Stewart
David Davis Stovel
Peter Tazelaar
Rhinehart Florian Thalner
Henry Martin Thomas
Albert Jay Townsend
Charles Franklin Tuttle
Wallace Wells Tuttle
Harold Edward Waldron


BACHELOR OF CIVIL ENGINEERING


Maynard D. Bailey
Herbert Hall Bartlett
John Henry Bateman
Herbert Bathmann
Frederick Oscar Bishop
Herbert Louis Bockstahler
Edwin McNeil Brady
William Wallace Candler
Willard Marion Cannan
Te Fen Chen
Donald Moore Cook


George Hobart Crase
James Bell Cress, as of the
class of I9I.
Ford Cornelius Densmore
Harry Spurgeon Donald
Gilbert Denison Douglas
DeWitt A. Dudley
Lewis Watson Edison
Abram Fisher
Norman St. John Flook
Bert Clinton Freeman




206


JUNE MEETING, 1915


Alice Charlotte Goff
Albert Edward Goodwin
Chester Arwin Gorham
William Holland Hall, A.B.,
Trinity College
Carroll Leslie Hoyt
Albert Harold Kaufman
Karl Fairbanks Keeler
Cyril Frederick Kleyn
John Windsor Lovell
Guilbert Carlyle McCamman
Angus Vaughan Mclver
Edmon Perrin McQueen
Vung Tsoong Maw
Harry Arthur Miles
Hermann Gundert Mueller
George Fernand Prussing
Hazel Irene Quick


Allan Townshend Ricketts
Lawrence Martin Saunders
Carl Waldemar Smedberg
Clarendon Waite Smith
Herschel C. Smith, A.B.
Valentine Fisher Spring,
B.E..
Richard Henry Steketee
Lyon Frank Terry
George Eddison Thiel
John Anderson Baush
Tompkins, Jr.
Robert Farquar Watt
Alvin Henry Weber
Paul Weinlander
Carol Lewis Williams
Qua-Ling Young, A.B.,
St. John's University,
Shanghai


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ENGINEERING)
Robert Osborn VanHorn
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING)


William Henry Code
as of the class of 1892
Roy Henry Parsons
as of the class of 1897


Mark Wayland Tenny
as of the class of 1895


A communication was received from Mr. Ray E. Hall, a
research worker in wireless telegraphy, asking permission
to use the wireless laboratory in the Engineering Building
for his experiments during the summer.     On motion of
Regent Hubbard, this request was referred, with authority,
to the President, Dean Cooley, and Professor George;W.
Patterson.
The Secretary read the following report for the Executive Committee which, on motion of Regent Hubbard, was
approved and ordered placed on record.
To the Honorable Board of Regents,
University of Michigan.
GNTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee, to whom was referred the
matter of the salary of and an assistant to Dr. Elsie S. Pratt
(see p. 179), beg leave to report that after having considered the situation carefully, they recommend that Dr.




JUNE MEETING, 1915


207


Pratt's salary be fixed at $350o.oo and that she be allowed
an assistant to receive, for the time such assistant serves,
a salary equal in amount to that paid to the assistant to Dr.
Cummings, it being understood, however, that such assistant
will not probably be employed for more than half time and
in any event that the amount of time employed shall not be
such as to make the entire salary exceed $I,ooo.oo per
annum. This recommendation is made, however, upon
condition that the funds of the Health Service warrant the
additional expenditure.
In regard to a special course for scout masters, referred to your Committee (see p. I69), we report that in
our judgment it is not expedient at the present time to
authorize such a course. The members of the Committee
feel, however, that considerable work is given that would
be useful for a person having in view the calling of a scout
master and that the Deans of the Departments, in which
such work is given, be advised to arrange individual courses
for such persons as may apply.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAT,
WVATAlER H. SAW\\YER
Ann Arbor, Mich., June 22, I915
The Secretary read the following additional report of
the Executive Committee, which was on motion of Regent
Hubbard received for record.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Acting under authority given at the 'March and April
meetings (see pages 129 and I50), and within the appropriations made at those meetings, your undersigned Committee have purchased the following property at $5100,
from Ernestine and Jane Jacobus, taking a warranty deed
after approval of the deed and abstract by Cavanaugh &
Burke:
"Lots number five (5); sixteen (I6), six (6), and
fifteen (I5), block three (3), north, range fifteen (I5) east
according 'to the recorded plat of Chester Ingalls' Addition
to the City of Ann Arbor excepting therefrom the east
three (3) rods in width of said lots six (6) and fifteen
(15) now owned by the said The Regents of the University of Michigan."




208


JUNE MEETING, 1915


Commission of $Ioo on this sale was paid to M/r. E. D.
W\arner. It was informally agreed as part of the terms of
the purchase that the Jacobus families might continue to
occupy the two houses, without rent, until October I, or
approximately that date.
THIE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
June Io, I915
On motion of Regent Beal, the following students
nominated by the Directors of the Athletic Association as
student members of the Board in Control of Athletics for
the ensuing year, were approved by the Regents:F. Gurnee Millard          Adna R. Johnson
Frederick Gould
On motion of Regent Clements, the Secretary was
authorized to place fire insurance as follows:-On the
Science Building, $75,ooo; on the Newberry Residence,
$25,000o; on furniture in the Newberry Residence, $Io,ooo;
on the Martha Cook Building, $50,000.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, payment of various hospital bills aggregating the following sums was authorized
out of the funds mentioned:-From the Patients' Deposits
Interest Fund, $280.86; from the Allopathic Hospital Free
Bed Fund, $207.87; from the Treadwell Free Bed Fund,
$34.20; from the Palmer Free Bed Fund, $391.04; from the
Indigent Patients' Fund, $1,348.18.
The Secretary presented for record the order of Circuit
Judge E. D. Kinne, sustaining the demurrer of the Regents
in the case of Mary Bancroft rs. the Regents of the University of Michigan and Genevieve Reed. The Secretary
also presented the bill of Cavanaugh & Burke for $o05 for
court services in this case. On motion of Regent Bulkley,
the payment of this bill was directed.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, Dr. O. C. Marckwardt
was formally appointed as Instructor in the course for removal of entrance conditions in English, with compensation
of $i80. The work has actually been completed.




JUNE MEETING, I9i5


209'


On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. W. W. Spangler was
appointed as Instructor in the Waterman Gymnasium, vice
Mr. W. M. White, who was unable to accept the appointment.
A communication was received from Mrs. W. H. Plummer relative to the possible purchase of the lot owned by
Mrs. Plummer on Volland Street in Ann Arbor. No action
was taken on this communication.
The Board formally approved the employment of Miss
Alice Evans and Miss Marion Wood at $50 each for giving
the work in the past year required under the arrangement
with the University School of Music (see June Proceedings,
I9T.4, page 1017). The Regents authorized the continuance
of the arrangement with the School of Music for the future,
if the latter organization so desires. Under this plan, the
School of Music guarantees fifty students annually and a fee
of $5 each, of which $i goes to the physical examiner $2 to
the instructor, and $2 to the University's general fund.
A communication from Professor Aubrey Tealdi, suggesting changes in his Department, was laid upon the table.
On motion of Regent Beal, the use of Hill Auditorium
was granted to the Ann Arbor branch of Collegiate Alumnae
for a lecture, on a non-political subject, to be given October
I5, by Ex-President Theodore Roosevelt.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board confirmed for
the ensuing year as alumni members of the' Board in Control of Athletics, the present incumbents, Judge James 0.
Murfin, of Detroit, Mr. James L. Duffy, of Bay City, and
Mr. John D. Hibbard, of Chicago.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was authorized to sell the discarded
machinery from the old Power Plant.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Secretary was authorized to sell certain worn-out dental chairs, or otherwise to
dispose of such chairs if a sale could not be made.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Martin Feinstein was
appointed Instructor in Rhetoric in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for the year 19I5-1916, with the
salary of $iooo.
On motion of Regent Beal, Miss Clara B. Dunn, Assistant in Rhetoric, was given leave of absence from the begin



210


JUNE MEETING, I915


ning of the first semester of I915-I916 until December 6,
without salary, and authority was given to employ a substitute at a compensation not to exceed the salary originally
appropriated for Miss Dunn during that period.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
A communication from Professor Campbell, Director of
the Chemical Laboratory, relative to laboratory fees payable under certain cases in Chemical Engineering was referred for report to the committee appointed during the
morning, via., the President, Regent Bulkley, and Regent
Beal.
A communication was received from Professor Whitney
suggesting the publication by the University of Professor
C. 0. Davis's paper entitled "The Content and Administration of the Six-Three-Three Plan of High Schools." On
motion of Regent Beal, this communication was laid on the
table and the Secretary was instructed to get data as to number of copies required and cost, and to report at the succeeding meeting.
On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. Richard M. Holman was
appointed Instructor in Botany at the salary of $Iooo. This
action was later reconsidered, on motion of Regent Beal,
and the question of appointment to this position was referred to the Literature, Science, and Arts Committee, with
power.
The resignations of Mr. Harold F. French and Mr.
Harold R. Lloyd, as Instructors in Engineering Mechanics,
were received from Dean Cooley and were accepted.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Mr. Alfred L. Nelson
was appointed as Instructor in Mathematics in the Colleges
of Engineering and Architecture for the year I915-I916, at
the salary of $I200.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, there was added to the
title of Mr. Earl V. Moore the title, "University Organist."
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
the Regents appropriated the sum of $300 to create a special
Fellowship in Naval Architecture. Mr. Ingebrikt Volden
was appointed to this Fellowship.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the sum of $ioo was set
aside to defray the expense of clerical assistance connected




JUNE MEETING, 19:15


211


with the editorial work of the Humanistic Series during
I915-I916.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved the
action of the President in excusing the following faculty
members from attendance at Commencement: Messrs. A.
R. Crittenden, Walter R. Parker, George G. Wright, S. F.
Gingerich, A. D. DeFoe, Walter W. Tupper, Jesse S.
Reeves, Edward L. Adams, W. L. Miggett, J. C. Palmer,
C. O. Carey, Hugh Brodie, A. R. Bailey, H. L. Abbott, and
Miss Alice L. Hunt.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture, the following students were excused from attendance at the Commencement exercises:J. B. Cress                 G. A. Chatel
D. A. Dudley                L. T. Daggy
R. H. Parsons               L. H. Donnell
(. F. Prussing              H. L. Heyser
R. O. Van Horn              A. Horbaszewski
M. W. Tenny                 H. F. Hutzel
R. B. Guilbault             J. Masferrer
G. L. Sewell               W\. W. Milham
M. W. Torbet                H. T. Low
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Mr. Louis A. Hopkins,
Instructor in Mathematics, was appointed for one year as
Secretary of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture,
vice Professor James P. Bird, resigned. The title of Mrs.
Camilla B. Green was changed from that of Clerk to the
Secretary of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture
to that of Assistant Secretary of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
The President transmitted the following letter, which,
on motion of Regent Beal, was received for printing:DEAR SIR:At one of the sessions of the short-term institute given
under the direction of the University of Michigan and the
State Superintendent of Public Instruction, I was authorized to write you in the name of the Superintendents and
Principals of Michigan in attendance upon this Institute,
expressing our great appreciation at the unusual opportunity which was afforded us to receive information concerning
the most important and progressive investigations along




212


JUNE MEETING, 1915


educational lines peculiarly pertaining to the work of oar
profession.  It was the unanimous opinion of those in
attendance that great good had been accomplished and that
it would be highly desirable if such institutes could be held
each year. The enthusiasm with which this institute was
received, assured, I think, a greatly increased attendance
next year.
In addition to expressing the feeling of those in attendance, I wish to add my personal hearty commendation to
those who originated and were a'ble to carry out this plan.
The Superintendents and Principals of the State are looking
forward with eager anticipation to the announcement of
the plans for the next short-term institute.
Very truly yours
C. E. CHIADSIY
Detroit, Michigan, June I, I915  Superintendent
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board declined to authorize a refund of the tuition presumably to be paid next year
by William R. Vis.
On motion of Regent Beal, Associate Professor Hugo
Paul Thieme was promoted to a Professorship with the
salary of $2500, beginning with the year I915-I916.
On motion of Regent Beal, following notice from    Professors Bigelow  and Campbell that Mr. L. T. Anderegg
could not accept the appointment of Acting Instructor in
General and' Physical Chemistry at the salary of $800,
Alfred L. Ferguson was. appointed as Instructor in General and Physical Chemistry for the year I915-I916 at the
salary of $Iooo.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, certificates of
graduation from the University Hospital Training School
for Nurses were granted to the following:Minnie Smith                    Marie E. Fouchard
Elizabeth Vandertill           SMabel Bush
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following appointments made by the Secretary to positions provided for in
the budget were approved:Claude Heacock, Chief Clerk in the Purchasing Departmen, from ~May 13, 1915, with salary at the rate of
$1200 per year, twelve months' basis.




JUNE MEETING, 1915                         2I3
Albert Marsh, Laboratory Attendant in the Department of
Anatomy, from May I, 1915, with salary at the rate of
$5oo per year, twelve months' basis.
A. H. Weber, Student Assistant in Engineering Mechanics,
vice H. C. Smith, resigned, for the balance of the
second semester from April Io, 1915, with salary at the
rate of $Io per month.
F. E. Loudy, Student Assistant in Engineering Mechanics,
vice H. C. Smith, resigned, for the balance of the
second semester from April Io, 1915, with salary at the
rate of $Io per month.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appointments and changes in the staff of the Summer Session of
I915, all being within the budget as adopted in December,
19I4, were made:COLIEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Latin
Instructor W. V. McCay, vice Assistant Prof.
A. R. Crittenden, withdrawn, 96 hrs........$300.00
Chemistiry
Assistant Joseph  S. Richtig....................  40.00
Assistant Orrin E. Madison................... 40.o0
Assistant R. D. Smith........................   40.00
Assistant T. K. Hutson....................... 40.00
Assistant L. J. Gurevich...................... 40.00
Assistant H. F. Wihittaker................... 40.00
Assistant Robert L. Perkins...................  40.00
Assistant William V. Sternberger.............. 40.00
Geology
Assistant H. D. Grosse, vice S. W. Hockett,
withdrawn...............................  50.oo
Botanly
Assistant  E. B. Mains........................  75.oo
Assistant J. P. Romein....................... 40.00
Assistant C. H. Ross......................... 40.00
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Surveying
Assistant  A.  C.  Simons.......................$150.oo
LIBRARY MET'HODS
Miss Marian P. Greene, Lecturer on Children's Work 5o.o0




214


JUNE MEETING, 1915


EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Assistant  Jay  H.  Schmidt..........................  20.00
ADMINISTRATION
Miss Fredericka B. Gillette, Assistant in General
Library......................................  oo. o0
GENERAL EXPENSE
Mr. F. A. Jeffers, Special Lecturer...............  50.00
Mr. G. Ritz, Lecture Attendant.................... 35.oo
On motion of Regent Beal, the salary of Mr. Walter
Tupper as Instructor in Botany was changed from $Iooo to
$1200 for the year I915-I916.
On motion of Regent Beal, the High School Inspection
budget for 1914-1915 was increased by $225 to cover additional traveling expenses to the amount of $200 and additional clerical help to the amount of $25.
Further, on motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $50 was
transferred from the non-resident lecture fund of the Department of Education to the current expense fund to be
used for printing a special announcement for the Department
of Education.
A communication from Dean Cooley on the subject of
additional quarters for the work in Highway Engineering
was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for a
report at the July meeting.
Dean Cooley communicated to the Board the following
gifts received by the College of Engineering:I. 500 feet of 125-pair, No. 20 gauge cable, for use in
the telephone laboratory. This is a valuable piece of apparatus. Presented by the Michigan State Telephone Company, Detroit, Michigan. (Mr. A. von Schlegell, General
Manager).
2. Report on the Transit Development for the City of
Philadelphia, two volumes. Presented by Mr. A. Merritt
Taylor, Director of the Department of City Transit of the
City of Philadelphia, 754 The Bourse.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, these gifts were received
and the Secretary was instructed to communicate the thanks
of the Regents to the donors.




JUNE MEETING, 1915


215


The report of the Extension Service for I914-I9I5 was
received from the Director, Associate Professor Henderson.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, this report was received and
ordered filed.
The following communication from       the Dean, of the
Graduate School was received and on motion of Regent
Hanchett, the Board approved the extension of the privilege
of registering in the Graduate School as part-time students,
as requested, to practicing engineers and physicians.
Your Honorable Board, at its meeting in June, 1912 (see
proceedings, page 465), adopted a resolution fixing the fee
for part-time students at ten dollars ($Io). According to
this resolution the benefit is extended only to teachers in
public, parochial, or private schools. Upon the recommendation of Dean Cooley, and the Heads of the various Engineering departments, the Executive Board of the Graduate
School decided to ask your Honorable Board to extend the
privilege of registering as part-time students to practicing
engineers and physicians, who might register in the Graduate School for work not exceeding five hours of credit,
each semester. There are in neighboring cities, especially
in Detroit and Toledo, a number of professional men who
would gladly take advantage of such an opportunity; in
fact two specific cases have been brought to my knowledge.
It is the opinion of the Executive Board of the Graduate
School that the benefits of university instruction might
well be extended to the engineers and physicians who wish
to continue their professional education beyond the undergraduate degree 'but who cannot return for regular work to
the University.
On recommendation of the Executive Board of the
Graduate School, Fellows were appointed as follows:Gas Engineering Fellowships, $400 each: John Thomas
Naylon, Bert Arnold:Standerline
Acme White Lead & Color Works Fellowship, $5oo: Ralph
Edward Christman, B.Ch.E.
Paper Manufacture Fellowship, $500: Franklin Edwin
Ford, A.B., Hillsdale College
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of




216


JUNE MEETING, 1915


LL.B. was conferred upon John Granville Woolley, as of the
Class of I873.
Professor Hussey appeared before the Regents and
stated the circumstances under which he would like leave of
absence for further astronomical work at the LaPlata
Observatory. On motion of Regent Beal, Professor Hussey
was given in accordance with his request leave of absence
for the first semester of the University year i9I5-I916, with
salary, with the understanding that he would supply a satisfactory substitute at his own expense.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. H. J. Colliau was appointed as Designer and Instrument Maker at the Observatory, at the salary of $I80o per year, beginning July I, 1915.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Executive Committee was given authority to arrange a plan under which
the work in the office of the Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts might be carried on until the
next meeting of the Regents.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to July 22, at IO A. M.
S H IRLVEY W. SM ITH, Secretary.




JUNE MEETING, 19I5                      217
APPENDIX A
H-ONORARY DEGREES
Vled May 21 (see page 170) and conferred at
Commencement, June 24
MASTER OF ARTS
1)OCTOR DAVID MAr\HON CATTELL, of the College of
Dentistry, University of Tennessee. Distinguished as an
effective teacher of Operative Dentistry and as an investigator and writer in the field of Dental Anatomy and Dental
Therapeutics.
GEORGE POMEROY GOODALE, of Detroit, Michigan. Distinguished as an editor and as a dramatic critic of the
highest order. His knowledge of his chosen field is not
exceeded by that of any other man.
DOCTOR ARTHUR FERDINAND FISCHER, of Hancock,
Michigan. A graduate of the University, Medical School,
class of I89o. For his services in municipal and state health
work, especially for his intelligent participation in the
crusade against tuberculosis, he has received distinguished
recognition.
DOCTOR ROLAND EDWARD SKEEL, of Cleveland, Ohio. A
graduate of the University, Medical School, class of 1890.
An educator in the field of medicine, a contributor of note
to medical literature, and a surgeon of recognized ability.
WILLIAM  LEE JENKS, of Port Huron, Michigan.    A
graduate of the University, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, class of I878. A well known member of the
Michigan Bar and President of the Michigan Historical
Commission. Though busily engaged in the practice of the
law, he has found the time to collect a variety of valuable
material bearing upon the history of the Northwest and
particularly upon the history of the State of Michigan.
DEAN RAI,PH STILLMAN GARWOOD. A graduate of the
University, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
class of I892. Educator, organizer, and administrator of
acknowledged ability, for several years General Superintendent of the Department of Education, Porto Rico, now
Dean of the College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts,
University of Porto Rico.




2 r8              JUNE MEETING, I915
II
MASTER OF ENGINEERING
WILL:IAM   BERNARD  SEARS, of Saginaw, Michigan
Pioneer railroad builder in the United States. He came to
Michigan from Virginia as Chief Engineer of the Flint and
Cass River Railroad in I859, when railroads were built
through the wilderness. Trained in the school of experience,
a man of the highest ideals as an engineer and citizen.
III
DOCTOR OF ENGIN.EERING
JOHN HENRY DARLING, of Duluth, Minnesota. A graduate of the University, College of Engineering, class of
1873. For forty years an engineer in the service of the
United States government, distinguished for his achievements in the design and construction of harbor works on
the Great Lakes. A worthy son of the University.
LYMAN EDGAR COOLEY, of Chicago, Illinois. A graduate
of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in the class of 1874.
One of the most prominent of American engineers. Distinguished among other things for his great achievements
in the development of the public water-ways of the country.
The design and construction of the Chicago drainage canal
is only one of the important undertakings which have proved
successful because of his great professional ability and
sound business judgment.
IV
DOCTOR OF LAWS
HONORABLE ALEXIS CASWELL ANGEI,L, of Detroit, Michigan. A graduate of the University, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, class of 1878, and the Law School,
class of I88o. Distinguished as a teacher of the law, in
which capacity he served the University for several years,
as a legal practitioner of large and varied experience and
for judicial services of a high order upon the Federal
Bench.
PROFESSOR GEORGE HEMPL. A graduate of the University and for several years a member of the Faculty, of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, now Professor of English Philology and General Linguistics in
Stanford University, California, a scholar of international
reputation.  Distinguished particularly for his originality
and analytic power and for discoveries of far-reaching im



JUNE MEETING,_ 195                      219
portance in the fields of archaeology and philological research.
PROFESSOR PAUL SHORTY, of the University of Chicago.,Scholar, teacher, writer, lecturer. A man of the highest
ideals in education, whose influence has been wide and
stimulating in the advancement of literary studies and in
the promotion of sound learning.
PRESIDENT WII,LAM OXLEY THOMPSON, of the Ohio
State University. An educator of sterling worth and large
and varied experience. His vigorous and wise administration of the affairs of the University over which he presides,
has brought to him distinguished and merited recognition.
In honoring him, Michigan honors herself.




JULY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1
ANN ARBOR, JULY 22, 1915.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent
Gore. Absent, Regent Hanchett and Regent Sawyer, who
later took their seats, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the minutes of the meeting of June 22 were approved as submitted to the members
in proof with a typographical change on page 208. Later
in the day, (see page 236), a further correction was made in
the minutes of the meeting of June 22, on page 200.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the University Library announce to the
medical profession of the State that the Library will serve
the profession by furnishing upon request, bibliographies
and transcriptions of articles upon medical subjects, at the
cost to the Library for such service.
A communication was received from Judge C. B. Grant,
as chairman of the Alumni Memorial Hall Committee, relative to the provision of magazines for the reading room of
the Alumni Memorial Hall (see also page I67). On motion
of Regent Gore, this matter was left with the Budget Committee for consideration and report at the next meeting.
Regent Beal reported that the purchase of the White
Estate wood-land which a committee had been authorized
to make (see pages 171 and 182) had been practically completed. On motion of Regent Sawyer a sum of not to exceed $9,800 was added to the budget for this purchase.
Regent Hanchett took his seat.




222


JULY, ME ETING, I9i5


On motion of Regent Bulkley the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the salary paid by the University to
Philip G. Bartelme, Director of Outdoor Athletics, be fixed
at $I8oo for the present University year.
The following partial report was made:To the President and Honorable Board of Regents:The committee appointed to consider and recommend
the assignment to new occupants of the space that will be
vacated by the departments which will move into the new
Science Building begs leave to make the following partial
report:It is recommended that the basement of the Economics
Building be remodeled for the use of the Economics Department. The plan involves moving the Accounting Laboratory
into the east basement, fitting up the present accounting
laboratory for a larger library and reading room, and changing the west basement into class rooms.
It is further recommended that a part of the basement
of Tappan Hall be given to the Education Department, a
part be assigned to the Department of Physics for research
rooms, and the class room be held in reserve. The committee is not yet prepared to report in regard to the quarters in
the South Wing.
The estimated cost of the changes so far suggested is
given in the accompanying letter from Superintendent
Marks.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. EvI:INGER
K. E. GUTHE
JOHN F. SHEPARD
July 22, I915.
On motion of Regent Clements, the report of the committee was approved and the amount estimated by Superintendent MAarks as necessary for carrying out the recommendations of the committee, namely, $I513.50, was. appropriated from the general fund.




JULY MEETING, 1915


223


On motion of Regent Clements the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Buildings and Grounds Comlmittee
be authorized to have the South Wing of University Hall
remodeled under the direction of Superintendent Marks,
at as low cost as necessities may require, for the use of
departments to be assigned thereto.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board continued the
committee, consisting of Dean Effinger, Dean Guthe, and
Professor Shepard, to report to the Buildings and Grounds
Committee of the Regents recommendations for the assignment of the remaining space to be vacated by the departments which are to move into the new Science Building, the
Buildings and Grounds Committee to have power to act
upon all these questions.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:45 P. M. Present, the
President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal; Regent Hubbard,
Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Hanchett.
Absent, Regent Gore and Regent Sawyer, who later took
their seats, and Superintendent Keeler.
A communication was received from the Faculty Library
Committee expressing the view that the Library collection
of newspapers should be limited to the files of (i) certain
great newspapers and (2) Michigan newspapers. No action
was taken on this communication.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, respecting a question
shown on page 189 as referred to him, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That it is the sense of the Regents that no
exception should be made to required payment of laboratory
fees, in case of holders of the so-called Gas Engineering
Fellowships or any other commercial fellowships.
Dean Bates appeared as representative of the Michigan
Union, and Professor Huber as representative of the Uni



224


JULY MEETING, 1915


versity Y. M. C. A., and suggested that permission should
be given by the Regents to the Y. M. C. A. to extend its
campaign for funds from August I, the date originally
fixed, to August 20. On motion of Regent Bulkley, the
Board approved this extension.
The President reported that the committee to which the
question was referred (see page 206) had granted the request of Mr. Ray E. Hall and his associates for use of the
wireless laboratory during the summer, under proper restrictions.
The Secretary reported that it was desired by the Department of Education to print I,o0o copies of the paper by
Professor C. 0. Davis (see page 2IO), and that the cost of
such printing would be about $60. On motion of Regent
Hubbard the Board set aside the sum      of $6o for this
purpose.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board appointed Dr.
Richard M. Holman as Instructor in Botany for the University year I915-I916, at the salary of $i,0oo  as provided
in the budget (see also page 210).
On motion of Regent Clements, referring to a question
referred to him June 22 (see page 214), the following resolution was adopted by a call vote, Regent Hubbard voting
"No" -
Resolved, That the Psychology Laboratorv building be
turned over to the College of Engineering for such uses
as it desires to make of the building as a highway laboratory, all expenses of moving and repairing the building to be
borne by the College of Engineering.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the following resolution
was adopted by a call vote,Regent Clements voting, "No":Resolved, That the sum of $I,3oo be set aside from the
general fund for the expense of moving the old Psychology
Laboratory building and putting it in condition for use
as a highway engineering laboratory in accordance with the
statement made by Superintendent Marks, and filed at the
Regents' meeting of June 22, all the responsibility for the
work of moving and repairing to be in the hands of Professor H, E. Riggs,




JULY MEETING, 1915


225


On motion of Regent Clements the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the Buildings and Grounds Department
be instructed to proceed with the work of building the first
unit of the greenhouse at the Botanical Garden on Packard
Street with the reservation that expenditures are not to be
made in any case beyond the sum of $I5,0oo, the amount to
be expended within that limit to be at the discretion of the
Buildings and Grounds Committee.
(See pages I 4, 16, and I70).
Regent Gore and Regent Sawyer took their seats.
Regent Clements asked the approval of the Regents for
the plan of a driveway to the Science Building and North
Wing of University Hall, the cost of such driveway to be
met out of funds now appropriated for the Buildings and
Grounds Department. This approval was granted.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board set aside the
sum of $20ooo  for grading about the Science Building and for
construction of the first section of the mall between the
Science Building and the Chemical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Clements the sum of $500 was
added to the Power Plant Equipment account for the purchase of an "exciter" for the power plant, of different design from that originally anticipated.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board directed the
payment of $t,ooo to Albert Kahn on account of services as
architect of the Science Building.
On motion of Regent Clements the sum of $5oo was set
aside as salary of Professor John F'. Shepard as Scientific
Inspector on the Science Building during the months of
July, August, and September.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That if possible, quarters for Regents' meetings should be included in the new Library Building.
Regent Leland filed the following statement of audit by
the Auditor General of the books of the Treasurer of the
University:



226


JULY MLEETING, I95i


I-Ho. H-. B. -HUTCHINS,
President of University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
DEAR SIR:I enclose herewith statement covering the examination
of the accounts of Mr. R. A. Campbell, Treasurer of the
University of Michigan. This examination takes up the
accounts at the close of business May 31, I915, up to and including June 8th.
Page I is a condensed statement showing the condition
of the accounts of Mir. Campbell, as treasurer. Pages 2 to
20 inclusive, are auxiliary statements summarized on page I.
You will notice by page I that the cash on hand and in
the several banks to the credit of Mr. Campbell, as treasurer,
and the demands of institution accounts exactly agree.
Very respectfully,
ORAMrEL B. FULLER,
Auditor General.
Dictated by
FRED Z. HAMILTON,
General Accountant.
June I9, I915.
On motion of Regent Gore the following resolution was
adopted:Resolved, That Acting Dean John R. Effinger be elected
Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
with salary of $5,ooo, as provided in the budget, for his
combined duties as Dean and Professor.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board directed that
all questions pertaining to the admission of students to the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, on recommendation from    diploma schools, should hereafter be decided by the Registrar of that College instead of by the
Dean. In view of these added duties the sum of $200 was
added   to the  salary  of Professor Arthur G. Hall as
Registrar.
On motion of Regent Clements the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved, That Librarian Theodore W. Koch be given
leave of absence for the year 1915-I916 with full salary.




JULY MEETING, 1915


227


On motion of Regent Clements the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That William W. Bishop be appointed Librarian of the University at a salary of $40oo  per annum,
with the rank of full Professor, to take office September I,
or as soon as possible.
On motion of Regent Clements the sum of $Iooo was
added to the budget to permit a complete equipment of steel
vault fixtures in the vault of the Secretary and Treasurer.
On motion of Regent Hubbard certain questions arising with respect to property in Philadelphia coming to the
University some years ago under the will of the late Henry
Phillips (see page 103) were referred to Regent Leland
with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the Board voted that when
adjournment should be taken the date to which the Board
adjourned should be October 15 next.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the travelling expenses
of Regent Gore amounting to $124.52 from January 26,
19I4 to June 4, 1915, inclusive, and the travelling expenses
of Regent Hubbard amounting to $403.0I from October I,
I914 to June 29, 1915, inclusive, were approved.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, William A. Paton was appointed as Instructor in Economics for the year I915-I916
at the salary of $Iooo as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Clements (Regent Beal not voting)
the Board referred to Regent Beal with power the question
of securing an option upon or of buying; within specified
limits, the property at 237 South Ingalls Street.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the Board referred to
the Executive Committee, with power, the question whether
the lantern slide shop, housed in one of the University
buildings, should be permitted to advertise for work of this
nature in addition to work done for the University itself.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that no
additions should henceforth be made to the budget of the
Health Service for the University year 1915-I916.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the Board adopted the
following resolution:



228


JULY MEETING, 1915


Resolved, That is is the sense of the Regents that chemical analyses should be made by the University for municipalities and public institutions, when requested, at no greater
charge than the actual cost to the University.
The President filed certain correspondence submitted by
Dean Cooley relative to the so-called Paper Manufactures
Fellowship.
Dean Hinsdale, in a communication, called attention to
the fact that House Enrolled Act No. 153 passed by the
legislature of I915 uses the terms, "University H-ospital"
and "Medical Faculty."   On motion of Regent Sawyer the
Board construed these terms as including the University
Homceopathic Hospital and Hom(eopathic Medical Faculty.
The President filed a letter from Richard H. Webber as
executor of the will of the late Professor Richard Hudson,
expressing the belief that the bequest to the University
could be paid early in the year I916.
Professor Newcombe communicated to the B1oard the
gift to the Botanical Herbarium  of two large bundles of
pressed and mounted plants, one by Dr. A. J. Pieters and
wife and the other by Dr. F. C. Gates. On motion of Regent Sawyer the Secretary was instructed to express the
thanks of the Board to these donors.
The Secretary presented the following letter:MlY DEAR I)n. -ITlTCHINS:I. inclose a check on the Peoples' State Bank of Detroit
for thirteen hundred dollars, payable to the University of
{\Michigan, which has been contributed by the friends of the
late Charles F. Adams and which they wish to be given to
the Univiersity of Michigan anFd lklnown as the Charles
Francis Adams Memlorial Fund. The interest on this sum1
is to be paid by the University each year to the graduate of
the Detroit Central High School who shall be named b- the
school for this honor.
Very truly yours,
DAVID M\lA    IcKVizT.
President Harry 1. 11utchils,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, M\ichigan.
Detroit, Michigan, July I7, I9I5.




JULY MEETING, 1915


229


On motion of Regent Bulkley the gift of this scholarship
was accepted with thanks of the Regents.
The' President stated that he had appointed Mr. Clark
Olds as member of the Alfred Noble Memorial Committee
in place of Mr. W. W. Follett who could not accept the appointment because of ill health. (See page I48.)
The President stated that he had appointed Regent Gore,
Judge C. B. Grant, and Professor H. R. Cross as the committee in charge of Alumni Memorial Hall.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the Board approved the
continuance during I915-I916 of religious services in Hill
Auditorium under the same conditions governing these
services during I914-1915.
Regent Leland was excused.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the sum of $250 was
added to the appropriation in the budget for the support of
the University Band with the understanding that this sum
was to be used, in connection with the University School of
Music, for securing a first-class leader for the band.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the sum of $ioo was
voted as a contribution by the University to the expenses of
the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary
Schools in the work of redefinitions of units for college
entrance requirements.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the request of Assistant
Professor C. H. Kauffman for leave of absence in the fall
until November 15, in order that he might spend this time in
making forest studies and collections in Oregon and Washington, was granted on condition that Professor Kauffman
would, in accordance with the terms of his request, provide
for the care of his University work during his absence.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the following appointments, causing no increase in the budget, were made for
I915-I916, in the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture:Glenn D. Bradley, Instructor in English, at $IIOO, vice
Arthur D. DeFoe, resigned.
Roy S. Swinton, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics,
$I200, vice Harold R. Lloyd, resigned.
Ernest Harrison Barnes, Instructor in Drawing (College of
Architecture), $I200, vice Raymond Everett, resigned.




230


JULY '!JEETING, 1915


A communication was received from Assistant Professor
Henri Hus stating that he had been tendered a position by
the United States Rubber Company to take charge for three
years of its experimental plant-breeding work in the island
of Sumatra, and requesting a three-years' leave of absence
without salary, in order that he might accept this opportunity. On motion of Regent Hubbard the Board granted this
request.
A communication was received from Dr. Peterson relative to providing new quarters for the Maternity Ward at
the University Hospital. On motion of Regent Sawyer this
communication was referred to the Hospital Committee of
the University Hospital Staff for consideration and report.
The Secretary requested the formal approval of the
Board of the balancing-off of the following overdrafts in
accounts of 1914-19I5, and on motion of Regent Beal this
action was taken.
Diplomas................................$  428.52
Phone Rental............................ 689.62
General Catalogue.......................  52.78
Newspaper  rack.........................  1.50
Buildings and Grounds Current............24
Fuel................................ 887I.37
Gas....................................  4.54
Light.................................. 1025.20
W ater...................................  232.21
'Reserve Book Section Library...........  7I.7I
Science  Building........................  36.68
Anatomical Material.................. 2523.43
Dental  Clinic............................  226.65
University Health Service, Hospital Fund.. 205.10
Pharmacy...............................  114.78
Total..............................$ 4,484.33
Dean Kraus of the Summer Session transmitted to the
Regents the following resolution adopted by the State Board
of Health, July 9, I9I5.
Acknowledging the close relations existing between the
functions and practices of the modern embalmer, and the
public and private health interests of our communities and
recognizing the larger possibilities for practical and efficient




JULY' MEETING, 1915


231


co-operation in Public Health service, and feeling assured
that a better educational opportunity for those aspiring to
become professional embalmers will materially aid in such
co-operation, we most respectfully request and earnestly
urge the President and Board of Regents of our State
University to continue the Embalming course recently established, believing that its maintenance, at public expense,
is eminently justifiable.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved the
continuance for two years more of the Summer Session
course in embalming, which has been in effect for three
years, this continuance being upon condition that the annual
average attendance for the five years of this instruction
should be at least ten.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the Board authorized
changes in Room K of the Law Building at an estimated
cost of $292.49 to adapt this room to the use of the Municipal Reference Bureau, and approved the use of these
quarters by the Bureau.
On motion of Regent Beal, Rodrigo H. Bonilla, of the
United States Naval Academy, was appointed Instructor in
Spanish for the year 1915-I916 at a salary of $iooo, as provided in the budget.
A communication was received from Joseph Ripley,
Chairman of the Alfred Noble Memorial Committee, with
respect to the activities which should be pursued by this
committee. No action was taken upon this communication,
the President stating that he would personally write Mr.
Ripley with respect to the questions involved.
On motion of Regent Beal the sum of $305 was added
to the equipment budget of the Department of Forestry to
restore the allowance for equipment for this Department to
the amount originally recommended by the Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the expenditure of not to
exceed $Ioo was authorized to provide the services of a
trained medical woman to assist the women Health Service
physicians in physical examinations at the opening of the
University next fall.




232


JULY MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Hanchett certificates of graduation
from the Homceopathic Hospital Training School for Nurses were awarded to the following:-,Hazel Emma Oppermann         Thomasena Ross
Beulah Evais Rosenthal
The following appointments made by the Secretary to
positions for which compensation is provided in the budget
were approved on motion of Regent Sawyer.
Ruth Rouse, substitute Stenographer and Clerk in the office
of the Dean of the Law School during the absence of
Jessie Hurd, due to illness. Miss Rouse's services began June 8 with compensation at the rate of $50 per
month.
Karl Staatz, Laboratory Assistant in Internal Medicine, beginning June 24 with salary at the rate of $2,00 per year
on the twelve-months' basis.
On motion of Regent Sawyer an allowance of $429.98
was made for the purchase of an adding machine, with
motor, for the Secretary's office.
A request was received from the University School of
Music for use of the two chorus rooms at the rear of Hill
Audidtorium on the Thayer Street side for purposes of instruction in certain courses in theoretical and historical
music. On motion of Regent Gore this permission was
granted subject to further order of the Regents.
On motion of Regent Beal Dr. Sven Froeberg, now Professor of Psychology in Upsala College was appointed Instructor in Psychology for 1915-I916 at the salary of $iooo
as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal and following recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred
upon the persons listed below:Warren Conrad Breidenbach   Jack Harry Hamill
Duncan Campbell              Hiram Leroy Henderson
Hermon Harrison Cole        Ralph Waldo Hussey
Leon Basil Cowen             Harther Lewis Keim
William John Egan            Roy Lee Laird
Walter Abram Fort            Hugh Raymond Meyer
Spencer Dewitt Guy




JULY MEETING, 1915


233


In accordance with the request of the Faculty of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Board made
the following orders relative to the method of conducting
entrance examinations in September and February.
(I) The examination questions are to be printed.
(2) The blank books are to be furnished by the University.
(3) The examinations are to be presided over by a proctor
employed for the purpose.
The expense of this new method is to be subject to the
approval of the Auditing Board and is not in any case to
exceed $I25.
On recommendation of the Faculty of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and on motion of Regent


Beal, the degree of Bachelor
the following persons:David Clyde Andrews
Horace Justin Andrews
Edith Louise Benson
Norman Leroy Cary
Leo Francis Covey
Percy Hatfield Crane
Dorothy Lynne Davidson
Robert Henry Easterbrooks
Henry Hallowell Farquhar
Jane Kirkland Graham
Harry Reynolds Hewitt
Garrett Heyns
Albert Hyma


of Arts was conferred upon
William Harry Jellema
Jacob Levin
James Stuart Martin
Robert Frederick Paton
William Andrew Paton
James Speed Rogers
Mildred Coburn Scott
Lucile Ada Sproat
Joseph David Steere
Robert Hudson Tannahill
Charles Weinberg
Harriet Lane Bouldin


On recommendation of the Faculty of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and on motion of Regent
Beal, the Board voted teacher's diplomas and life certificates
to the following:Edith Louise Benson       Bertha Lorraine Olsen
Jane Kirkland Gra'ham    IMildred Coburn Scott
On motion of Regent Sawyer the salary of Miss Emma
Boepple, stenographer in the Department of Dermatology
and Syphilology, was increased to $540 per year.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the following appointments, recommended by the Acting Dean of the Summer




234                JULY MEETING, 1915
Session, within the Summer Session budget, were made:COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Latin
Instructor G. H. Taylor, 64 hours.............. $200.00
Education
Assistant M. B. Marvin....................... 50.00
Astrono my
Instructor P. W. iMerrill, 32 hours (additional)...oo.oo
The appointment of Professor W. J. Hussey
to be cancelled.
Chemistry
Assistant 0. E. Madison, additional duties, total
salary....................................  8o.oo
Jlineralogy
Instructor R. W. Clark, 32 hours............... Io00o.
The appointment of Assistant Professor W.
F. Hunt to be cancelled.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
En1gineering Mechanics
Instructor 0. W. Boston, 64 hours............  200.00
The appointment of Assistant Professor W.
C. Fishleigh to be cancelled.
Electrical Engineerilg
The appointment of Professor B. F. Bailey to be
cancelled.
Chemical Engineering
Assistant E. K. Goettel....................... 40.00
Architecture
Assistant Professor B. Robinson, 32 hours..... I33.33
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Physiology
Assistant T. Raphael.........................  50.00
Anato mly
Assistant R. F. Wafer........................ Ioo.oo
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Assistant C. V. Nichols............................ 20.00




JULY MEETING, 1915


235


BIOLOGICAL STATION
Research Assistant H. G. May, vice M. S. Watson,
withdrawn....................................  50.00
ADMINISTRATION
L. M. Sprague, Assistant in Law Library........... 25.oo
The following communication was received:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July 22, 1915.
At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the University Health Service, held July I, I915, recommendation
was made to the Board of Regents that the budget of the
Health Service for I915-I916, amounting to $22,890.00, be
adopted as submitted. This includes an increase of $00O.OO
in the salary for the stenographer to the Health Service,
$960 as the salary of the nurse downstairs, and $720 as the
salary for the nurse upstairs, also provision for a technical
assistant, and an increase of $290 in the contingent fund.
EDWARD H. KRAUS,
Secretary, Board of Directors,
University Health Service.
July I4, 1915.
On motion of Regent Sawyer these recommendations were
approved and enacted with the modification that the salaries
of the nurses are to be $So per month in each case, in one
case for twelve months and in the other case for nine
months.
On motion of Regent Beal the Board *appointed Dr.
Samuel Moore as Associate Professor of English at the
salary of $210o, already provided in the budget, beginning
with the University year I915-I916.
On motion of Regent Hanchett and on recommendation
of the Executive Board of the Graduate School degrees
were conferred as follows:MASTER OF SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)
James Francis Dubuar, A.B.     Gerald MacTee Hunter, A.B.
Harvey Warren Goddard, A.B.    Nels Ole Nicholson, A.B.
Lloyd Gibson Hornby, A.B.      John Frederick Preston, A.B.




236


JULY lMIEETING, 1915


MASTER OF SCIENCE (IN ENGINEERING)
Ralph Edward Christman, B.Ch.E.
MASTER OF SCIENCE
Louis T'headore Anderegg, A.B., Oberlin College, A.M., ibid
Philip Huston Hammond, A.M., Columlbia University
Neil Bryan Lawrence, B.S. (Phar.)
MASTER OF ARTS
Frederick Carl Domroese, A.B., Butler College
Wright Austin Gardner, B.S., Albion College
John E. Kuizenga, A.B., Hope College, A.M., ibid
Paul Laird Miller, B.S., Hiram College
Glenn Gaywaine Munn, A.B.
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Ransom Smith Hawley, B.S.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
the Regents reconsidered their action in granting the degree
of Doctor of Public IHealth to Mr. Roy W. Pryer for the
reason that Mir. Pryer absented himself from  Commencement Exercises. The minutes of the meeting of June, 1915,
were corrected accordingly by the deleting of this name from
page 200 as originally submitted to the Regents in proof.
On motion of Regent Sawyer and following recommendation by the faculty of the Medical School, certificates of
graduation from the University Hospital Training School
for Nurses were granted to the following:Grace Reeb                   Mazie Smith
Mary Bock                    Gertrude Pottruff
Florence E. Goodenough       Margaret L. Royce
On motion of Regent Sawyer and following recommendation by the Medical Faculty, appointments for I915-I916
were made as follows to positions provided for in the budget
of the Medical School:
Harold deBlois Barss, A.B., M.D., Instructor in Orthopedic
and Genito-urinary Surgery, $9oo.
John Gray Gage, M.D., Instructor in Physiology and
Pharmacology, $9oo.
C. H. Laws, M.D., Instructor in Pediatrics, $900, vice A. H.
Beifeld, resigned.




JULY IMEETING, r1915


237


On motion of Regent Sawyer the request of the Faculty
of the College of Dental Surgery for an additional stenographer and clerk was referred with power to a committee consisting of Regent Sawyer and the Secretary.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the salary of Dr. Frank C.
Cole for the year I915-1916 was fixed at $i8oo, and of Dr.
Alfred J. Schroeder was fixed at $i5oo, $200 being taken
from an allowance of $300 for an assistantship in order to
provide this increase for Dr. Cole and Dr. Schroeder.
A communication was received from Theodore W. Koch,
Librarian, relative to Library Buildings.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the rank of Walter T.
Fishleigh was advanced to an associate professorship of
Mechanical Engineering with the salary of $2200, with the
understanding that this action should not increase the total
budget of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley setting
forth the desirability of other quarters than the Engineering
Building, for the College of Architecture. On motion of
Regent Hubbard this communication was referred with
power to the President and the Chairman of the Regents'
Committee on the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
On motion of Regent Bulkley and as recommended by
the Faculty of the Law School the degree of LL.B. was conferred upon the following:William George Evenson    Samuel Joseph Rhodes
Milton Ernest Mills
On motion of Regent Clements certain questions relative
to fire insurance upon University property were referred
with power to Regent Clements and the Secretary.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion, the Board adjourned to October 15 at Io
A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary.




APPENDIX
BUDGET OF I915-1916
As APPROVED JUNE 3, 1915
(Page 179)
Following there are presented (I) the estimated current income
of the University for the year I915-I916; (II) the annual budget and
other appropriations (exclusive of special legislative appropriations
and of gifts) in detail by Departments and other sub-divisions, together with a summary, and (III) a statement of new appointments
and reappointments and changes in titles and salaries made in the
Budget.
(I) INCOME
The estimated income for I915-I916 based on previous experience, is as follows:3/8  M ill  T ax.........................................$I,1 5,0 o00.00
Students' Fees (basis of I914-I1915) net, exclusive of
Summer Session and Diploma fees................    41o,860.79
Summer Session (as in I914).........................  33,5II.95
Interest on Endowment (as in I914-I915).............   38,442.I3
Homceopathic School,    S Special Legislative.............. $6,ooo  Appropriations omitted........
Summer Hospitals,       in tabulation of both.............. $3,000  income and budget
University Hospital (as in I914-I915).................  204,326.04
Homoeopathic Hospital (as in I914-I915)..............  52,961.76
Dental Operating Room (as in I914-1915).............   I4,I70.81
Roentgenology (as in I914-I915)......................   4,664.40
Pasteur  Institute  (as  in  I914-I915)....................  2,528.00
Diplomas (as in I914-I915)...........................  I2,876.00
Interest on Deposits (as in I914-I915).................  3,817.08
Rent of Houses (as in I914-1915).....................   1,153.33
Miscellaneous.......................................   5,000.00
$I,834,312.29
Net General Fund' balance on hand June 30, 1915
(Less  Special Psychopathic   Ward   Building
Fund Overdraft, $9,464.63)....................  53,645.88
One-tenth mill tax for 1914-1915, undrawn.........  15,ooo.oo0
Portion of I914 mill tax, undrawn.................  57,000o.oo
Estimated Current Income (I915-I916), including balance
at beginning  of year.............................. $2,149,958.17




(II) ANNUAL DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET FOR I915-1916
APPROVED JUNI 3, 1915
Administration


No. Persons
Salaries............................................  21
Postage............................................
Miscellaneous Printing...................
Contingent.................................
Total for Administration....................... 2I


Pay Roll
$38,360.00
$38,360.00


Buildings and Grounds Department


No. Persons     Pay Roll
General............................................       I9      $22,720.00
Shop  Supplies......................................
Janitor Service....................................       46        27,505.00
Laundry.:................................................
T eam s..............................................
G as..........................................................
Electric I,ight and Power Purchased..........................
W  ater.......................................................
Street  Sprinkling...................................
M aintenance.................................................
Power   Plant.......................................     I4         6,995.00
Fuel................................................
Repairs and Improvements...............................


Current
Expense
$ 2,500.00
5,000.00
10,500.00
$I8,ooo.oo
Current
Expense
$   700.00
I,350.oo
i,6oo.oo
500.00
5o00.0o0
2,700.00
I,200.00
6,000.00
i,5ooo.oo
18,0(}0.00
2,000.00
71,200.00
35,030.00


Equipment
Equipment
$ 1,241.00
2,680.00
3,I50.00


Total
$38,360.0o
2,500.00
5,000.00
10,500.00
$56,360.00
Total
$24,66I.OO
I,350.00
29,105.00
3, I8o.oo
500.00
2,700.00
1,200.00
6,000.00
50oo.00
18,ooo.oo
22,145.00
71,200.00
35,030.00


ta
N:
(J"
IL
i 
K 
^j


Total for Buildings and Grounds Departmnent.'.. - 79


$67,220.00   $I41,280.00    $ 7,071.00   $215,571.00  c
' $215,571.OO                  kO~~~~~~~~~~~~'I




College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


-4
0


DEPARTMENTS                                No. Persons   Pay Roll
Literary Administration............................   8      $ 8,500.00
Astronomy........................................    5        9,700.00
Botanical  Garden.................................    2       -:2,92o0.00
Botany...........................................  19   I7,300.00
Education..........................................   5      tI3,750.00
Education-Appointment Committee.................       3,8oo.oo
Education-High School Inspection.................      2       2,700.00
English........................................       7        5,00.00
Fine  A rts........................................   3        3,400.00
Forestry...........................................   8       12,320.00
Geology.....................................II         14,650.00
German..................................     12       22,000.00
Greek..............................................    3        5,650.00
History........................................      15       23,700.0,0
Landscape Design...................................    3        3,600.00
Latin............................................  7        3,150.00
Mathematics.......................................    II       2,300.00
Mineralogy......................................       7        7,900.00
usic..............................................     2       4,300.00
Oratory......................................     6       6,400.00
Philosophy.........................................  12      2I,200.00


Current
Expense
$,9oo00.0
990.00
oo2.oo
79z.oo00
300.00
250.00
85o.00
25.00
50.00
1,000.00
250.00
60.oo
3:0.00
6o.oo
725.00
50.00
125.00
405.00
I00.00
665.00
35o.00


Equipment
$   IOo.00
6oo.oo
2,120.00
200.00
150.00
500.00
875.00
1,450.oo
I65.oo
125.00
26I.00
250.00
100.00
I, 3o0.0.0
800.00
8oo.oo


Total
$I0,500.00
I 1,290.00
3,820.00
20,212.00
14,250.00
2,050.00
3,550.00
15,275.00
3,950.00
14,I95.00
16,350.00
22,225.00
5,8105.00
23,76o.0o
4,586.00
13,45o.00
21,525.00
9,605.00
4,400o.00
7,o65.00
22,350.00


Physics............................................, 8


26,400.00


900.0'0     2,430o-00     29,730-09




Political  Economy..................................  23
Political  Science....................................  6
R hetoric...........................................  15
Romance   Languages................................   13
Semitics...........................................     I
Zoology............................................   I8
Total for College of Literature, Science
and the Arts...............................242
* Net, less duplicates.
t Including labor temporarily hired.
Including allowance for observation work in city schools.


33,250.00
9,500.00
20,950.00
22,9o.o00
3,oo00.o00
17,450.00


47o.o0
210.00
50.00
25.00
1,250.00


250.00
100.00
5o.oo
125.00
3,805.oo


33,970.00
9,8Io.oo
21,050.00
23,050.00
3,oo.o00
22,505.00


$364,790.00   $I2,782.00    $I5,756.00  $393,328.00




Colleges of Engineering and Architecture


DEPARTMENTS                                 No. Persons     Pay Roll
Engineering Administration................            $ 5,900.00
Engineering English................................      Io,8Oo.oo
Engineering Modern Languages.....................14,500.0
Engineering Mathematics............................  I4     24,700.00
Drawing...........................................  13  13,200.00
Engineering Shops.................................      29        26,550.00
Surveying..........................................      6        4,900.00
Surveying Camp...................................       I5         3,800.00
Surveying Camp Fee Fund (Estimated)...............
Engineering Mechanics..................   4        15,500.00
Civil Engineering................................... 20    24,850.00
Civil Engineering (Highway Construction)...............
Mechanical Engineering............................   23        33,300.00
Electrical Engineering..................    13       I6,05.o00
Chemical Engineering...............................               13,200.00
Chemical Engineerin,g.................................  II    I3,2100.00
Marine Engineering...............   3         6,200.00
Architecture.........................................   IO        I7,200.00
Engineering Equipment..................................
Total for Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.*I96       $240,650.00
* Net, less duplicates.


Current
Expense
$ 2,800.00
75.00
30.00
30.00
200.00
2,730.00
375.00
i,8oo.oo
800.00
525.00
2,290.00
1,500.o0
3,4I.o00
I,475.oo
I,200.00
395.00
490.00
0,215.0..
$20,2I5.0'0


Equipment      Total


$........
3,0o.oo00
7,263.00
$10,343.00


$ 8,70o.o0
IO,875.00
14,530.00
24,730.00
13,400o.00
29,280.00
15,275.00
8,770.00
800.00
16,025.00
27, 40.00
1,500.00
36,710.00
17,525.00
14,400.00
6,595.00
17,690.00
7,263.00
$271,208.00


C
1Y
r
(t7
tn
ZZI
\0
Ch




Medical School


DEPARTMENTS                              No. i
M edical  Administration.............................
A natom y...........................................
Anatomy, Anatomical 'Material......................
Dermatology and Syphilology.......................
Hygiene  and  Bacteriology...........................
Internal  M edicine...................................
Materia Medica and Therapeutics...................
N eurology..........................................
Obstetrics  and  Gynecology..........................
Ophthalm ology.....................................
O tolaryngology.....................................
Pathology..........................................
Physiology.........................................
R oentgenology......................................
Serology............................................
S urg ery............................................


Current
Persons   Pay Roll     Expense     Equipment       Total


3
I4
3
I4
9
6
4
5
5
4
5
5
2
3
12


$ 2,100.00
I6, loo.oo
3,880.00
17,3500oo
IO,680.00
7,700.00
4,150.00
Provided
5,040.00
4,380.00
6,400.00
5,700.00
3,540.00
I,56o.oo
I 2,255.o00


$ 1,200.00
1,525.00
2,000.00
460.00
7,720.00
890.00
500.00
200.00
for in Bates
437.00
400.00
2,000.00
5,50.00
3,000.00
I40.00
909.02


$........     $
375.00 
240.00
550.00
45o.oo      l
450.00
I00.00
100.00
Professorship Fund.
325.00
550.00
3'75.00
25'0.00
390.00
325.00     I


3,300.00
[8,000.00
2,000.00
4,580.00
25,620.00
I2,0120.00
8,300.00
4,450.00
5,802.00
5,330.00
8,775.00
6,5oo.oo
6,930.00,700o.oo
3,489.02


I ,
-l,t4, I 


Total for Medical School......
* Net, less duplicates and Bates Fund..................  *86


$100,835.00     $21,93I.02    $ 4,030.00    $126,796.02




Chemical Laboratory                                                     o
Current 
SUB-DEPARTMENTS                            No. Persons    Pay Roll      Expense      Equipment        Total
Administration.....................................   12     $ 6,055.00     $I6,575.00    $ 2,0410.00   $24,670.00
Special-New Equipment..............................................                         3,640.00      3,64.00
General and Physical Chemistry..................... 21          I7,750.00..................       7,750.00
Analytical Chemistry...............................    I8       12,950.00..................      I2,950.00
Organic Chemistry..................................    7        8,350.00.............       8,350.00
Total, Chemical Laboratory...................... $*570    $46,575.00oo                 $ 5,68.oo     $67,360.00 
* Net, less duplicates.
The remaining departments of the University are not divided into sub-divisions.    Therefore see summary of
Budget below. 
SUIMMARY o0 BUDGET FOR I915-I916 AS APPROVED JUNE 3, 1915. THIS DoES NoT INCLUDE SPECIAL (BUILDING) FUNDS 
OR GIFT FUNDS. 
Current,
No. Persons    Pay Roll      Expense      Equipment        Total
Administration..................................... 21        $3,360.        $8,ooo.oo     $........     $56,36o.oo
Buildings and Grounds.............................. 79         67,220.00     141,280.00      7,07I.00    215,571.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 242    364,79o.00o      2,782.o00    I5,756.00    393,3128.00
Graduate School (including 26 Fellows)............. 28          I0,200.00      2,200.00.........      12,400.00
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture............ 96       240,650.00      20,215.00     10,343.00    271,208.00
Medical School.....................................  86       Ioo,835.00     21,93I.02      4,030.00    I26,796.02
Chemical Laboratory..................... 57        45,I05.00      I6,575.00      5,68o.oo     67,360.00
Law   School.........................................  32      68,i8o.oo       2,000.00       400.00      70,580.00




College  of  Pharmacy................................
Homceopathic Medical School.......................
Homoeopathic Laboratory Student Fee Fund (Est.)...
College  of  Dental  Surgery..........................
College of Dental Surgery, Clinic Expense...........
Dean of Women and Barbour Gymnasium...........
W aterman  Gymnasium..............................
University Museum.................................
Libraries (excluding salaries Law Library)
(No. Student Assistants Estimated)............
Libraries,  Books....................................
Law Library Fee Fund (Estimated).................
Medical Library Fee Fund (Estimated)..............
Sum m er  Session....................................
Biological Station...................................
University  H ospital.................................
Homoeopathic  Hospital..............................
University Extension Service.......................
University Extension Service (Credit Plan)..........
University  Health  Service...........................
University Health Service Hospital Fund............
University Health Service Emergency Fund..........


8
I4
23..
5 -5
5


8,150.00
19,000.00
31,700.00
5,920.'00
4,60o.00
5,760.00


270.00
1,000.00
150.00
2,325.00
8,000.00
490.00
150.00
827.00


31
222
65
t2
IO
I0..


26,774.1I7    3,000.oo
59,336.70     1,825.00
2,47'5.00    I,I45.50
57,442.50   I22,670.00
I3,799-00    4I,000.00
T9,200.00     3,200.00
2,400.00      200.00
13,330.00     I,8I0.oo............ 5,000.00.........  I,000.00
$I,195,227.37  $429,045.52


1,000.00
1,000.00
i6o.oo
150.00
605.00
32,000.00
600.00
I,o8o.oo
6oo.oo
301.00
1,500.00
250.00
$81,926.oo


8,420.00
2I,000.00
I50.00
35,025.00
8,ooo.00
6,570.oo
4,900.00
7,192.00
63,454.17
6I,I61.70
3,921.50
180,112.50
56,2199.0
12,400.00
2,600.00
21,390.00
$I,7016,I98.89


Total for Departments........................*20
* Net, less duplicates.
t Aside from lecturers.
t Includes compensation of lecturers.


(n




246                JULY MEETING, 1915
MISCELLANEOUS
Forwarded................................... $I,706,198.89
Printing Plant.......................................   i,ooo.00
Superintendent Printing and Binding Plants, Salary...   1,500.00
Custodian Memorial Building, Salary.................      700.00
Custodian Memorial Building, Current................      200.00
Director Outdoor Athletics..........................    1,2o0.00
Storehouse Capital and Expense......................  II,450.00
Storehouse, Salaries.................................   3,240.00
Commencement Expense.............................      I,c00.o0
Diplomas............................................   2,200.00
Phone  Rental........................................  3,000.00
Schoolmasters' Club Reports.........................       70.00
Alumni Association..................................      6o0.00
Y. M. C. A...........................................     500.00
Non-Resident Lecture Fund..........................     I,000.00
Publicity and Organization among Alumni............     7,0oo.o0
Regents' Traveling Expense.........................      1,500.00
Photographs of Buildings............................      100.00
News Editor, Salaries................................     500.00
News Editor, Current................................      2010.00
Auditor Student Organizations.......................      250.00
Attorneys' Retainer Fee..............................     250.00
Legal  Counsel  Fee..................................   500.00
Fire   Insurance.......................................  2,000.00
Student Council......................................     I50.0
Chairman Committee on Student Affairs..............       200.00
Chairman Board in Control of Athletics...............     200.00
Regents'  Reception...................................   I5o.oo
Workmen's Compensation Insurance..................       1,200.00
University  Band.....................................  75o.00
Stage Director S. C. A. Hall.........................    300.00
Care of Organ......................................       250.00
Outdoor Physical Education (Est. Fees)..............   30,000.00
Indigent Patients, University Hospital................  5,000.00
Indigent Patients, Homceopathic Hospital.............   2,000.00
Science Building Equipment..........................   25,000.00
Total Budget as adopted June 3.................. $,812,I58.89
Add the following balances to be carried over from
I914-I915:Alumni Association.................................. $    I50.00
Miscellaneous Printing...............................   5,075.69




JULY MEETING, I9I5                         247
Photographs 'of Buildings............................       77.54
Fire Insurance.......................................    2,196.52
Stage Director S. C. A. Hall..........................    365.68
Anniversary Celebration.............................       III.25
Hill Auditorium, Benches, Lamps, etc...............       400.48
Humanistic Studies, Vol. XI.........................       295.25
Library Commission Traveling Expense...............         25.83
Mailing and Cataloguing Outfit.......................      95.94
Michigan Trees Bulletin, 3rd Edition.................     658.00
Printing Statutes and By-Laws.......................        58.29
Dean C. Worcester Collection.........................     762.74
Printing Early Regents Proceedings..................     1,260.00
Science Building Equipment..........................    15,619.74
Moving Picture Booth...............................        105.00
Sketches Library Addition...........................       I50.00
W'heelock  Land  Purchase............................      00.00
Campus and City Plan...............................      1,5oo.00
Cap and Gown Contract..............................      29I.CO
S. A. Commencement Luncheon......................          494.36
Appraisal Mortgages.................................      100.00
Moving Musical Collection.............................     250.00
Buildings and Grounds Equipment....................         58.52
Laundry Equipment.................................          91.23
Power Plant Equipment............................           39.58
Repairs and Improvements...........................  2,045.00
Transmission Extension.............................    6,857.08
Tunnel Martha Cook Building........................      2,045.39
Greenhouse Construction.............................    19,718.29
Galloway Land Purchase (Engineering Camp)........    320.00
Literary Administration Equipment....................       39.96
Purchase Calculating Machine........................     110.25
Astronomy Current (Publications)..................  500.00
Astronomy Equipment...............................         I85.08
Botany  Equipment.................................  9.Io
Botany Fire Damage.................................      3,701.03
Education, Current (for Printing Publication).........      50.00
English   Equipment..................................1.45
Fine Arts Equipment................................        I53.42
Forestry Equipment..................................       233.75
Geology Equipment.................................         I35.96
Greek Equipment....................................         29.43
History Equipment..................................52.II
Landscape Design Equipment.........................          7.49
Latin   Equipm ent.....................................76




248                JULY MEETING, 1915
Mathematics Equipment..............................         19.32
Mineralogy   Collection...............................  2,500.00
Philosophy Equipment...............................         53.65
Philosophy Current..................................        81.32
Physics Equipment..................................        196.45
Political Economy Equipment........................         38.01
Political Science Equipment..........................      7.5I
Romance Languages Equipment......................           65.31
Zoology  Equipment..................................      I24.43
Zoology Fire Damage................................      1,891.56
Engineering Apparatus and Furnishings..............      1,960.5I
Architecture  Equipment..............................       1.93
Highway Construction (Printing)....................   294.4
Mechanical Engineering Current.....................         44.92
Medical Administration Current.....................        275.0o
Clinical Society Reprints, Vols. VI-VII................    362.27
Anatomy Equipment.................................         193.09
Dermatology  Equipment.............................      262.97
Hygiene  Equipment..................................       73.26
Materia Medica Equipment.........................        63.92
Neurology Equipment...............................          45.04
Ophthalmology Equipment............................      140.56
Otology   Current.....................................      1.75
Otology Equipment..................................        132.40
Osteology   Fee  Fund.................................    3 7.82
Physiology Equipment...............................         57.89
Roentgenology Equiipment...........................          7.09
Surgery Equipment..................................        I63.75
University Hospital Equipment......................      7,276.98
University Hospital Furniture.........................     I78.65
University Hospital Surgical Amphitheatre Repairs....       417.I4
Barbour Gymnasium    Equipment.....................  67.96
Palmer Field Fee Fund..............................      3,536.25
Chemistry Equipment................................    I,I23.85
Chemistry Special Equipment........................      2,541.47
Dental College  Current...............................    275.00
University Health Service Equipment.................        30.42
University Health Service Hospital Fund..............    1,593.63
Homoeopathic School Equipment.....................       1,137.52
Homceopathic Laboratory Fee Fund.............     555-72
Homceolpathic Hospital Equipment....................       735.04
Law    Current........................................     75.o0
Law Equipment.....................................         427.89
General Library Book Fund.......................... 4,630.26




JULY MEETING, 1915


249


General Library Fire Damage........................     3,38247
Engineering Library Book Fund.....................      I,557.89
Medical Library Book Fund..........................     1,538.08
Law Library Book Fund.............................         53.27
Law   Library  Fee  Fund...............................    8.25
Homceopathic Library Book Fund.....................       134-43
Dental Library......................................      798.62
Biological Station Equipment..........................     79.97
Biological Station Fire Damage......................        7.54
Waterman Gymnasium Equipment....................          I73.93
Graduate School Salary.............................        00.00
Prettyman Property Repairs.............................   405.77
University Hall Repairs..............................      55.39
Total, Balances Carried -Over............................$  08,803.15
Total, Budget Plus Balances......................$1,920,952.04


Deduct the following overdrafts in anticipation of the
Budget of I915-I916:

Commencement Expense....................$
Education  Equipment.......................
German  Equipment.........................
Publication "Circulation and Sleep".........
Political Economy Printing Fund............
Rhetoric  Equipment........................
Civil  Engineering...........................
Surveying  Camp............................
Surveying Camp Fee Fund.................
Hygiene  Current...........................
Chemistry  Current..........................
Medical Library Fee Fund..................
M useum   Current...........................
Storehouse.................................
Summer   Session  of  1915....................
Biological Station of 1915...................
Electrification of Side Track(temporary acct.)
Hygiene Salaries (Dr. Cummings)..........
Homceopathic College Salaries..............
Summer Session Salaries..................
Repairs Labor..............................


1,002.36.72
3.38
I8.69
278.13
1.13
87.56
1,406.28
277.21
279.57
36.00
28.60
49.I3
2,415.44
1,614.12
200.II
4,973.04
350.00
315.42
306.56
536.78


$14,I8o.23


Total Budget  I915-I916, net.....................$I,906,781.81




250


JULY MEETING, 1915


Less Special Legislative Appropriations   for current
expense, omitted   in totalling  estimated  income
(Homceopathic Medical School $6,000 and Summer Hospitals, $3,000)......................
$I,897,781.8I
Additional Appropriations June 3.....................    3,500.o0
Additional Appropriations June 22....................    5,305.00
Additional Appropriations July 22....................   22,635.97
Total Net Current Appropriations      I915-I916 to
July  22,  I915,  inclusive......................$1,929,222.78
(III)  tNEW   APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES IN TITI.E AND SALARY
INC-,UDEOD IN THE BUDGET 01 I19I5-I9I6, AND NOT ELSEWHERE
RECORDED IN THE REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
*Marion C. Goodrich, Assistant Registrar, $1,200.
Allowance for salary of Dean and Professor, $5,ooo.
William J. Hussey, Professor of Astronomy and Director of the
Observatory, $3,500.
Ralph H. Curtiss, Associate Professor of Astronomy and Assistant
Director of the Observatory, $2,400.
Paul W. Merrill, Instructor in Astronomy, $I,40o.
Lewis L.,Mellor, Assistant in Astronomy, $91go.
*Adolph Weiner, Head Gardener, $1,200.
Henry A. Gleason, Assistant Professor of Botany and Curator of the
Phanerogamic Museum, $I,9oo.
Henri T. A. deL. Hus, Assistant Professor of Botany, $I,8oo.
Botany allowance for Assistants, $3,000.
*Frank W. Lange, Technical Assistant in Botany, $500.
Botany Allowance for additional instructor, $1,ooo.
Calvin O. Davis, Associate Professor of Education, $2,400.
Charles S. Berry, Associate Professor of Education, $2,Ioo.
Frederick S. Breed, Assistant Professor of Education, $I,9oo.
Allan S. Whitney, Professor of Education and Administrator of
Work of Inspection of High Schools, $3,800.
Morris P. Tilley, Associate Professor of English, $2,200.
t This list is not intended to include appointments elsewhere recorded in
the Proceedings, and it is not intended to include (except in cases of change
of salary) reappointments to quasi-permanent positions the incumbents of
which would ordinarily continue from year to year unless superseded.
* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, 19I5; all others from
October I, I915.




JULY    MEETING, I915                     251
William R. Humphreys, Assistant Professor of English, $i,8oo.
Herbert R. Cross, Professor of Fine Arts, $2,700.
Ella S. Hoghton, Assistant in Fine Arts, $6oo.
Leigh J. Young, Assistant Professor of Forestry, $I,8oo.
James H. Pottinger, Instructor in Forestry, $,200o.
Ermine C. Case, Professor of Historical Geology and Paleontology, $3,000.
Irving D. Scott, Assistant Professor of Geology, $I,800.
Frank Leverett, Lecturer on Glacial Geology, $250.
George M. Ehlers, Assistant in Geology, $5co.
Stanley P. Young, Assistant in Geology, $200.
-- --   -----, Instructor in Geography, $1,400.
Wm. H. Buettner (from Sept. I) Preparateur in Paleontology, 12
months basis, rate of $1,200.
Tobias J. C. Diekhoff, Associate Professor of German, $2,400.
Carl E. Eggert, Assistant Professor of German, $2,000.
Richard K. H. Fey, Instructor in German, $I,Ioo.
Frederick B. Wahr, Instructor in German, $I,Ioo.
Hermann J. Weigand, Instructor in German, $I,oo0.
Richard 0. Ficken, Instructor in German, $I,0oo.
Campbell Bonner, Professor of Greek, $3,300.
John G. Winter, Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, $2,100.
Frank E. Robbins, Instructor in Greek, $I,3o0.
William A. Frayer, Assistant Professor of History, $i,8co.
Arthur E. Boak, Assistant Professor of Ancient History, $I,700.
Jonathan F. Scott, Instructor in History, $I,200.
Ross H. McLean, Instructor in History, $I.ooo.
Assistantship in History, $4,00, changed to Instructorship, $I,ooo.
Aubrey Tealdi, Associate Professor of Landscape Design, $2,300..Harold 0. Whittemore, Instructor in Landscape Design, $1,200.
Allowance for Non-Resident Lecturers, Landscape Design, $o10
Orma F. Butler, Assistant in Latin, $400.
George R. Swain, Assistant in Latin, $300.
Walter B. Ford, Associate Professor of Mathematics, $2,300.
Chester H. Forsythe, Instructor in Mathematics, $1,200.
John W. Baldwin, Instructor in Mathematics, $,o00o.
Volney H. Wells, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,0oo.
Carl J. Coe, Instructor in iMathematics, $I,200.
Robert W. Clark, Instructor in Petrography, $I,500.
Earl V. Moore, Assistant in Music, $6oo.
Richard D. T. Hollister, Assistant Professor of Oratory, $1,800
Ray K. Immel, Instructor in Oratory, $I,200.
Louis Eich, Instructor in Oratory, $I,o0o.
Walker Peddicord, Assistant in Oratory, $200.




252


JULY MEETING, 1915


E. Mark Wisdom, Assistant in Oratory, $200.
John F. Shepard, Associate Professor of Psychology, $2,200.
Charles B, Vibbert, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, $I,8oo.
Henry F. Adams, Instructor in Psychology, $1,300.
-, Instructor in Psychology, $I,ooo.
Nellie L. Perkins, Assistant in Psychology, $600.
Carl Brown, Assistant in Psychology, $300.
Howard D. Roelofs, Assistant in Philosophy, $300.
Walter F. Colby, Assistant Professor of Physics, $I,700.
Daniel L. Rich, Instructor in Physics, $1,5oo.
William W. Sleator, Instructor in Physics, $I,5c0.
George A. Lindsay, Instructor in Physics, $I,Ioo.
Glenn A. Shook, Instructor in Physics, $I,100.
Carleton V. Kent, Instructor in Physics, $I,Ioo.
Russell V. Allman, Assistant in Physics, $6oo.
Ernest F. Barker, Assistant in Physics, $6oo.
Ambrose H. Stang, Assistant in Physics, $6o0.
*G. Ritz, Curator in Physics Laboratory, $9co.
, Assistant in Physics, $600.
George W. Dowrie, Assistant Professor of Political Economy, $2,000.
Warren S. Thompson, Instructor in Sociology, $I,300.
Floyd E. Armstrong, Instructor in Economics, $1,300.
William F. Marsteller, Instructor in Economics, $I,Ioo.
Paul W. Ivey, Instructor in Economics, $I,Too.
Frank F. Kolbe, Instructor in Economics, $I,IOO.
Robert G. Rodkey, Instructor in Economics, $I,Ioo.
Wilbur P. Calhoun, Reader in Economics, $300.
---- - ---, Additional Assistant in Economics, $250.
--- -  -, Additional men in Labor and Tax Problems, $2,o00.
Robert T. Crane, Assistant Professor of Political Science, $2,000.
Ralston Hayden, Instructor in Political Science, $I,400.
Robert P. Lane, Instructor in Political Science, $I,200.
Thomas E. Rankin, Associate Professor of Rhetoric, $2,200.
John R. Brumm, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, $I,goo.
Herbert S. Mallory, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,600.
Roy W. Cowden, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,500.
Marion C. Weir, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,400.
Harley L. Senseman, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,200.
Harold P. Scott, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.
Edward S. Everett, Instructor in Rhetoric, $i,ico.
Lyman L. Bryson, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.
Burton G. Grim, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.


* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July i, 1915; all others from
October I, 1915.




JULY MEETING, 1915


253


Clara B. Dunn, Assistant in Rhetoric, $650.
Florence T. Haxton, Assistant in Rhetoric, $300.
Hugo P. Thieme, Associate Professor of French, $2,40o.
Herbert D. Austin, Instructor in French, $I,6oo.
Philip E. Bursley, Instructor in French, $1,200.
Harry V. Wann, Instructor in French, $I,Ioo.
--- -, Instructor in Spanish, $i,o0o.
Otto C. Glaser, Associate Professor of Zoology, $2,203.
Peter Okkelberg, Instructor in Zoology, $1,400.
Elizabeth L. Thompson, Graduate Assistant in Zoology, $600.
*Walter Korndorfer, Technical Assistant in Zoology, $55o.
*Ernest Korndorfer, Technical Assistant in Zoology, $50o.
Carl Russell, Graduate Assistant in Zoology, $400.
Walter Koelz, Graduate Assistant in Zoology, $400.
J. Speed Rogers, Graduate Assistant in Zoology, $40o.
Mina Winslow, Graduate Assistant in Zoology, $300.
William K. Bowen, Undergraduate Assistant in Zoology, $200oo.
Harry C. Fortner, Undergraduate Assistant in Zoology, $200.
Grace I. Fletcher, Undergraduate Assistant in Zoology, $50o.
Additional allowance for assistance in Zoology, $I50.
Colleges of Enlgin1eerilng anld A rc1iteclllre
* ---------, Stenographer, $600.
Beverly Robinson, Assistant Professor of Architecture, $I,700.
George McD..\cConkey, Assistant Professor of Architecture, $1,700.
Sidney F. Kimball, Assistant Professor of Architecture, $I,70o.
Raymond Everett, Instructor in Architecture, $I,500.
Leon A. Makielski, Instructor in Architecture, $1,200.,Professor of Architecture, $2,500.
Albert E. White, -Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering,
$2,000.
VWalter L. Badger, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering,
$I,700.
John D. Rue, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, $1,7c0.
Joseph S. 'Laird, Instructor in Chemical Engineering, $I,3co.
William C. Hoad, Professor of Sanitary Engineering, $3, 50.
Arthur J. Decker, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, $2,200.
Albert R. Bailey, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, $1,700.
John J. Cox, Assistant Professor of Civil Enigineerin, $1,700.
John H. Bringhurst, Instructor in Civil Engineering, $I,500.
James H. Cissel, Instructor in Civil Engineering, $1,2C0.
William H. Sellew, Lecturer on Railway Engineering.


* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, I915; all others from
October i, I915.




254               JULY MEETITNG, 1915
Floyd A. Nagler, Teaching Assistant in Hydraulics, $6oo.
Herbert H. Bartlett, Teaching Assistant in Sanitary Engineering,
$6oo.
Watson G. Harmon, Teaching Assistant in Civil Engineering, Summer Session, $ioo, and year I915-I916, $6oo00.
Net Additional allowance for assistance, Civil Engineering, $I95.
Alice L. Hunt, Instructor in Drawing, $I,400.
Frank R. Finch, Assistant Professor of Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing, $I,700.
Herbert L. Abbott, Assistant Professor of Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing, $I,700.
Wells I. Bennett, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$I,400.
Martin J. Orbeck, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, $r,3oo.
Frank A. Mickle, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$I,200.
Edward F. Tanghe, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, $I,Ioo.
Julius C. Palmer, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$1,000.
Alfred H. Lovell, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering,
$1,700c.
Thomas J. Mackavanagh, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, $1,700.
Harry S. Sheppard, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering,
$1,700.
John F. Wilson, Instructor in Electrical Engineering, $I,5oo.
Harold D. Wines, Instructor in Electrical Engineering, $I,ooo.
--- - -  , Instructor in Electrical Engineering, $I,200.
Additional allowance for assistants in Electrical Engineering, $400.
*David Kummer, Instrument Room Man, $65o.
Ferdinand N. Menefee, Assistant Professor of Engineering Mechanics, $,700o.
Harold F. French, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics, $I,500.
John Airey, Assistant Professor of Engineering Mechanics, $,7o00.
John A. Van Den Broek, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics,
$1,3!0.
Orlan W. Boston, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics, $oo0o.
Frank H. Stevens, Title changed from    Assistant Professor of
Mathematics to Assistant Professor of Engineering Mechanics.
Harold R. Lloyd, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics, $1,500.
Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, I915; all others from
October i, 1915.




JULY MEETING, 195 


255


*Lloyd Force, Clerk in the Engineering Shops, $900.
*William R. McDonald, Foreman and Instructor in Forge Shop,
$I,400.
*William  H. Yeatman, Foreman and Instructor in Wood Shop,
$I,400.
*Emory M. Sweet, Foreman and Instructor in.Machine Shop, $I,300.
J. Ernest Warren, Foreman and Instructor in Foundry, $I,2oo.
*Alonzo S. Berry, Instructor in Wood Shop, $I,Ioo.
*J. D. Boylan, Instructor in Machine Shop, $I,Ioo.
*William Telfer, Instructor in Forge Shop, $I,Io0.
Otto C. Marckwardt, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,600.
Arthur D. DeFoe, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,I00.
George 'G. Wright, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.
Edward M. Grinnell, Instructor in 'Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.
Albert A. Bennett, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,ooo.
Jesse E. Thornton, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.
Lester Vincent, Assistant in Rhetoric, $40o.
Edward M. Bragg, Professor of Marine Engineering and Naval
Architecture, $2,500.
William V. N. Garretson, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,5oo.
Louis A. Hopkins, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,500.
Vincent C. Poor, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,5c0.
Louis J. Rouse, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,Ioo.
Walter W. Kuestermann, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,300.
Edward S. Allen, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,2C0., Instructor in Mathematics, $I,200.
John R. Allen, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, $4,0oo00.
John H. Rowen, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
$2,000.
Stanislaus J. Zowski, Professor of Mechanical Engineering. $3,500.
Joseph R. Bursley, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
$2,200.
Walter T. Fishleigh, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, $2,000.
Charles H. Fessenden, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, $I,7o0.
William  F. Verner, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, $1,700.
Anton F. Greiner, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
$1,7100.
Clyde E. Wilson, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, $I,5co.
Samuel J. Hoexter, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, $I,400.
* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, 1915; all others from
October i, 1915.




256


JULY MEETING, 1915


Felix W. Pawlowski, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, $1,400.
*H. Boyd, Instrument Room Man, $goo.
William H. Wait, Associate Professor of Modern Languages, $2,300.
Edmund Wild, Instructor in German, $I,500.
Albert F. Hurlburt, Instructor in French and Spanish, $I,5oo.
William R. Rathke, Instructor in French and Spanish, $I,300.
Henry 0. Schwabe, Instructor in German, $I,II0.
Howard B. Merrick, Assistant Professor of Surveying, $2,oco.
Harry H. Atwell, Assistant Professor of Surveying, $1,700.
Harry G. Raschbacher, Assistant Professor of Surveying, $1,7co.
Clifton 0. Carey, Assistant Professor of Surveying, $I,7oo.
Hugh Brodie, Assistant Professor of Surveying, $I,700.
Albert N. Laird, Teaching Assistant in Surveying, $6o0.
Clayton N. Ward, Teaching Assistant in Surveying, $6o0.
M1edical School
John L. Worcester, Instructor in Anatomy, $I,ooo.
Stacey R. Guild, Instructor in Anatomy, $1,ooo.
Wayne J. Atwell, Instructor in Anatomy, $I,00o.
---    -----, Instructor in Anatomy, $oo0.
Harry L. Clark, Assistant in Anatomy, $750.
Arnold Eggereth, Assistant in Anatomy, $7cc.
Myron G. Becker, Assistant Iemonstrator in Anatomy, laIalf-time.,
$300.
James F. Runner, Assistant Demonstrator in Anatomy, Half-time,
$300.
Francis E. Senear, Instructor in Dermatology and Syphilology, $9o0.
*'Herbert \W. Emerson, Assistant in Hygiene, $750.
William de Kleine, Assistant in Hygiene, $5;o.
Karm C. Kerwell, Assistant in Hygiene, $0oo.
*James G. Cumming, Assistant in Hygiene il charge Pasteur Institute, $S,6co.
*John S. Chambers, Assistant in Pasteur Institute, $5co.
Paul H. de Kruif, Assistant Professor of Bacteriology, $i,6oo.
John T. Connell, Assistant in Bacteriology, $6oo.
Carroll D. Partridge, Assistant in Bacteriology, $6oo.
L. Coleman Ludlnm, Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, $6oo.:George Lutz, Jr., Laboratory Attendant and Accountant, $9o0.
*J. D. Flannagan, Laboratory Attendant, $6on.
Frank N. Wilson, Instructor in Internal Medicine, $900.
Quinter 0. Gilbert, Instructor in Internal Medicine, $900.
Harrv B. Schmidt, Instructor in Internal Medicilne, $900.
A*ppointments preceded by a (*) date from July i, I915; all others from
October I, 1915.




JULY MEETING, 1915


257


Albert H. Beifeld, Instructor in Pediatrics, $900.
*Florence Parsons, Stenographer, Internal Medicine, $6co.
Mark Marshall, Instructor in Therapeutics and 'Materia Medica,
$900o.
Maurice I. Smith, Instructor in Pharmacology, $I,ooo.
Theophil Klingmann, Demonstrator of Diseases of Nervous System,
$500.
*Jennie Ross, Stenographer, Neurology, $600.
Robert H. Haskell, Instructor in Diseases of the Nervous System,
without salary from the University.
Harold S. Hulbert, Assistant in Diseases of the Nervous System,
without salary from the University.
Henrietta Calhoun, Assistant in Diseases of the Nervous System,
$50.
Frederick Loomis, Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, $I,200.
Rudolph Bartholomew, Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology,
$900.
Leslie Bottsford, Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, $900.
George Slocum, Instructor in Ophthalmology, $I,ooo.
Robert W. Selby, Instructor in Refraction,.$I,ooc.
G. E. Clay, Assistant in Ophthalmology, $500.
*Grace F. Raikes, Stenographer in the Department of Ophthalmology, $540.
Jacob Wendel, Instructor in Otolaryngology, $9oo.
Roy A. Barlow, Demonstrator in Otolaryngology, $50o.
Carl V. Weller, Instructor in Pathology, $1,200.
Otis M. Cope, Instructor in Physiology, $I,300.
*Bessie A. Parsons, Assistant in Roentgenology, $540.
Conrad Georg, Jr., Demonstrator of Surgery, $5oe.
Charles L. Washburne, Instructor in Orthopedic Surgery, $Soo.
Frederick R. Waldron, First Assistant in Surgery, $r50.
William A. Hoyt, Instructor in Surgery, $1,200.
*Louise E. Brucklacher, Clerk in the Department of Surgery, $60o.
Additional Instructor in Surgery, $goo.
Harry M. Malejan, Clinical Demonstrator of Surgery, $500.
*Edna M. Zahn, Stenographer in Department of Surgery, $480.
George D. Sutton, Surgical Interne, without salary.
Rollan W. Kraft, Surgical Interne, without salary.
J. H. Hays, Assistant in Genito-Urinary Surgery, without salary.
Elsa S. Fritz, Stenographer in the Department of Otolaryngology,
vice Stella Bosworth, resigned as of September I, $480.
* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, I915; all others from
October i, 1915.




258


JULY MEETING, 19I5


Chemical Laboratory
Chester S. Schoepfle, Research Assistant in Organic Chemistry, $600.
Erwin H. Fleck, Teaching Assistant in Organic Chemistry, $400.
Robert L. Perkins, Teaching Assistant in Organic Chemistry, $400.
John H. Schmidt, Laboratory Assistant in Organic Chemistry, $200.
James D. Tod'd, Lecture Assistant in Organic Chemistry, $200.
John O'Hara, Third Dispensing Assistant in Chemical Laboratory,
$500o.
Robert J. Carney, Instructor in Analytical Chemistry, $I,600.
Harry N. Cole, Instructor in Analytical Chemistry, $I,600.
Robert K. McAlpine, Instructor in Analytical Chemistry, $1,300.
David M. Lichty, Associate Professor of General Chemistry, $2,100.
William J. Hale, Associate Professor of General Chemistry, $2,I00.
William G. S'meaton, Assistant Professor of General Chemistry,
$2,000.
Floyd E. Bartell, Instructor in General and Physical Chemistry,
$I,6oo.
James E. Harris, Instructor in General and Physical Chemistry,
$I,400.
Louis T. Anderegg, Acting Instructor in General Chemistry, $800.
Lee H. Cone, Associate Professor of Organic Chemistry, $2,200.
Additional for assistants in Organic Chemistry, $200.
Law School
Edgar N. Durfee, Professor of Law, $3,000.
John B. Waite, Professor of Law, $3,000.
Willard T. Barbour, Professor of Law, $2,500.
Grover C. Grismore, Instructor in Conveyancing, $1,200.
Elizabeth Beal Steere, Assistant Librarian, $I,Ioo.
*Volney A. Chapin, Assistant in Law Library, $90o.
*Jessie Hurd, Stenographer to Dean, $800.
Lawrence Maxwell, Lecturer on Legal Ethics, $300.
Dallas Boudeman, Lecturer on Statute Law, $600.
Edward S. Rogers, Lecturer on the Law of Trademarks, $200.
Clarence A. Lightner, Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence, $350.
George L. Canfield, Lecturer on Admiralty Law, $350.
Frank F. Reed, Lecturer on Copyright Law, $200.
College of Pharmacy
Alviso B. Stevens, Professor of Pharmacy, $2,700.
Clifford C. Glover, Instructor in Pharmacy, $I,oo0.


* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July i, I915; all others from
October i, I9I5.




JULY MEETING, 1915


259


Robert E. Morse, Assistant in Food and Drug Analysis, $200.
Emmert H. Woodhouse, Assistant in Pharmacy, $200.
Earl V. Rice, Assistant in Pharmacy, $200.
Herbert 'W. Emerson, Assistant in Pharmacy (see also Medical
School), $200.
Homewopathic Medical School
George I. Naylor, Instructor in Surgery and Clinical Surgery, $I,3oo., Instructor in Experimental Pathogenesis, $I,2oo.
Camp C. Thomas, Assistant in Roentgenology, $200.
Additional for assistants, $2C0.
*Mary E. Audette, Clerk in Homoeopathic Hospital, $90c.
Floyd R. Town, Assistant in Internal Medicine, $300.
Curtis D. Pillsbury, First Assistant in Surgery, $300.
Howard H. Holcombe, Second Assistant in Surgery and Interne in
Homoeopathic Hospital (with keep), $Ioo.
Milton A. Darling, First Assistant in Gynecology and Obstetrics,
$300.
Harry H. Hammel, Second Assistant in Gynecology and Obstetrics
and Interne in Homoeopathic Hospital (with keep), $Ioo.
Robert S. Ideson, First Assistant in Otology, Ophthalmology, Rhinology and Laryngology, $300.
Robert H. Creswell, Second Assistant in Otology, Ophthalmology,
Rhinology and Laryngology, and Interne in Homoeopathic Hospital (with keep), $00o.
College of Dental Surgery
Russell W. Bunting, Professor of Dental Pathology and Histology,
$3,000.
Robert B. Howell, Instructor in Comparative Anatomy and Crown
and Bridge Work, $600.
Elmer L. Whitman, Instructor in Prosthetic Technics, $I,400.
Frank C. Cole, Instructor in Clinical Dentistry, $I,700.
Milton T. Watson, Lecturer on Orthodontia, $60o.
Chalmers J. Lyons, Professor of Oral Surgery and Consulting
Dentist to University Hospital, $3,500.
Frank R. Woods, Instructor in Orthodontia, $500.
Herbert S. Bailey, Instructor in Clinical Dentistry, $I,5o0.
Alfred J. Schroeder, Instructor in Clinical Dentistry, $1,400.
Ralph M. McCormick, Assistant in Applied Physics and Chemistry,
$300.
* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, I915; all others from
October i, I915.




260


JULY MEETING, I915


Other Divisions of the University
Mrs. Myra B. Jordan, Dean of Women (with Professorial Rank),
$2,500.
Alexander G. Ruthven, Professor of Zoology and Director of the
Museum of Zoology, $2,500.
*Frederick M. Gaige, Assistant in the Museum, $750.
*Crystal Thompson, Assistant in the Museum, $8oo.
*Helen T. Gaige, Assistant in the Museum, $550.
*Harry C. Fortner, Assistant to keep; Museum open Sunday and
holiday afternoons, at 40 cents, per hour, $6o.
George A. May, Assistant Profes'sor of Physical Training and Director of the Waterman Gymnasium, $2,400. 
W. M. MicKee, Student Assistant in Waterman Gymnasium, $Ioo.
Additional allowance for Extension Lectures, $2,000.
*Daisie M. Andrus, Clerk and Stenographer University Health
Service, $6oc.
*Bertha Looker, Nurse, University Health Service ($80 per month),
$960.
*Elizabeth Price, Nurse, University Health Service (9 months at
$8o per month), from October I, I9I5, $720.
*Gordon A. Bergy, Pharmacist, University Health Service, $550.
-* -   --, Technical Assistant, University Health Service,
$550.
*Beulah B. Davis, Secretary to the President, $I,Ioo.
*John Axelson, Assistant Bookkeeper, $90o.
*Jerome Van Arman, Clerk in Purchasing Department, $900.
*Adeline Boaz, Stenographer in Purchasing Department, $600.
*Lee Coulter, Stores Clerk, $goo.
*Robert A. Campbell, Treasurer, $3,00o.
<*Mabel H. Chapman, Clerk in Graduate School, $700.
41Charles P. Drury, Assistant Physician, University Health Service,
$2000.
R. A. Ambler, Instructor in Waterman Gymnasium, vice W. W.
Spangler, $800.
*Marjorie Delavan, Stenographer to Dean of Women (to date from
September I), rate of $6o0.
* Appointments preceded by a (*) date from July I, I915; all others from
October i, 1915.




OCTOBER MEETING
UNIVERSIT'Y OV MICHIGANN, 
ANN ARBOR, OCTOBER 15, 1915.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io A. M. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore,
and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Sawyer and
Regent Clements, who later took their seats.
The minutes for the meeting of July 22, I915, were approved as submitted to the members of the Board in proof
with minor changes on pages 221, 228, and 236.
Regent Clements took his seat.
The matter of changes in the administration of the reading room of the Alumni Memorial Hall (see pages 167 and
221) on motion of Regent Leland was referred to Regent
Gore and Librarian Bishop, with power, except with respect
to the question of additional salary for the Curator. Should
the question of such salary arise, the committee was requested to report its opinion to the Board.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Clements, and in accordance with
a report signed August 19 by a committee consisting of
Dean Effinger, Dean Guthe, and Professor Shepard, the
Board directed that the South Wing be remodeled for the
use of the Departments of Romance Languages and Landscape Design, that Rooms 1ot and 102 in University Hall,
now used by the Latin Department, should be remodeled
for the use of the Graduate School, and that Rooms o10
and 103 in the North Wing should be remodeled into a
single room and be assigned to the. Latin Department. The
Regents appropriated the sum of $5,o67 for the remodeling
of the building in accordance with the above re-assilgnment
of space, and $1,580 for the equipment.




262


OCTOBER MEETING, 1915


The following report was received from Professor Demmon, upon the matter referred to him at the special June
meeting (see page 183).
Since names serve as distinguishing marks, it is important, in dealing with such large and ever increasing numbers, that these names be as full and as permanent as possible. To this end all matriculants should be required to
give their full names (initials and nicknames to be avoided) at the time of registration. When once a name has
been entered upon the records, no change should be permitted in any part of the name, especially when such change
would necessitate cross-references in alphabeting. (The
filling out of an initial or other abbreviation should be allowed.)  In exceptional cases, requests should be treated
as follows:
I. The desired change should be sanctioned by a Court of
Record; or
2. Should be approved by the Board of Regents after a
full statement of the reasons therefor.
In the latter case, I would suggest that the President of
the University, the Secretary of the Board, and the Editor of the General Catalogue act as a committee to ascertain the facts, in each instance, and report them to the
Board. I would further suggest that the Secretary of the
Board be empowered to arrange for the proper instruction in this matter of every candidate at the time of matriculation.
On motion of Regent Beal, Professor Demmon's report
was accepted and his recommendations were adopted as the
rule of the Regents in such cases.
Regent Beal reported that 42.I9 acres of the White estate wood-land (see page 221) had been purchased September I, for $8,438, the seller agreeing to take care of this
year's taxes.
Regent Beal further reported against the purchase at
present of the property at 237 S. Ingalls St., Ann Arbor.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Beal's report in'these
two matters was approved and adopted.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the question of acquiring property at the corner of Ingalls St. and North University Ave. was referred to a committee consisting of Regent
Beal and Regent Clements.




OCTOBER 3lfEETINi      G, 1915


263
1)


Regent Leland reported that he had ordered repairs on
the Phillips Scholarship properties in Philadelphia (see page
227) to a total cost of between $9oo and $I,ooo, which repairs would place the property in good condition for rental.
The expense of these repairs is to be borne out of the accumulation in the Phillips Scholarship fund. On motion of
Regent Clements, the report of Regent Leland was approved
and adopted.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following report of
the Executive Committee was adopted and approved:To the Honorable Board of Regenlts:At the July meeting of the Regents, there was referred
to the Executive Committee, with power, the question
whether the lantern-slide shop, conducted by.Miss Dunbar
and Mr. Boyce in the basement of the Pharmacology and
Physiology Building, should be allowed to solicit work
from other universities and colleges.
After considering the question, your committee begs
leave to report that they have allowed the above-named
parties to solicit work by letters and circulars from laboratories and other universities and colleges, it being understood that the University is to receive twenty per cent of the
gross charges for work secured in this way.
Respectfully submitted,
JUNIUS E.. Bi;AL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
Executive Committee
August I9, I915
A report was received from the Hospital Committee of
the University Hospital in the matter of providing new
quarters for the Maternity Ward (see page 230). On motion of Regent Hubbard, the recommendation of this committee was referred to the Committee on the General Hospital Plan, namely, Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements, and
Regent Hanchett (see page 189).
Regent Sawyer reported for himself and the Secretary
that they had approved the appointment of an additional
stenographer and clerk in the College of Dental Surgery,
in accordance with authority given the committee (see page




264


OCTO7BER IlJEETIJNG, 1915


237). The committee recommended the appointment of
Katherine Keelan as such clerk, with salary of $48o per
year to date from October I. On motion of Regent Sawyer,
the Board approved the report and added $360 to the budget
of the Dental College for the salary involved.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, J. J. Albert Rousseau
was appointed Assistant Professor of Architecture for the
University year 1915-1016, at the salary of $I,700 for the
year.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Secretary was directed to take up with the Attorney General the question
whether the Regents had an insurable interest in the State
Psychopathic Hospital building, and if it was the opinion
of the Attorney General that there was such insurable interest, the Secretary was further directed to arrange for adequate fire insurance on the building, if possible under the
University's blanket policy.
Regent Leland presented the report of Treasurer Robert
A Campbell for the year 1914-1915, and stated that the report had been duly audited by D. W. Springer, Certified
Public Accountant. On motion of Regent Leland, the report was accepted and adopted, and ordered printed as the
Regents' report to the Governor of the State. The report
will be found as Appendix A in the Proceedings of this
meeting.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board set aside the sum
of $445.88 to cover the University's share of the cost of
paving Geddes Avenue.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Board in Control of Athletics, the
Regents directed that the outdoor physical education fees
bf five certain students be returned to them.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution
was adopted:WHEVREAS, This Board recognizes the great value to the
University and to its students of the building proposed to
be constructed by the Michigan Union; and it being the
understanding that title to this property be vested in the
University, therefore, it is
Resolved, That the heating and lighting facilities of the
University be used in heating and lighting said building,




OCTOBER MEETING, 1915


265


when constructed, until such time as this Board shall determine otherwise, and that the expense of constructing the
necessary tunnel, steam and electric connections be paid
out of the general funds of the University.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside not
to exceed $200 for the traveling expenses of Librarian \W.
W\. Bishop in visiting various libraries as part of the study
of plans for the new University Library.
A communication was received from the Superintendent
of Grounds, Mr. Marks, calling attention to the necessity
for additional storm sewerage in the vicinity of the Heating
Plant. This communication was referred, with power, to
the Buildings and Grounds Committee and Regent Beal,
Regent Beal and Regent Clements not voting.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that
employees whose duties are principally in the care or repair
of the various buildings shall be exclusively responsible to
the Buildings and Grounds Department.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the question of reducing
the number of vouchers required in the payment of the University's obligations was referred to a committee consisting
of Regent Leland, the Secretary, and the Treasurer for consideration and report to the Regents.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board voted that in
accordance with the recommendation of the President, Professor Alfred H. Lloyd be appointed Dean of the Graduate
School at the salary of $I,ooO in addition to his present salary as Professor, this appointment to date from October
I, I915.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board voted that
the matter of compensation to Professor Wenley and Professor Ziwet for services rendered bv them to the Graduate
School at the opening of the year be referred to the Executive Committee with power.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted that
Professor Edward I-I. Kraus, Acting Dean of the Summer
Session, be made permanent Dean, with the usual salary of
$500 per annum.
A communication was received from Professor A. "V.
H-ewlett specifying certain possible actions of the Regents




266


OCTOBER ilIEETING, 1r915


which would in his judgment strengthen appreciably the
work in his Department. The Regents voted that the salary
of Dr. Frank N. Wilson should be increased for the present
University year from $900 to $1,200. The Board approved
all the other recommendations of Dr. H-ewlett with the understanding that these should be carried out in due course, in
general as outlined by l)r. Hewlett in his communication.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board permitted Mr. ().
F. M\ead, last year a student in the Medical School, to take
a conditional examination this y ear without the payment of
a fee.
The Secretary gave notice that there had been received
from an anonymous donor the sum of $225 for a scholarship,
and that the officials of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts had recommended that Miss Dorothy Bastin be
appointed to the special scholarship thus created. The Regents accepted this gift with thanks and appointed Miss
B:astin accordingly.
On motion of Regent Gore, Regent Hubbard was appointed to initial the October vouchers and Superintendent
Keeler was appointed to initial the vouchers for November,
December, and January next.
On motion of Regent I-Hubbard, the President and the
Secretary were authorized to take such steps as they might
deem necessary to secure the importation of goods now ordered abroad on the University's account.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the two following resolutions were adopted: 
Resolved, (i) That no copy nor duplicate of a teacher's
diploma or teacher's certificate shall be given except to the
original holder and upon satisfactory proof of loss or destruction.
(2) That the applicant shall prove his identity by a
certificate from  the County Commissioner of Schools,
or equivalent official, where the applicant resides, and to the
satisfaction of the Board.
(3) That the applicant shall prove that he is in good
standing at the time of application by at least two wellknown members of his profession.
(4) That a fee for a duplicate teacher's diploma and
certificate, either or both, shall be one dollar, to be sent




OCTOBER M EETING, 1 9 15


267


with the application, and that the diploma or certificate so
issued shall be marked "Duplicate."
Resolved, (I) That no copy nor duplicate of diploma or
certificate of graduation, from the Nurses' Training School
connected with either hospital of the University shall be
given except to the original holder and upon satisfactory
proof of loss or destruction.
(2) That the applicant shall prove his identity by a
certificate from the County Clerk where the applicant resides, and to the satisfaction of the Board.
(3) That the applicant shall prove that he is in good
standing at the time of application by at least two wellknown members of his profession.
(4) That a fee for a duplicate shall be one dollar, to
be sent with the application, and that the diploma or certificate so issued shall be marked "Duplicate."
The Secretary called attention to the desirability of
printing in the Proceedings in correct form the conditions
under which the Phillips Scholarships are to be conferred
(see pages 132 and 150). On motion of Regent Hubbard,
the Board directed the printing of these conditions as follows:(a) Candidates for the Phillips Scholarships shall
upon their entrance into the University be examined upon
four units of Latin, and the committee in charge may award
a scholarship to the student obtaining the highest grade; if
more than one paper reaches a satisfactory degree of excellency, more than one scholarship may be awarded at the
discretion of the committee.
Only the examination in Latin shall be absolutely required; but any student who has had preparation in two
units of Greek may elect to be examined upon them as well
as upon four units of Latin. If the combined grade of his
examinations in Greek and Latin is equal or superior to
the grade of a candidate who presents Latin only, he will be
given the preference in the awarding of the scholarships.
(b) The successful candidate or candidates shall be
required during the year of tenure to pursue each semester
one full course of four hours in Greek, and one full course
of four hours in Latin.
(c) The scholarship held by any successful candidate
may, upon application to the Committee, be renewed for a




268


OCTOBER IIEEETING, 191 


second year, provided that the applicant has attained in his
courses in Latin and Greek a grade not less than B and continues the study of both languages during his second year,
to the amount of three hours each per semester.
(d) The Committee in charge of the scholarships
shall determine, after considering the merits of the individual cases, whether it is more expedient to renew the
scholarships for a second year or to award new ones.
(e) The provisions of the will regarding the general
character of the candidates shall be observed.
The Secretary reported that he had received the following bill of sale from the Students' Christian Association,
which was accepted and ordered filed: 
Know all Men by these Presents, That the Students'
Christian Association of the University of Michigan of the
City of Ann Arbor in the County of Washtenaw and State
of Michigan, party of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of five dollars, lawful money of the United
States, to it paid by the Regents of the University of Michigan, party of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, has bargained and sold, and by these presents does grant and convey, unto the said party of the second part, its successors or assigns, all the following goods
and chattels, to wit: All the interest of said first party in
and to all and every portion of the furniture and fixtures of
every kind and nature, now in, or rightfully belonging in,
what is known as the Helen Handy Newberry Residence
Hall, which is situated in the block opposite University Hall
and between Maynard and South State Streets in said City
of Ann Arbor, which said above-described goods and chattels belong to said first party and are now in the possession
of said second party at the location above designated, To
Have and to Hold the same unto the said party of the second
part, its successors and assigns, Forever. And the said party
of the first part, for itself and its successors, does covenant
and agree to and with the said party of the second part, its
successors and assigns, to Warrant and Defend the sale hereby made of said property, goods and chattels, unto the said
party of the second part, its successors and assigns, against
all and every person or persons whatsoever. This transfer
is made upon the same conditions as was a certain deed
from said first party to said second party dated loth April,
I915.




OCTOBER MIEETING, 1915 


269


In witness whereof, said first party by authority of its
Board of Trustees, has caused its name to be affixed hereto
by its President and Secretary of its said Board of Trustees this 28th day of September, 1915, and by like authority
has caused its seal to be hereto affixed.
THlE STUDENTS' CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
By V. H. LANE, President of the Board of Trustees,
and W. H. TINKER, as Secretary of the same.
The suggestion of Ex-Regent Levi L. Barbour with
regard to the development for sale of forty-four vacant lots
in Detroit presented by him to the University some time
ago was referred, on motion of Regent Hubbard, to Regent
Leland and Regent Bulkley for consideration and report.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board directed the
payment to Albert Kahn of $i,ooo, on account for services
as architect and inspector of the Science Building.
The Secretary presented, for the Board's attorneys, a
copy of the record in the case of Mary Bancroft vs. the Regents, appealed from the Circuit Court. This was ordered
filed.
A communication from Mr. H. J. Fowler making claim
for damages due to flood water from Palmer Field was, on
motion of Regent Sawyer, referred to the Secretary and the
attorneys of the Regents, with power.
A  request was received from   the Students' Christian
Association for the use of University Hall for the Sunday
evening Association services during the year I915-I916. On
motion of Regent Hubbard this request was granted with
the understanding that the Students' Christian Association
should reimburse the University for the expense involved.
The Secretary filed the following report, which was, on
motion of Regent Clements, adopted and approved:To the Honorable Board of Regents:The undersigned begs to report for the Committee consisting of Regent Clements, Dean Cooley, Superintendent
Marks, and himself, authorized to make a contract for the
University's soft coal supply for I915-I916 (see page 154) as
follows:-Bids were received from about a dozen different
concerns and contracts were made with the lowest bidders
as follows: (a) with the W. H. W\arner Coal Company,




270


OCTOBEIR 2IE1ETINGC, 19J1


of Detroit, and the Pocahontas-Winifrede Coal Company,
of West Virginia, for I5,000 tons more or less of coal for
the main Power Plant, at a base price of $2.22 per ton, subject to certain penalties and premiums on the B. T. U. basis.
This coal is nut, pea, and slack. (b) with the Ohio and
Michigan Coal Company, of Detroit, and the Logan Coal
Company of Philadelphia, for 3,500 tons more or less of
smokeless coal for the Hospital Power Plant, at $2.85 per
ton as a base price, subject to certain penalties and premiums on the B. T. U. basis. This coal is run of mine.
Both the prices quoted above are F. O. B. Ann Arbor.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
For the Committee.
On motion of Regent Clements, the President and Secretary were authorized to take such action as they deemed
the duty of the University required in the case of Miss Clara
B. Dunn, an Assistant in Rhetoric, now a patient in the Psychopathic Hospital.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum       of $235 was
set aside for new  equipment for the Department of Economics necessitated by occupancy of additional quarters.
On motion of Regent Clements, the resolution of the
Regents appointing Professor I. N. Demmon as Curator of
Rare Books, etc. (see page i66) was rescinded. After the
rescinding of the original resolution, on motion of Regent
Clements, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That Professor I. N. Demmon be and hereby
is appointed Curator of Rare Books and Rare Manuscripts
and of the Rare Book Section of the General Library, with
responsibility to the Librarian, Mr. W. W. Bishop.
The Executive Committee presented the following, reports all of which were duly accepted an(l approved by the
Board:At the last meeting of the Board the question of the
salary of the Registrar of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts was considered and certain results
reached that proved to be unsatisfactory to the Registrar
and to embarrass the relationship between his office and the
office of the Dean of said College. At a meeting of your




OCTOBER MEETINGG, 1915


271


Committee, held July 24, it was determined to advise the
Board of Regents to fix the salary of Registrar Hall at
$3,500.00, $2,500.00 of that sum to be regarded as the salary
for his work as Registrar and such incidental teaching as
he may do, $500.00 for his work as editor of the University
Catalogue and announcements, $250.00 for his work in passing upon admissions on diploma, and $250.00 for his work
as auditor of the accounts of student organizations.
Your Committee further recommends that Professor
Hall's title be changed to that of Registrar and Professor
of Mathematics. In order to avoid confusion, it is further
recommended that the title of the Registrar of the Homoeopathic Medical School be changed to that of Recorder
of the Homoeopathic Medical School.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Your Executive Committee, at a meeting held August
18, I915, appointed Dr. Gilbert H. Taylor Instructor in the
Department of Latin ifor the next university year at a salary
of $I,ooo, in place of Professor Henry A. Sanders, who has
leave of absence for the year. This salary is to be deducted
from the salary of Professor Sanders, it being a condition
of his leave of absence that he supply a satisfactory substitute for his university work. This appointment was made
by your Committee upon the nomination cf Professor Sanders.
Your Executive Committee at a session held August
23, 1915, appointed Mr. Harley H. Bartlett, of Washington, D. C., as Acting Assistant Professor for the term
of one year in place of Dr. Henri T. A. Hus, recently
given a leave of absence for three years, the salary of Mr.
Bartlett to be the same as that provided for in the budget
for Dr. Hus, namely, $I,800. In order to secure the services
of Mr. Bartlett it was necessary that this appointment be
made during the vacation.
At the last meeting of the Regents, July 22, I915, the
sum of $I,300 was set aside from the general fund for the
expense of moving the old Psychological Laboratory and
putting it in condition for use by the Highway Engineering
Laboratory.
Upon investigation it has been found to be impracticable
to move this laboratory. Dean Cooley and Professor Riggs
have concluded that the Highway Laboratory can be accom



272


OCTOBER MlEETING, 1915


modated for a time at least in the old Power Plant, and
have asked that so much of the said $1,300 as is necessary
for that purpose, may he used in adapting a part of the old
Power Plant for the work of Highway Engineering. The
entire Power Plant has been set aside for the use of the,Mechanical Engineering Department. Professor Allen consents to the temporary use of a part of it for Highway Engineering. It should be said that the changes that must be
made for the purpose of adapting the building for the Highway Engineering work are changes that would have to be
made for work in Mechanical Engineering.
As this seemed to be an emergency case, your Executive Committee, at a meeting held August 26, I915, authorized the use of so much of the $I,300 as may be found necessary in making the changes suggested. Your Committee
asks the Regents to confirm its action.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee held September I, Ii95, your Committee authorized the Department
of Forestry to prepare and post, at the Saginaw Forestry
Farm, notices prohibiting persons from shooting, or using
firearms in any way, on said farm, and prohibiting also the
starting of fires on the property. The Committee directed
that it should be stated in such notices that the prohibition
was by the authority of The Regents of the University of
Michigan. The Committee asks that this action may be confirmed by the Regents.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee held September I, 1915, it was ordered that insurance to the extent of
$20,000 be placed upon the contents of the Martha Cook
Building, and the Committee begs to report that this was
done. It seemed to the Committee particularly desirable
that the insurance be placed upon the contents now, as there
is more than ordinary danger from fire while the building
is being made ready for use. The Committee asks that this
action be authorized by the Regents.
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 24, 1915, took action as follows:i. Mr. Albert R. Bailey, Assistant Professor of Civil
Engineering, was granted leave of absence for the first semester, 1915-1916, without salary, in order that he might
continue his connection with the appraisal of the New Jersay Public Service Corporation's electric lines. Dean Cool



OCTOBER MJEETING, 1 915


273


ey represented to your Committee that it seemed advisable
that this request be granted, as the experience that M\r. Bailey would gain by this outside work would make him more
valuable in his university work. He represented further that
just now it is possible to supply his place readily.
2. To provide for Mr. Bailey's work, your Committee appointed Mr. Norman Kirkwood Sheppard, as Instructor in Civil Engineering for the first semester at a salary
rate of $I,Ioo.oo per year. Mr. Sheppard, who is now connected with the Saginaw and Bay City Railway, Light &
Power Co., was recommended for this work by Dean Cooley
and Professor Riggs.
Dean Cooley further recommended, in order to help out
the work in Railway Engineering due to the absence of Professor Bailey, the reappointment of Mr. William H. Sellew
of the Michigan Central engineering staff as Non-Resident
Lecturer on Railway Engineering for the year I915-I916 at
$300.00, which would necessitate the use of the remainder of
Professor Bailey's salary for the first semester. A request
for the reappointment of Mr. Sellew, who lectured here two
years ago, was made in the last budget of the College of
Engineering, but was cut out before the budget was adopted. Your Committee concluded not to pass upon this request, but to refer it to the full Board.
The recommendation of Dean Cooley is attached hereto.
3. Mr. Winthrop R. Wright was appointed Instructor
in the Department of Physics in place of Mr. Glenn Alfred
Shook, resigned, at a salary of $I,ooo.oo.
4. Mr. Charles F. Meyer was appointed Instructor in
Physics for the university year I915-I916 only at a salary
of $I,ooo.oo. This appointment was made necessary by the
death of Dean Guthe. By means of this appointment and
a rearrangement of the work in the Department of Physics,
the teaching of the department can be carried for the year.
These appointments were made on the recommendation of Dean John R. Effinger of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.  His recommendation is attached
hereto.
Your Committee asks the confirmation of its action as
hereinbefore set forth, by the full Board.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board appointed Mr.
William  I.' Sellew  as Non-resident Lecturer on Railway
Engineering for the university year I9i5-1916 at the salary




274


OCTOBER MEETING, 1915


of $300 as suggested. without direct recommendation, in the
last of the reports of the Executive Committee above.
The Executive Committee further reported that by a
majority vote they had allowed the sum of $50 for an exhibit by the University in connection with the State Highway Commission at the West Michigan State Fair. This
action of the Executive Committee was approved.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board appointed
John Castelar Parker as Professor of Electrical Engineering and Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering
at the salary of $4,ooo per year, beginning with the first of
the University year I915-1916.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the title of Professor
George W. Patterson was changed to: "Professor of Engineering Mechanics."
A request of a student for a refund of the $5 outdoor
physical education fee was referred to the Board in Control
of Athletics for report at the next meeting.
Professor A. G. Ruthven informed the Regents that
the Museum had received a very valuable collection of
owls from Dr. Bryant Walker, of Detroit. On motion of
Regent Bulkley, this gift was accepted and the thanks of
the Regents were formally voted to Dr. Walker.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board voted not to
exceed $80 for the traveling expenses of Professor F. W.
Kelsey on a trip to New York and Boston in connection with
the manufacture of the plates for various publications.
Dean Cooley gave notice to the Regents that Mr. Roy
D. Chapin, President of the Hudson Motor Car Company
of Detroit, had signified his intention to maintain for three
years an annual fellowship of $5oo in Highway Engineering. On motion of Regent Hubbard, this gift was accepted
and the Secretary was directed to transmit the thanks of the
Regents to Mr. Chapin for his co-operation with this work.
On motion, the Regents took a recess until 5 P. M.




OCTOBER MEETING, 19r15


275


AFTERNOON SESSION
When the Board reassembled there were present, the
President, Regent ILeland, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard,
Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, and
Regent Gore. Absent, Regent Sawyer and Superintendent
Keeler.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board approved an
advertisement of the Graduate School in The Michigan
Alumnuis at.the cost of $15 per year.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, degrees and teachers' diplomas were
conferred as follows:BACHELOR OI1 ARTS


George Isaac Altenburg
Bess Baker
William S. Baum
Clyde John Bollinger
Fay Eugenia Brunn
Edwin Julius Busjahn
Mabel Frances Clinton
Mary Neva Creighton
Ezra Amos Deneen
John Starkweather Deubel
Isaac Marr DeVoe
Howard Sidney Doolittle
Arnold Henry Eggerth
Manley Mills Ellis
Lora Belle Evans
Sara Catherine Ewing
Erwin Henry Fleck
Albert Sylvester Foess
Wilbert Heaston Fuller
Ella May Hanawalt
Clyde Knapp Hasley


Sarah Elizabeth Hopper
Alice Elberta Johnson
William Earl Laycock
Stephen Henry Lyttle
Howard Roland Marsh
Albert Olen Olson
Mary Teresa Perkins
Howard Alexander Phelps
Roy Eugene Reindel
Harry Ralph Rice
Philip Becker Schnur
Arthur Ronald Skiles
Martin George Smith
Lila Amelia Stevenson
Ethel Taylor
Oscar Balthaser Thiel
Lillian Wallace Thompson
Ray Gilbert Vicarv
Lenda Lucile White
Sidney Morse Willis
Mabel Witzel


BACHELOR Or SCIENCE
Richard Hugh McDowell Bayley
Edgar Voorheis Beardslee      Adrian Ardie Worun
Perry S. Brundage             Stanley Paul Young




276


OCTOBER IMEETING, 1915


TEACHEIRS' DIPLOMAA
George Isaac Altenburg     Roberta Jane Kehoe
Clyde John Bollinger       Stephen Henry Lyttle
Perry S. Brundage          Sherman Martin McNair
Mabel Frances Clinton      Lila Amelia Stevenson
Ezra A. Deneen             Ethel Taylor
Isaac Marr DeVoe           Marjorie Louise Walker
Manley Mills Ellis         Mabel Witzel
Sara Catherine Ewing       Adrian Ardie Worun
Nellie A. Gregg            Lenda Lucile White
Stuart WV. Griffin
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board added $9oo to
the salary roll of the Department of Mathematics in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to provide three
additional assistants.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board added the sum of
$2,000 to the salary roll of Romance Languages to provide
two additional instructors.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board added $I,ooo to
the salary roll of the Department of Rhetoric in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts to provide an additional
instructor, and appointed George N. Fuller to the position
thus created for the university year 1915-I916.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the request of Professor Demmon, the Board appointed Mr. /W.
). Raymond as three-fourths time Instructor in English
for the year I915-I916, with salary of $825. Six hundred
dollars of this salary is provided out of the salary originally
appropriated for Professor J. S. P. Tatlock, resigned. The
remaining sum of $225 was added by vote of the Regents.
Professor Kelsey gave notice that he had received a
check from Mr. William H. Murphy for $I,ooo as his second annual payment on the gift originally reported in the
July, 1914, Proceedings, page 1035. On motion of Regent
Ieal, the thanks of the Board were directed to be transmitted to Mr. Murphy for this remittance.
On motion of Regent Beal, the application of Miss Jamie
Morgan for a loan from the I894 Class Fund was referred
to the President, with power.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the question of compensa



OCTOBER I MEETING, 1915


277.


ti-on to those nurses at the UTniversity Hospital quartered in
the Nurses' Home at the corner of Ann Street and Glen
Avenue, for damage to their property through the bursting
of a water pipe, October c, was referred to the Secretary,
with power.
On motion of Regent I-Hubbard and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, degrees were conferred as folfows:
BACHELOR OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Raymond Severin Hemmingsen
BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURE
Dixon Brace Kellogg         Carl Edward Macomber
On motion of Regent Beal, Miss Ella Bliss and Harold
M. Johnston were each appointed to a Henry Strong Scholarship for the current academic year, with stipend of $250
to each.
The following report of the Executive Committee was
filed and on motion of Regent Hubbard was approved:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held October
6, 1915, appointed Mr. Edvard Leerdrup Eriksen as Instructor in Engineering Mechanics for one year at a salary of
$I,ooo in place of Mr. H. F. French, who recently resigned
his instructorship. Mr. French was paid $I,500.00. It became necessary to fill the vacancy at once in order that the
work in the department might be carried on.
Dean Cooley's recommendation is attached to this communication.
The Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
The request of Mr. J. Gwyn Jones for a concession in
fees for the present semester was referred to the Secretary,
with power.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the President was authorized to spend as much time as in his judgment his other
duties would permit in furtherance of the Michigan Union
building campaign.




278


OCTOBER MEETING, I9I5


The following communication was received through
Dean Coolev:To the Regents:GENTLEMMEN:  A committee, consisting of Chas. F.
Brush and A. A. Robinson, both of the class of I869, J. B.
Davis, treasurer, with the initiative and efficient work of
Professor Henry E. Riggs, have collected subscriptions for
a memorial tablet to Professor De Volson Wood, founder
of the College of Engineering, and would like your permission to place this tablet in the Denison Archway of the
Engineering Building; the design, inscription, and all the
work, to be under the direction and with the approval of
Dean M. E. Cooley.
J. B. DAVIS
A. A. ROBINSON
C. F. BRUSH
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the acceptance of the
proposed memorial was referred to a committee consisting
of the President, Dean Cooley, a Regent to, be appointed by
the President, and Professor Herbert Cross.
The President appointed Regent Hubbard as Regent
member of this committee.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted not to exceed $350 for the construction of a runniing track adjacent
to the Waterman Gymnasium.
The request of Superintendent Draper of the University
Hospital for the appointment of a chief clerk at the hospital was referred to the President and Secretary for report.
Communications from Director E. D. Campbell of the
Chemical Laboratory with regard to the question of professional practice by members of the teaching staff in the various branches of chemistry, on motion of Regent Hubbard
was referred to the Regents Committees on the College 'of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture for consideration and report.
A communication was received from Professor N illiam
H. Hobbs stating that the Geology Department and Dean
Effinger recommended that pending the appointment of an
instructor in Geography for the second semester, the work
in Geography should be carried by Assistant Professor
Scott, reinforced byN special lectures by well-known geog 




OCTOBER MEETING, J1915


279


raphers, compensation for these lectures to be provided out
of the salary originally appropriated for the instructor in
Geography during the first semester. On a motion of Regent Beal the plan was approved.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Dean of the Summer Session, Certificates in Embalming and Sanitary Science were granted
to the following:John Howard Berk          Ernest Theodore Riemann
French Samuel M. Durst     Harley A. Voorhees
Earle Champion Garrett     Eva L. Wilson
Ernest Lester Harper
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board granted the
request of Mr. Edward M. Grinnell, Instructor in Rhetoric
in the College of Engineering, for permission to enroll in
the Law School and to pay a single fee for each single year's
complete course in law, even though Mr. Grinnell's other
duties might require him to take several years for the completion of the required work. Mr. Grinnell's further request to be excused from the payment of the outdoor physical education fee was referred to the Board in Control of
Athletics for report.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following- the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical
School, the degree of Doctor of Mledicine was conferred
upon Donald Burr Marsh and Edwin Carl Ganzhorn, an(
Certificates of Graduation from the IHomoopathic Hospital
Training School for Nurses were voted to the following: 
Bya Chapman               Bessie Lewis
Elizabeth Buck            Florence E. Penny
Ida Irene Clemo
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
Cavanaugh & Burke, Attorneys, and the Secretary the cuestion of sewer connections to the sewer built many years acgo
by the University and now lying in part between Washington and Huron Streets in land acquired by the University.
The attorneys and the Secretary were instructed to have
such agreement as might be proper signed by the owners
of the property from which private sewers connect to the
University sewer.




280


OCTOBER MEETING, G1915


On motion of Regent Bulkley, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, degrees
were voted as follows:JURIS DOCTOR
Marguerite Kamehaokalani Ashford
Russell Dean Calkins         Samuel Shapero
Buell McCash                 Sydney Homer Smith
LeRoy Gardiner Pilling


BACHELOR 01 LAWS 


Helmuth Frederick Arps
George Andrew Bois
John Randolph Clarke
Eugene Solis Cohn
John Stewart Crawford
Paul Harvey Cunningham
Nathaniel H. Goldstick
Willis Bligh Goodenow
Charles Whitaker Gore
Wallace Fuller Judd
Percy Morgan Lovett


W'alter Ingles M\IcKenzie
Oscar Leonard Olson
Ward Harrison Peck
Julian Paris Rodgers
Rayburn Lackland Russell
Michael Mackay Ryan
Adolfo Asuncion Scheerer
Oscar Vern Seed
James Thomas Sloan
Bourke Cochran Wilmot
James Jacob Wolfe


A communication from    Professor Ilildner asking that
authority be vested to meet the special needs of students
from foreign countries whose remittances have been interfered with by the present war was referred to the President
and Secretary, with power to act in individual cases.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board made the following appointments to fellowships in accordance with the
recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate
School:STATE COLLTt GE  LLOWSHIPS, $300
Miss Alice E. Richard, A.B., Adrian College, I915, instead of Miss Etha B. Smith, and
Mr. John J. DeBoer, A.B., Hope College, 1915, instead
of Mr. John Tillema.
BUHL CLASSICAL IELLOWSHIPS
Mr. Henry Jewell Bassett, A.B., Maryville College, I904;
A.B., Princeton University, 1905; A.M., Maryville College,




OCTOBER MEETING, 191I5


28f


1907, with a stipend of $50.00, payable when he reenters
the University.
Miss Margaret Travis Gourley, A.B., University of Illinois, I909, with a stipend of $300.00.
Mr. Ben Edwin Perry, A.B., 1915, with a stipend of
$100.00.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate
School, degrees were voted as follows:MASTER Or SCIENCE
John Sharpe Chambers, B.S., Kentucky State University,
I913.
Robert Spencer Rockwood, B.S., Denison University, 1907
Emory Walter Sink, A.B., 1911
Albert J. Walcott, A.B., I914
William Robert Webb, B.CH.E., I914
MASTER Or ARTS
Lyman Lloyd Bryson, A.B., I9o1
Adah Mae Caldwell, A.B., 1912
William Hawthorne Cooper, A.B., Hope College, 1903, A.M.,
ibid, 19o6
James Ethelbert Davis, M.D., Detroit College of Medicine,
1896
Robert Darwin Ford, A.B., Hillsdale College, I9II
Emelyn Elizabeth Gardner, A.B., University of Chicago, I9OI
Jerry Ignatius Harrington, A.B., I914
Roberta Jane Kehoe, A.B., 1911
Albert Eugene Lampen, A.B., Hope College, 1911
John James McElree, A.B., Westminster College, I890;
A.B., 1911
Edward Wills McFarland, A.B., 1913
John Chalmers Montgomery, A.B., I914
Robert Gordon Rodkey, A.B., 1914
Leroy W. Stewart, A.B., Albion College, 1911
Bertha Emogene Thompson, A.B., 1910
Herbert George Titt, B.S., Washburn College, 1902
Ralph Landon Ward, A. B., Washburn College, I898
Regent Hanchett and Regent Leland were excused.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following appointments by the Secretary to positions for which compensation




282            OCTOBER MEETING, I915
had been provided in the budget were approved and confirmed by the Regents.    All appointments are for the year
1915-1916 unless otherwise stated.
Dr. Florence Chadwick, assistant to Dr. Pratt in the
making of physical examinations at the opening of the University for a period not to exceed ten days, with salary at
the rate of $Io per day.
Harry C. Fortner, Assistant in the Museum   for 2~/2
hours on Sunday afternoons and on the afternoon of each
holid'ay, with salary at the rate of $I for each afternoon.
Maurice I. Smith, Assistant in Pharmacology for the
Summer Session, with salary of $Ioo.
Roy W. Pryer, Assistant in the Hygienic Laboratory,
vice William DeKleine and K. C. Kerwell, with salary of
$750.
Narayan S. Hardikar, Assistant in the Hygienic Laboratory, vice K. C. Kerwell, with salary of $250.
Frank C. Wheeler, Assistant in Mineralogy, with salary of $200.
Remington Ellis, Assistant in Mineralogy, with salary
of $I00.
Lewis S. Ramsdell, Assistant in Mineralogy, with salary of $Ioo.
Albert B. Peck, Assistant in Mineralogy, with salary
of $500.
Myron G. Becker, Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy,
half time, with salary of $350.
James F. Runner, Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy.
half time, with salary of $350.
Lynne A. Hoag, Assistant in Anatomy, with salary of
$600.
Stanford Z. Rothschild, Assistant in Mathematics, with
salary of $300.
Edward J. Martin, Assistant in Physics, vice E. F. Barker, with salary of $6o0.
Robert F. Paton, Assistant in Physics, vicc A. H. Stang,
with salary of $600.
Olin D. Parsons, Assistant in Physics, with salary of
$600.
James M. Cork, Assistant in Physics, half time, with
salary of $300.
F. C. Mock, Assistant in Physics, half time, with salary
of $300




OCTOBER AMEETING, 1915


283


Joseph G. Wolber, Assistant in Physics, vice R. C. Allman, with salary of $600.
Clyde E. Cooper, Assistant in Geology and Geography,
with salary of $400.
Chester W. Clark, Assistant in Geology, vice Stanley
P. Young, with salary of $200.
On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. W. L. Schurz was appointed Instructor in History for the University year 9II5 -1916 at the salary of $I,ooo as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon Harold Jay Thorne and Albin Nyquist.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon Martha
Marie Madtson, and certificates of graduation from   the
University Hospital Training School for Nurses were voted
to Mae Louise Pierson and Vera Whitlock.
On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. Raymond F. Wafer was
appointed Instructor in Anatomy for the University year
1915-191I6 at the salary of $9)oo, as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent lHubbard, the sun   of $200 was
added to the salary of the teaching assistant in the automobile laboratory of the Mechanical Engineering Department, making the total salary $8oo, and Walter E. Lay was
appointed to this assistantship for the year 1915-I916.
On motion of Regent IHubbard, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Engineering, degrees were conferred as follows: 
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
George Leo Gerard
BACHELOR F1 CIVIL ENGINEERING
Eugene Sidney Bigelow       Willard Coit Holmes
Harold Jacob Bogardus       Gie Seng Ling
Charles Theodore Fuetterer  Robert Scott Ripley




284


OCTOBER MEETING, I91i


BACHELOR OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
William Rambusch Bagger     Samuel LeRoy Thomas
Ralph Burbank Dibble,BACHELOR OF CHEMIICAL ENGINEERING
William Henry Bond          John Pugh Roberts
Ralph Waldo Brown           Harold Francis Wood
Gung Yi Cheng
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following- resolution
w\as adopted: 
Resolved, That the Regents of the University of Michigan invite the Society to Promote the Science of Management to hold its fourth meeting of the current year in Ann
Arbor in May, I916.
lFurther, on motion of Reg-ent H-ubbard, the Board authorized an expenditure of not to exceed $1roo for such printing and other expenses as may le necessary in connection
with the meetingo of the Societyr if the invitation is accepted.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise stated.
On motion, the Board adjourned to November 2, at
8 P. M.
STIIITxr.;I\' W. S r 'IT,
Secretary.




APPENDIX A TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
OCTOBER 15, 1915
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE TREASURER OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:Gentleen: Herewith I submit mv annual report for the fiscal year ending
June 30, I9I5.
Very respectfully,
R. A. CAMNPrprr,.L, Treasurer.
CON.DENSED STATEMENT GENERAL, SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS.


I


Receipts


Disbursements...............


Balance   July   I,   I91 4...............................
State Treasurer:
3%   Mill Tax  (General Fund).......................
University  Interest  Fund...........................
Special  A ppropriations...................:........
Special Appropriations, Transfers..................
Building Fund (accumulation savings).............
Students' Fees and Miscellaneous Sourcos:
G eneral  F und.....................................
Special Appropriations.............................
Building Fund (accumulation of savings)..........
Balance  June  30,  I915...........................


$   I95,769.Co


i,O  7,8oo.c0...............
38,479.6...............
329,000oo................
228.7;...............
83,03oo.0o...............
842,367,.7c...........................      $1,894,457.42...............      3384,3!91.215.............3,I 90.o     0...............      225,606.44
$.'.o.6_ 6l. TT  $., 07.61.. TT


DETAILED STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND
Student                    Disburse-1
Fees        Receipts        Stre-       Refunds
Balance  July  I.  1914.........................  $  I58,923.5C........................
State Treasurer, 3/8 mill tax................ 1,o 07,800..........................
State  Treasurer,  Univ.  Interest...............    3,479.63.........................
Student Fees (Deparlntenltal):
Literary......................     I41,850.60.......................  $  4,963.oc
Engineering..................     I13,992.60........................      4,395.50
MIedical......................       14,263.20.......................          250.0O
Law...........,778.4...............                                                59.
Dental.......................      30,2952.2'                                   886
Fomnceopathic (Medical)....764.40                |....5....... I5.6o
Pharm  acy....................       7.co-.6o........                           T.20




286


OCTOBER MEETING, 1915






I


-


Combined Courses............
Graduate.....................
University Extension.........
Summer School, Literary.....
Summer School, Engineering...
Summer School, Medical......
Summer School, Law.........
Summer School, Graduate.....
Summer School, Pharmacy....
Summer School, Biological Sta.
Embalming Department.......
Student Fees, (Laboratories, etc.)
Barbour Gymnasium..........
Barbour Gymnasium-Summer.
Botanical Laboratory.........
Chemical Laboratory.........
Camp Fees...................
Change of Elections..........
Clinical Laboratory...........
Diplom as.....................
Drawing Boards..............
Demonstration Courses.......
Delayed Elections............
Delayed Registration.........
Dental Laboratory............
Electrical Engineering........
Embalming Diplomas.........
Embalming Tickets...........
H ygiene......................
H istology.....................
Key Deposits.................
L atin.........................
Mechanical Laboratory.......
M ineralogy...................
O steology....................
Practical Anatomy............
Pathology....................
Physiology...................
Pharmacology................
Political Economy............
Physics.......................
R hetoric......................
Surveying...................
Special Physics...............
Teacher's Diplomas..........
Theses.......................
Waterman Gymnasium........
Waterman Gymnasium, Summet
Zoology......................
Special Examination..........


Student
Fees
1,924.00
I2,485.80
2,742.00
I 3;,184.60
7,585.00
2,364.00
5,543.60
4,57 1.50
369.0.0
1,179.00
851.oo




Receipts....................................




I


Disbursements


I


i..    I................
395J,3t6.51............




I


I


465.oc
93.0o


)
)


I.


1,954.00..........
29,335.00............
G960o.............
28.00............
40.Co............
12,440.00...........
50100.............
3,425.00.
3,425.0o............
I43oo............
7500...........
3,260.oo............
447.00............
24.0o0............
I20.00............
5,995.00............
2, I I4.CO............
I,o0 3.o c............
7o.oo0............
6,590.00............
282.00..........
69g.oo............
3,68o.oo............
1,305.00............
510.00............
469.00............
412.00............
I,235.00...........
210.00............
68.50...........
436.co............
1,350.o0............
3,946.00............
I I7.00............
I,720.00............
130.00
86.4.62. eo...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................


Refunds
25.00
844.90
24.Co
342.75
82.00
7.75
739.50
I45.75
20.50
192.50
605.00
4o.oo
4.00
4I.00
4,127.67
10.00
1.00
260.00
393.00
25.00
3.00
5.00
20.00
5.0o.........................  8o8.8
291.00
1,03;7.00
20.00
8o.oo
I2.80
459.00
21.00
1.50
32.00
152.80
5.00
6.oo
6oo.oo
10.50
50.00.........................
'............


I








OCTOBELR IEETTING,.I9I                  2


287


Miscellaneous Sources:
Anatomical Material..........
Buildings and Grounds.......
Buildings and Grounds, Pay Roll
Botanical Garden.............
B indery......................
Botany.......................
Contingent...................
Chemical Pay Roll............
Circulation and Sleep.........
Care of Teams...............
Chemical Laboratory.........
Civil Engineering.............
Dental Supplies...............
Dental Department...........
Dental Department, Pay Roll..
Engineering Shops...........
Economics Printing Fund.....
Engineering Mechanics.......
Engineering Pay Roll.........
Eng. Apparatus and Furniture.
F uel..........................
*Fire Insurance...............
General Catalogue...........
General Library..............
Graduate Fellowship Pay Roll.
'General Pay Roll.............
Health  Service...............
Heating Supplies............
H ygiene......................
Homoeopathic Hospital......
Homceopathic Hosp., Pay Roll.
Interest......................
Janitors' Supplies.............
Janitors' Pay Roll............
Keys, Buildings...............
Keys, Engineering............
Keys, Univ. Hospital..........
Keys, Master.................
Laundry......................
L ights........................
Literary Pay Roll............
Miscellaneous Printing.......
Michigan Tree Bulletin.......
Mechanical Engineering.....
Marine Engineering.........
Materia Medica...............
Nurses' Diplomas............
Ophthalmology...............
Organization and Pub. Alumnii.
Printing  Plant..............
Pasteur Institute..............


Student 
Fees       Receipts
Fees
109.88...........
1,862.40...........
50.85...........
23.32............
67.9 1............
1.20............
458.73............
20.00.............
36.42...........
125.56............
12.72.............83.........
I4,I70.8I............
212.94..........
15.00............
349-I3............
1,080.83............
4.05............
I I0.0......
8.0o...........
2,315.70...........
54.00............
28.I0............
76.82............
90.00............
71.30............
439.00............
25.20............
3i2.6..........
53,561.76............
4.20............
3,8I7.08............
28.25............
398.66.......
302.00...
91.00.........
3.0o............
8o.0oo............
1,359.87.......
35I.4I...........
I.4...........
550.43...........
167.95...........
78.o8.........
210.00..........
13.00......
78.00...........
6.43...........
10.77...........
88.6c...........
2. ~28.0C..........




Disbursements.......................................................
I...........


1...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................


Refullds..................................................................................................................................................................... -
*............................................................
*....................................................................................................................................................................................  255.00.............   6,3.oo..........................................  I 5 '.00.................................................................................
~~~...............*....................................^.................  -...........................................................................................................................................................




288


OCTOBER M:EETIN\G, 1 9I 


Printing Plant Pay Roll.......
Pharmacy Pay Roll...........
*Postage......................
Real Estate...................
Repairs.......................
Roentgenology.
Surveying....................
Store House.................
S. C. A. Stage Fund...........
School Inspection.............
*Physiology..................
S. A. Kelsey's Publications.....
Science Building..............
Traveling Expenses...........
Water Supply................
*Voucher Check Books.......
University Hospital...........
University Hospital, Pay Roll..
University Extension.........
*Forestry.....................
Pay Rolls:
Literary......................
Engineering..................
Medical......................
Law..........................
Chemical.....................
Pharmacy....................
HIomceopathic Med. 'College....
Dental.......................
Library.......................
General.......................
Homceopathic Hospital......
University Hospital...........
Summer School..............
Graduate Fellowship..........
Graduate School..............
Buildings and Grounds.......
Janitors......................
Binderv......................
Printing Plant...............
Biological Station.............
Summer Camp..............
Regents' Reception...........
Dean Worcester's Collection...
Superintendents Institute......
Botanical Gardens.


Z)J `.>IJ........................
I 3.2 5....................................
1,153 -33...................................
21,279-42....................................
4,664-40....................................
20.8,0....................................
43,342.80....................................
30-0c.....................................29.....................................
I.20........................
28.6-3.........................
3,6.68....................................
1.0 2...................................
7   - 0 3;...................................
44-00.....................................
204,326.o4...................................1 4........................  I............7 5.....................................
-3 I..................................
-.96
36o,588.70.........    24,703.......................
338,280-52....................................
213,395-OI.....................................
94,298,40....................................


Student      Re           DisburseFees         mceipts        ents
I.5........................
53-93......................
13.25..............
1,153-33........................
2I,279.42...............
4,664.40........o...........
20.80.......................
43,342.80.....................
30.0C......................29....................
1.20.
28.65...................
3,6.68...................
1.02.
7.....................
44.00....................
204,326.04...................14..75...................
3I................
- -      _    360o,588.o70............
338,280.52............
213,395I.................
94,298.4........................


Refunds................................................................................................................................................'.................................
24,705.9....................................................................................................................................................................................................
I...........




65,586.oI
42,22I.O0
8,005.27
I2,233.62
27,63,0.0o
26,!8I9.63
II 7,674-86
I5,I42.2I
53,825-74
52,339.59
8,930o.o
I,521.44
87,484.01
24,567.57
3,708. 15
2,224.70
2,064-75
60I.84
24.50
31.00
399.50
I64. I5..................................................................
-.1.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................




1............................................ I.......................................


I


I[


I






Miscellaneous.....
Balance.............1., T199,I64-48.............r 69,, 9.94
-   7............ - 7.8.]$.163. 11 r.41
12%9/7,g;67.83 $82.0o7,,6783S..................................
S 24,70,,.96






OCTOBER        MA!EETIING, 19I3                           289
Total Students' Fees: Departmental and Laboratories..................       $48,779.0o
Less  R efunds........................................................      24,367.95
Students'  Fees- net.......................................    $457,4r 1.04
Total Receipts from    miscellaneous sources............................ $350,588.70
Less   R efunds.........................................................        338.00
'Miscellaneous Receipts-net............................... $36o,250.70
DETAILED STATEMENT SPECIAL APPROPRIATIONS
HOM(EOPATHIC M"EDICArI, COLLEGE                           Receipts   Disbursements
B alance   July   I,  914..................................  $  88.20..........
From   State Treasurer...............................          6,ooo.....
Paid   V ouchers...............................................       $   5,231.50
Balance June 30, 1915...................................          856.70
$  6,088.20      $  6,o08.20
SUMMER HOSPITATI,
From    State  Treasurer...............................  $   3,000.00.......
Paid Vouchers..................................................              $  3,coo.co
$  3,000.00      $  3,000.00
HEATING, POWER AND LIGHTIsN'     PLANT
B alance   July   I,  1914..................................  $   50,114.90..........
From   State Treasurer, Accumulation of Savings.......        40,000.00..........
From   General Fund (Transfers)......................             80.55 
Paid Vouchers..................................................       $ 76,458.65
Balance June 30, 19155...........................................          3,736.80
$ 90,I95.45      $ 90,I95.45
SCIENCE BUILDING
Balance overdrawn July I, 91I4..................................  $  3,142.03
From    State  Treasurer................................   $320,000.00..........
From   State Treasurer, Accumulation of Savings........       25,c.co..........
From   General Fund (Transfer).......................            I48.23..........
Paid   Vouchers..................................................      299,701.1O
Balance  June   30,  I915...........................................        42,305.10
$345,I48.23      $345,148.23
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE HOSPITAI,
Balance July I, 194...................................  $     38.12..........
Balance  June   30,  1915...........................................     $       I38.  2
$    138.12      $    138.12
PSYCHOPATHIC WARD
Balance overdrawn July I, T914.........................                     $   9,464.63
Balance overdrawn June     o, 95......................       $  9,464.63..........
$  9,464.63      $  9,464.63




290                         OCTOBER MIIEETING, 19 r
DETAILED STATEMENT BUILDING ACCOUNTS
(ACCUMULATION OF SAVINGS)
Oven and Elevator                                           Receipts    Disburseilmelts
Balance  July   I,  1914...................................  $     94.82..........
Balance  June  30,  1915.....................................      $     94.82
$     94.82      $       4.82
Store House and Shops
Balance July I, 19T4..................                        $      6..57..........
B alance  June  30,  915..........................................              6.57
$      6.57      $       6.57
Hill Auditorium
Balance July I, 1914.................................... $           2.55
Balance June 30, I915......................                                          1 2.I55
$     12.55      S      12.55
Electrification of Side Track
From   State Treasurer................................. $        S8,oo0.o0
Disbursements...................................................          3,90.0
Balance June 30, I915...........................................      I4,810.00
$ i8,0ooo.oo     $ i8 ooo.oo
SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUND
SUIMMARY os BALANCES JTTUNE 30, 1915
Psychopathic WVard overdraft..................................       S  9464.6
Credit Balances
Summer Hospitals....................................             2,..........
Homceopathic    Medical College........................        856.70..........
Oven and Elevator                                                    94.82
Oven  and Elevator........................................          94.82..........
Heating, Power and Lighting Plant..............        1220..........
Store House and Shops...................65......                     6.57
H ill  A uditorium......................................           T2.55
Contagious Disease Hospital..........................                 T69
Science   B uilding......................................      3,94..........
Electrification of Side Track..........................          9,378.71
Balance  June  30,  I915.........................................        48,66.13
$ 57,73,.76       $ 57,73o.76
Pay Roll Homoeo. Medical College General Fund....... $ I2,233.62..........
Pay Roll Homoeo. Medical College Special Account.....             5,231.50      S T7,465.12




OCTOBER lIEETITNG, I9J5


291


TABULATED STATEMIENT (DETAILED)


Ju
Alumni Memorial Bldg...
A. M. Todd Price Fund..
American Academy at
R om e................
Alice Freeman Palmer..
Allopathic Hospital Fund
American School at
A thens...............
Angelina Bradford Whittier Botany Fellowship.
Ann Arbor Branch Collegiate Alumnae......
Acme White Lead &
Color Works.........
Anna M. Chandler
Scholarship...........
Bates Professorship Fund
Bursian Gesellschaft....
3abcock Scholarship....
Buhl Classical Fellowshil;
PBen Greet Dramatic Fund
Bates (Octavia) Law
Library........
Bates (Octavia) General
Library...
Carnegie Foundation..
Class of '94. Scholarship.
Class of '97 Scholarship.
Class of '98 Scholarship.
Class of '99 Scholarship.
Class of 1903 Scholarship
Class of I876 Scholarship
Class of 1913 (Law)
Scholarship...........
Class of 1890 (Medical)
Scholarship...........
Class of 1914 (Literary)
Scholarship...........
Class of 1914 (Eng.)
Scholarship...........
Class of 1915 (Eng.)
Scholarship...........
Coyl Library Class.....
Coolidge  (Lela).......
Carl Braun Fellowship...
DeCou Memorial.......
Exhibit Case (,Medical
Books)...............
Emma J. Cole Fellowship


Amount                Income               Amount
in Fund   Interest or Contribu- Expendi-  in Fund
1v1, I9IJ  Rentals    tions      tures   June 30,'1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:




$


22.70
100.00
30.00
3,886.79
2,183.27
40.00
4,288.99
562.12............


i




$ 220.00,  $ 250.00
I 10.50..........




$  194.63
io4.8I




201.46
6.oo.


150.15...


I




207.87
190. 0I
400.00




$  22.70
100.00...........
4,191.92
2,08O.21.15
4,090.45
580.12


12.00


5CQ0.00


I,083.15
142,847.05
47.37
5,305.38
I20.76
1.85
I4,175.00
3,oo00:9 
281.77
504.07
42.30
233.78
263.0o3
275.06
514.co
700.00
40. co
I, 179.49
1,519.05
I0,000.00
48.00
23.68
17,491.31






51.341
6,887.55............
258.39
3.00


I




695.25


I


1,250.00
00. 0C0
210.48
16,076.75
11,798.75
*:cc


I.


5oo00.........


I


8,464.0;S
8. i6..........
6oo.oo
116.07
73.10
1,79S.75




759.15
13c.80
12.85
7.50
1.2:j
9.60


J........  I.,I


I


4.6:
4.2<,


i


4680.85
1.97
4oo.oc
3.2 
I,o68.8.


1,134.49
142,520.51
39.21
5,563.77
20.76
99.26
14,870.25
16,762.80
3,131.74
294.62
51.57
42.30
235.02
272.63
281.36
530.34
704.60
404.28
232.73
10,195.21
1,597.73
10,1 00.0
44.75
23.68
17,164.36
_     -.\_............
484.57
80.65
5oo.co.......
741I 47




232.73............




l.43
















292


OCTOBER iIrEETING, 1915


Amount                Income              Amount
NAME            in Fund    Interest or Contribu- Expendi-  in Fund
ruly I, 1914  Rentals   tions     tures    June o,' 5....


Elucidation to Caesar's
Galic War............
Ford Messer Fund......
Frederick Stearns & Co.
Pharmacy............
Gas Association Fellowship..................
General Library........
Goethe Fund...........
Good Government Club..
Hill Auditorium........
Homceopathic Hospital...
Homoeopathic Hospital,
Interest..............
James B. Angell Fund...
Junior Play Loan Fund..
Lamont Refractor Fund.
Lucinda Hinsdale Stone.
Leave of Absence Fund..
Mary Furnum Bequest...
Morris Alumni Fund....
Music Hall Fund.......
Marine Biological
Laboratory...........
Morris Philosophy
Fellowship............
Morris Philosophy
Library...............
Motor Boat Biological
Station...............
Mortar Board Loan.....
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. I..........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. II.........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. III........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. IV........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. V.........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. VI........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. VII.......
Mic'h. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. VIII......
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. IX.......
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. X.........




I


20,709.39
314.82
69.58............
435.57
I,12.85
3.3197.1I
4,327.66
546.32
8.294.86
16.o.
7,509.75
3,325.5'0
I,0o9.95
5,c88.77
2, 134.49
50.00............
481.62
1.09
61.68.




I,co.4T




4. 2
2. I.IO
60.36
37.27
89.0O.
40Q.74
25S8.55
53.27
247.67
o02.78.


103.00........




I, I0.0C
145.49


4,496'.75
217.84.
70.01C..  7........
77_.5..........




I,114.87
5',961.76
404.95..........
8Io.oo
50.00...
200.00
166.26




235.04.


I




100.03
21,483.76
314.82
58.94
14.49
456.7/6
1,173.21
1,834.55
862.65
230.37
8,920.44
70.00
i6. 0,4I
7,768.30
3,294.o0
1,149.22
5,336.44
2,237.27
50.03.


I


20.3 '
2.91




3o.o.
20'0.00
50.20


I


1




4......09
42.99..............




11.2;
21.4


7.7
22.7


7
I
7
I
i............






6.6:


3.................................


36.4


33.36
5.o6
3.00
I,05..0C,
Si.68
213.14.
4co.o3
3.73
303.o0




I


I..........




I


2.25
4.06
103.50
i,88.06
I.00
2.07
28.21




1,667.52............




I






5.241...........




I






I




385.93
107.58
I7.93
54.77
12.83
23.46
r 045.94
14.59
12.60
404.24
84.19
293.36


72.53............




I






21.57............






I














OCTOBER IEETING, Ir15


293


N AME


T


Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. XI........
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Vol. XII.......
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Series Latin and Greek
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Historic Series Vol. I..
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Historic Series Vol. II.
Mich. Studies Humanistic
Historic Series Vol. III
Menorah Prizes.........
Mary Skeels Gradle......
Martha Cook Building...
Newton Van Der Veer
Fund.................
Newberry Residence Hall
Observatory Library Fund
Palmer Memorial Free
B ed.................
Parke, Davis & Co.......
Peter White Fellowship
(History)............
Peter White Classical....
Peter White Medical
Library...............
Phillips Scholarship....
Philo Parson Fund......
Prescott Memorial......
Pediatric Fund.........
Prize Advertising
Scholarship..........
Philadelphia Club.......
Photographing Psalms,Manuscript...........
Parthenon Frieze.......
Students' Lecture Association................
Saginaw Valley Alumnae
Association..........
Special Latin...........
Seth Harrison Fund.....
Special Lectures on Vocational Training.......
Smith, Hinchman and
G rylls................
Transportation Fund...
Treadwell Free Bed Fund
Tappan Memorial.......
Turner (Jane) Loan Fund


I


Amount
in Fund
Ily  I, I914


121. 10


184.20
196.23


II......................


17.93...........


iterest or
Rentals


1.3I
100.00......................


573.26
1...........
25.15
15,884.27
50.03o
202.93
II.86
25.04
2,070.83
1i78.o
15.46
52.13


Income               Amount
Contribu- Expendi-   il Fund
tions     tures    June 30,'15
50o.lo...........  500.00




I3.16.53
752.6I...........


I.1
I


2.97
5.20........
I,000.00
405.00


2,437.24
8o.57
21.72


I,7T4.5t'
6.25.........




2,353.72
236.90..........


5.20
I00.00
io.oo............


210.OD
2.85


I
P.


204.62
27.95
217.96
20.90
1.31
I,000.03
405.00
586.42
1,504.50
22.83
15,642.13
50.oo


1,00I.00
202.93
II.86


IOI.4l
'8.7C
*3'
I1.C(






500.oc
0.0;1


5c00.o0........................     485.76     485.76
40.77.................................


i,688.56
355.46.29
30,594.33




I


l


i


25.04
2,172.28
r86.76
I5.78
53.I9
50.00
5o.oo..........
40.77
1,760.44
385.46
30,756.80
I03.CO
605.18
11.42
50.28
500.00


1............      30.0.................................29
1,474-97..........  1,312.50


I


I






50.0o......................


5o.0


3




I


I00.00
838.77
9.38
4.057.33




I


I


52.69..........




233.59
132.65
4,007.05.........


I




* l..:: e


50.00'






t




294


OC7TOBER MEETING, -9(1


NA M:


Amount
in Fund
July I, I914


Income


Interest or ContribuRentals    tions


University Hospital
Trust Account........
University Hospital
Interest...............
Uppjohn Fellowship.....
Woodward Ave. Lease...
Warren Book Fund......
Walter Crane...........
*Walter Crane Property
Account..............
Warner Fund...........
Williams Professorship
Fund.................
W,\Villiams Professorship
Property Account.....
Women's Gymnasium..
Women's Professorship
Fund..
Webster Scholarship....
Waldo Abbott Fund....


17,474.54..........


401.27.............,0o55.I9
I12.13
3,408.88
10,495.8I
6.8o
17,490.78
I3,53I.68
136.23
20,257.43
1,384.92
$424,302.78


562.81
I.......................
3.96
465.60
583.40.27
79o.65


211,819.30
1,00.00
2,500.08
2,5oo.o8
200.00
2,201.37


tExpenditures
204,301.58
562.66
8oo.oo
2,660.86
286.17
2,201.37
1,500.oo
2,7-5.69..........


AmIount
in Fund
June30,' 5
24,992.26
401.42
200.00
S94.41
2,9.92
5,775.85
8,877.84
7.o07
19,532.12
1,48i.!5S
136.23
21,251.43
1,452.73
$447.733.13


2,75o.69


o00.69..............................


994 00...............
67-.816.3              5
67.8 I..........................   3       6I.35 
$19,823.o6 $31 3,692.17 $310.084.88


GIFT AND TRUST FUNDS
Under this head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents have
received from time to time from benefactors for special purposes. The new accounts
opened during the year are, Bates (Octavia) General Library, Elucidation of Caesar's
Galic War, General Library, Junior Play Loan Fund, Mlary Skeels Gradle, Martha
Cook Building, Newberry Residence, Philadelphia Club, Photographing Psalms \lanuscript, Jane Turner Loan Fund, Upjohn Fellowship, Waldo Abbott Fuld.
Conldenised,Stateotment
Total Fund July I, 1914...........................    $424,302.78
Contributions...........................................   3I3,692.I7
Interest and Rentals....................................  9,823.06
$757,818.I0
Expenditures...............$.........................$310,084.
Balance in Funds June 30, 1915.......................... 447,733.1
$757,8I8.o0


* See Appendices.




OCTOBER       iIIEETING, 1915                           295
INVESTMlENTS OF TRUST FUNDS
M ortgages..............................................$  98,500.00
Notes  (Students'  notes)................................  8, I67.92
Apartment House Property.............................   I,.
Properties (Union Trust-Williams).....................      I,481.68
Properties (Union Trust-Crane).......................       8,877.84
R eal   E state............................................  6,5.00
Contracts............................................... Io,732.15
Bank and Trust Companies.............................. 49,068.54
Premium...............................................   2,855.00
B onds..................................................  250,500.00
$447,733.13
APPENDIX A
WILLIAMS PROFESSORSHIP FUND (PROPERTY ACCOUNT)
This is in the hands of the Union Trust Co. for management and the summary of
its report is as follows:
Real  Estate  M ortgages.......................................$  9,975.00
Real Estate..................................................   i,506.68  $11,481.68
$II,481.68
Conltra
Total amount in valuation at last report, June I6, 914......... $I3,531.68
Net gain in valuation for year ending June i6, 195............ 700.69
$I4,232.37
Less payment to U. of M. Treasurer.......................... 2,750.69     $II,481.68
APPENDIX B
WALTER CRANE^ (PROPERTY ACCOU NT)
This is in the hands of the Union Trust Co. for management and the summary
of its report is as follows:
Land Contracts on hand June I6, I915................. $ 8,877.84  $ 8,877.84
Conltra
Total amount in valuation on hand June 6. 1914............... $10,495.8I
Net gain for year ending June I6, 915.......................      583.40
$11,079.2I
Less payment to U. of M. Treasurer.......................... 2,20I.37     $ 8,877.84




NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIVE,RSITY 01 MICHIGAN, 1
ANN ARBOR, November 2, I915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io P. M. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Hanchett. Absent, Regent Gore and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Clements, the minutes of the meeting of October 15 were approved as submitted to the members in proof, with a number of changes in typography and
forms of expression.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board authorized
traveling expenses of not over $30 to cover 'a trip by Professor Joseph Bursley to Gary, Ind., to investigate there the
question of economical use of space in school buildings.
Regent Sawyer presented the following letter, addressed
to himself:
I have considered the matter taken up in our discussion
of last evening and should be pleased to undertake the making of a general plan or scheme for the University Hospital
at Ann Arbor.
I will undertake this work for a fee in full of $I50o.
This work would cover consultations with the Hospital
Committee at Ann Arbor and the developing and revision
of such ideas as may arise at these consultations and the
forming of a general plan showing elevations, etc., at a
small scale. This would include the elaboration of the individual schedules of building or buildings under prospect of
present construction to a point where a fair estimate of the
cost of the same could be made. If it is desired to go outside
of Ann Arbor for consultation or to visit other institutions,
I will give my time to this travel provided my actual expenses are paid.
Assuring you of my best efforts should I be entrusted
with this commission, I am
Yours truly,
WM. B. STRATTON.
November 2, I915.




298


2NOVEMBlER MEETING, 9_15


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board accepted the
proposal of Mr. Stratton with the understanding that the
Regents assumed no obligation to commission Mr. Stratton
to prepare the building plans and specifications for any structure which might ultimately be erected under the general
plan or scheme. The sum of $500 was added to the original
appropriation of $I,oo0   (see page I89) for this purpose.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board authorized the
employment in the Engineering Shops for this year only of
a part time mechanic for the construction of apparatus for
the Department of Physics, at the salary of $30o     payable
out of funds already appropriated for the Physics salary
roll.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board set aside the
sum  of $250 for the purchase of four alternating current
motors for the Printing Plant.
The following communication was received:GENT'LEMEN:In past years much confusion and some loss arose
through delay in the payment of students' fees at registration time. To avoid this difficulty a number of years ago
the Regents directed that all matriculation, annual, and
laboratory fees must be paid in advance of registration.
This regulation, strictly enforced, has worked a vast improvement. Sometimes, however, hardship has arisen in
individual cases, as with students who have almost but not
quite money enough to register, or who are certain of
money for their fees within a comparatively short time.
To obviate this trouble, the Auditing Board suggests
to the Board of Regents the desirability of authorizing the
Auditing Board, or its proper representative, to make loans
to students in certain cases, out of the University Trust
Funds, where the University can be absolutely protected
through the refund of fees due to students who withdraw
within specified periods.
If a student withdraws within two weeks he is entitled to a refund of his entire fee. Therefore, since the
University has the money in its own hands, the University would be protected during a period of two weeks for
the loan of the entire amount of students' fees. Similarly
the University would be protected on a loan of 5o% of the




NOVEMBER MEETING, 915r


299


annual fee for a term of eight weeks, and on a loan of
40% of the annual fee for a term of one semester. The
following form of note is suggested:Ann Arbor, Michigan,............Ig9....................
On or before.............next I promise to pay to the
University of Michigan or order the sum of................
Dollars for value rec&ived. In consideration of this loan
being made me without other security than my own signature, I agree and promise that should this loan not be repaid on or before the above-named due date, I will on said
due date withdraw from my connection as a student with
said University of Michigan, and said University is hereby
authorized, in the event of the non-payment of this note on
or before the above-named due date, to terminate my connection as a student with said University and out of the
amount due me as a refund of fees in consequence of my
withdrawal on or before such date, to withhold a sum
equal to the then unpaid portion or whole of this note, the
sum so withheld to be applied in final payment of this note.
(Signature)...........................
A fee of $I.oo or interest at the rate of 6% per annum,
whichever amount is greater, has been deducted from the
proceeds of this loan when made.
The fee for or interest on this loan would not be great
enough to be burdensome and would yet prevent students
from borrowing needlessly. There would always be a sufficient amount in the Trust Funds to make these loans, as
doubtless they would not aggregate all told $Iooo.oo.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY W. SAMITH, Secretary,
for Auditing Board.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved and
authorized the suggested plan of loans.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. Edward A. Rykenboer was authorized to enroll in the Graduate School for
the present year, on payment of the $Io fee required of
those whose work, with the exception of their dissertations,
is completed (see pages 49-50).




300


NO VELMEBER MEETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board set aside the
sum of $328.85 for changes in the north and south hallways
of the main east and west corridors of the second floor of
the Palmer Ward.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board referred to
the President, with power, the request of Miss Alice E.
Hunt that on account of illness she might be granted temporary leave of absence, with salary.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Mr. F. W. Pawlowski
was promoted to be Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the salary of $I,70o, effective with the beginning of the present University year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board declined at
this time to grant a promotion to Mr. C. E. Wilson, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board referred to
the Buildings and Grounds Committee for report a communication from Dean Cooley requesting better provision
than the present for alternating current service to the Electrical Engineering Laboratory.
Regent Leland and Regent Bulkley recommended that
no action be taken at present toward the sale of certain vacant lots in Detroit owned by the University (see page 269).
On motion of Regent Clements, Regent Leland was authorized to write the New York Trust Company, administrator of the estate of the late Williston S. Hough, requesting that Company to act as it might think most advantageous
to the estate with respect to the proposed sale of shares of
American Brass Company stock.
Regent Leland was excused.
The Secretary reported the information he had thus far
been able to secure and the action he had felt justified in
taking with respect to fire insurance upon the Psychopathic
Hospital (see page 264). On motion of Regent Clements
this question was referred to Regent Bulkley and the Secretary, with power.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board voted that the
question of reducing the number of vouchers required in
the payment of University obligations (see page 265) be
laid upon the table.




NAO EMBER MEETING, 1915


301


On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Secretary and Treasurer be instructed to consider and take up with the Auditor General the
question whether the accounting methods affecting in common the Auditor General's office and the University business
offices might not be somewhat simplified.
The Secretary and the Treasurer were requested to report at an early date upon this matter.
The President reported that he had authorized a loan
from the 1894 Class Fund to Miss Jamie Morgan (see page
276).
The Secretary reported that in the opinion of the attorneys of the Board the University would acquire a good
title to certain lands adjacent to the Bogardus Engineering
Camp (see page I67) through a deed signed by W. J. Galloway but lacking the signature of his wife who has not been
a resident of this state since 1902. On motion of Regent
Clements, the Secretary was authorized to accept such deed.
The President presented a communication from  Mrs.
Josephine P. McGowan, the widow of the late Regent Jonas
H. McGowan, transmitting a check for $500 to constitute
a loan fund in memory of Mr. McGowan. The donor requested that the fund should be administered by the President and the Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts as a loan fund for the benefit of needy students in
that College.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, this gift was accepted
under the conditions stated, and the Secretary was directed
to communicate to Mrs. McGowan the thanks of the Regents.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
reimbursement of Mrs. Margaret E. Hunt for taxes paid
by her on California lands in which the University has a
contingent interest (see page Io2). These payments aggregate for the present year and for the final installment of
the preceding year the sum of $206.47, plus possible collection fees.
The Secretary presented a claim of James W. McKernan
and Katherine McKernan for alleged damages to property




302


NO VEMBER.MEETING, 1915


due to the construction of the side track from the Michigan
Central Railroad to the Heating, Power, and Lighting
Plant.   This claim was referred to the Secretary and the
attorneys of the Board for report.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. Wayne J. Atwell was
authorized to register for the present University year as a
resident of Michigan.
The Secretary presented correspondence between Dean
Cooley and M\r. John S. Dodge, of Detroit, transmitting the
sum of $io,ooo as a student loan fund in accordance with a
proposed agreement, as follows:Know all men by these presents, that I, John F. Dodge
of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of
Michigan, do hereby give and donate to the Regents of the
University of Mlichigan the sum of Ten Thousand ($Io,ooo)
Dollars, the purpose and conditions of said gift being as
follows:I. The purpose of this gift is the establishment of a
loan fund in the College of Engineering of the University,of Michigan, the beneficiaries of such fund to be seniors
and juniors in said College and said fund to be known as the
John Frank Dodge Loan Fund, College of Engineering.
2. The moneys of this fund shall be handled by the
Treasurer of the University of 'Michigan and shall be by
him, under the direction of the Finance Committee of the
Regents, kept constantly invested so far as the purpose of
the fund makes such investment practicable.
3. The conditions of this gift are the following:a. Said fund shall be administered by a committee
consisting of the President of the University, the Dean
of the College of Engineering, and the Professor at
the head of the department in which the applicant for
aid is enrolled.
b. The principal and interest of said fund shall
be loaned in sums not exceeding one hundred dollars
for any one year and not exceeding two hundred dollars to any one student, to seniors or juniors in said
College of Engineering whose record as students and
whose needs, in the judgment of said committee, justify
-uch loan.
c. Upon receiving the money the applicant shall
sign a note for same, payable to the Treasurer of the




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1915


303


I'iiversity of Michigan, the time and interest rate to be
as provided in paragraphs d and e.
d. The time for payment of loans shall be fixed
so as not to exceed two years from the date of graduation of the students receiving loans. This time may,
however, be extended at the discretion of the Committee, if in its judgment such extension of time is
proper and deserved; but no extension of time shall
be given until the note shall have become due and payable, and then only on evidence establishing its propriety and necessity.
e. All loans shall bear interest at the rate of five
per cent per annum from the time of graduation until
the time of repayment.
4. If in the future this fund shall grow to -exceed the
needs of its original purpose as a loan fund, the interest
on such excess shall, when it accumulates in sufficient
amount, be used to encourage research and to establish fellowships in engineering under such conditions and on such
terms as the Regents may prescribe, being advised in the
premises by the President of the University and the Dean
of the College of Engineering. At such time the title of the
fund may be changed to include the terms research and
fellowships, one or both. Provided, however, that no funds
shall be used for research or fellowship work that will in
any way impair the original capital of this fund.
1I WTitness Whereof, I 'have hereunto set my hand this
iSth day of October, A. D. I915.
JOHN FRANK DODGE.
The Regents of the University of 'Michigan hereby accept the donation provided for in the foregoing instrument.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
b y.............................
by.............................
On motion of Regent Bulkley this gift was accepted with
the thanks of the Board, and the President and Secretary
were authorized to execute the agreement in the name of
the Regents.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board authorized an expenditure of not to exceed $25 for traveling expenses of
Professor Alfred H. White in attending the meeting of the
Advisory Committee of the Bureau of Standards, in Pittsburgh, November 4 and 5.




304


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1915


A communication was received from Professor Warthin
requesting additional assistance in the Department of Pathology in view of the action of the Regents (see page 265)
placing exclusively under the control of the Buildings and
Grounds Department an employee in the Medical Building.
Regent Sawyer stated that there would doubtless be requests
also for assistance in the laboratories of Histology and Anatomy. On motion of Regent Hanchett, these requests were
referred to Regent Sawyer and the Secretary, with power.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved the
action of the Executive Committee in extending an invitation to the Michigan State Grange to hold its annual meeting in Ann Arbor next December.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty -of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, the degree of Bachelor of Chemical Engineering was conferred upon George Judson Chertoff.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Professor Canfield and Dean Effinger the following
appointments were made: Frank L. Hager, Instructor in
Romance Languages, from October 21 for the remainder
of the University year, with salary at the rate of $I,ooo.
Emerson Christie, Instructor in Romance Languages, from
November I for the remainder of the University year, with
salary at the rate of $I,ooo. Harry C. Barnett, Instructor in
Romance Languages for the entire year I915-I916 (as substitute for Professor Talamon) with salary of $I,ooo. Jose
M. Hernandez, Assistant in French, three-quarters time, for
the University year I9I5-I9I6, with salary of $675.
A communication from Dean Vaughan notified the Regents that Dr. Benjamin P. Brodie, of Detroit, had presented
to the University for the Medical Building a portrait of the
late Dr. Zina Pitcher, one of the original members of the
Faculty of the Medical School and a former Regent. On
motion of Regent Sawyer, this gift was accepted with the
thanks of the Board to the donor.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
the salary of Professor I. N. Demmon be fixed at $4,000,
as Professor of English Literature, with $5oo additional for




NOVEMBER MEETING, r915


305


services as editor and as Curator of Rare Books. This action is effective from October I, I9I5.
The following communication was received and on
motion of Regent Bulkley, Professor Wenley was accordingly elected:To the HIonorable Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan.
CENTLEMEN:The period of service of Professor Robert Mark Wenley
as a member of the Executive Board of the Graduate School
having expired and it being the duty of the undersigned
to nominate a successor, we beg leave, in view of his exceptionally valuable services on said Board, to nominate
Professor Wenley to succeed himself for the full term of
seven years.
Respectfully submitted,
HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
President.
ALFRED H. LLOYD,
Dean of the Graduate School.
Ann Arbor, November 2, I915.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board declined to
provide compensation for chairmen of certain Faculty committees.
A request from Mr. J. B. Jones, Jr., a student, for a loan
from the I894 Class Fund was, on motion of Regent Sawyer, referred to the President, with power.
The suggestion of Mr. James E. Harkins as administrator of an estate that the University should purchase a certain lot on Glen Avenue was referred to the Buildings and
Grounds Committee for report.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $I50 was added
to the salary roll of the College of Dental Surgery and Mr.
R. W. Priest was appointed Assistant in Prosthetic Technics
for the academic year, with salary of $250.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the sum of $,000o was
transferred from the salary account of the College of Architecture to the equipment account of the College of Architecture.  The remaining unassigned balance of $Ioo in
the salary account is to be used to provide a student assistant.




3~6


NOVEMBER B M1EETING, 1915


On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical School,
the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon Robert Harold Criswell.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
changes were made in appointments to University Fellowships, as stated below:UNIVERSITY EALLOWSHIP, $303
Mr. Nathan Edward VanStone, B.S., I914, instead of iMr.
Harrison Gray Otis, resigned.
UNIVERSITY FELLOWSHIP, $500
to be divided into two equal parts
$250 to Mr. William Harry Jellema, A.B., I915, and
$250 to Mr. Edward Henry Lauer, A.B., I936, A.M., I9o9,
instead of Mr. William Ober Raymond, resigned.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
the degree of Master of Arts was conferred upon Alice
VanderVelde, A. B.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following appointments made by the Secretary to positions provided in the
budget were approved and confirmed.       All appointments
are for the academic year, unless otherwise stated.
Robert W. Priest, Demonstrator in Clinical Dentistry, with
salary of $Ioo.
Ewonda B. Schlenker, Demonstrator in Clinical Dentistry,
with salary of $500.
William S. James, Demonstrator in Clinical Dentistry, with
salary of $500.
Alfred W. Kany, Demonstrator in Clinical Dentistry, with
salary of $500.
Gerald D. Strong, Demonstrator in Clinical Dentistry, with
salary of $500.
Ralph M. McCormick, Assistant in Applied Physics and
Chemistry, with salary of $300.
Read Smith, Assistant in Geology, with salary of $200.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1915                       307
Garrett Heyns, Assistant in History, with salary of $350.
Walter H. Sprague, Assistant in History, with salary of
$350.
Arthur C. Cross, Assistant in History, with salary of $350.
Clarence B. Goshorn, Assistant in History, with salary of
$500.
Katherine J. Wieber, Assistant in Rhetoric, for the remainder of the University year after October 13, 1915,
with salary at the rate of $300 per year.
Gladys C. Vedder, Assistant in Rhetoric, vice Miss Clara B.
Dunn, with salary of $650.
Robert G. Brown, Assistant in Pharmacy, vice R. E. Morse,
with salary of $200.
George K. Finzel, Assistant in Pharmacy, vice E. H. Woodhouse, with salary of $200.
Henry N. Oellrich, Assistant in Pharmacy, vice E. V. Rice,
with salary of $200.
Halouk Fikret, Assistant in the office of the Dean of the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, with salary
of $200.
Carl E. Gormsen, Assistant in the office of the Assistant
Dean of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture,
with salary of $200.
Clarence T. Fishleigh, Assistant in Descriptive Geometry
and Drawing, with salary of $oo00.
Francis T. Mack. Assistant in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing, with salary of $100.
Leslie L. LeVeque, Assistant in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing, with salary of $I00.
Robert D. MicCree, Assistant in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing, with salary of $Ioo.
Wesley Bintz, Assistant in Surveying, with salary of $Ioo.
George M. Bleekman, Assistant in Surveying, with salary
of $Ioo.
William E. Code, Assistant in Surveying, with salary of
$I00.
Archibald C. Simons, Assistant in Surveying, with salary
of $Ioo.
Harry Christiansen, Assistant in Surveying, with salary
of $Ioo.
Arthur Burrell, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics, with
salary of $Ioo.
Dana R. Cornell, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics, with
salary of $I5o.




308           NOT EMBER MEETING, 1915
Frederick K. Hirth, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics,
with salary of $Ioo.
Richard T. Iiddicoat, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics,
with salary of $Ioo.
Frank D. Riecks, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics, with
salary of $Ioo.
Donald A. Thomas, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics,
with salary of $200o.
J. Martin Brown, Assistant in Civil Engineering, with salary of $I50.
Harry C. Coons, Assistant in Civil Engineering, with salary
of $I50.
Carl H. Cotter, Assistant in Civil Engineering, with salary
of $I50.
Albert H. Jewell, Assistant in Civil Engineering, with salary
of $I50.
Harry R. Leach, Assistant in Civil Engineering, with salary
of $I50.
Ira H. Reindel, Assistant in Civil Engineering, with salary
of $I5o.
Harold A. Hicks, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering,
with salary of $o00.
Jacob G. Milliken, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering,
with salary of $Ioo.
William C. Thompson, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering,
with salary of $Ioo.
Howard S. Manwaring, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with salary of $Ioo.
F. J. Vonachen, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Walter Warren, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with
salary of $2oo.
Woodward A. Warrick, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with salary of $200.
Allen F. Sherzer, Teaching Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with salary of $6o0.
Raymond Urch, Teaching Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with salary of $600.
John L. Allison, Assistant in Electrical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Melyin D. Anderson, Assistant in Electrical Engineering,
with salary of $Ioo.
John F. Clark, Assistant in Electrical Engineering, with salary of $200.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1915                       309
Ivan J. Cuthbert, Assistant in Electrical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Harry A. Mankin, Assistant in Electrical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Chauncey W. Smith, Assistant in Electrical Engineering,
with salary of $Ioo.
Henry D. Stecher, Assistant in Electrical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Dudley A. Nichols, Wireless Operator, with salary of $200.
Porter H. Evans, Teaching Assistant in Electrical Engineering, with salary of $6oo.
John P. Roberts, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, with
salary of $250.
Harold F. Wood, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, with
salary of $250.
George W. Hooper, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Elbert G. Milham, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, with
salary of $ioo.
Wyatt A. Miller, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, with
salary of $200.
Edwin C. Wright, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, with
salary of $Ioo.
Phillip B. Dippel, Assistant in Engineering Shops, with salary of $200.
Charles H. Graff, Assistant in Engineering Shops, with salary of $200.
Leon W. Whitson, Assistant in Engineering Shops, with
salary of $200.
Harvey E. Barrett, Assistant in Marine Engineering, with
salary of $200.
Archibald F. Fowler, Assistant in Architecture, for the first
semester, with. salary of $50.
George B. Hammond, Assistant in Architecture, for the first
semester, with salary of $50.
Frederick Kolb, Assistant in Architecture, for the first semester, with salary of $50.
Gilbert S. Underwood, Assistant in Architecture, for the
first semester, with salary of $5o.
Horace J. Andrews, Assistant in Forest Mensuration, with
salary of $200.
N. Leroy Cary, Assistant in Silviculture, with salary of
$200.




3Io


NO VEMBER MEETING, 1915


Lester C. Todd, Technical Assistant in the University
Health Service, (12 months' basis), with salary at the
rate of $500 per year.
Ruby M. Hall, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $200.
Harold Cummins, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $250.
Charles H. Ross, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $250.
Etta A. Bowerman, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $300.
Harry E. Hatcher, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $400.
Carl D. LaRue, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $400.
C. A. Ludwig, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $400.
Mary E. Elder, Assistant in Botany, for the first semester,
with salary of $200.
Edward W. Hartwell, Assistant in Botany, with salary of
$200.
Edwin B. Mains, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $400.
P. H. Piper, Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, vice L.
C. Ludlum, with salary of $6oo.
Roy B. Cowin, Assistant in Economics, with salary of $250.
William  P. Dies, Assistant in Economics, with salary of
$250.
Russell D. Kilborn, Assistant in Sociology, with salary of
$300.
Ralph R. Lounsbury, Assistant in Accounting, with salary
of $400.
Herbert N. Schmitt, Assistant in Accounting, with salary
of $250.
E. M. Carroll, Assistant in History, with salary of $350.
Lynn A. Ferguson, Assistant in Physiology, vice William R.
Vis, with salary of $300.
Theophile Raphael, Assistant in Physiology, vice Holton M.
Lowe, with salary of $300.
James W. Mack, Assistant in Economics, with salary of
$250.
Mrs. Sybil K. Bennett, Assistant in Sociology, with salary
of $250.
Leland S. Thompson, Messenger to Dean of College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, with salary of $250.
Henry S. Hosmer, Messenger to Dean of College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, with salary of $250.
Capen A. Fleming, Assistant in Political Science, with salary of $250.
Orma F. Butler, Assistant in Latin, for the first semester,
with salary of $300.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1915


3    I


GENERAL AND PHYSICAL CEIEMISTRY
E. A. Rykenboer, Teaching Assistant................. $500
E. M. Honan, Teaching Assistant..................... 500
F. C. Vibrans, Teaching Assistant.................... 450
H. R. Wells, Teaching Assistant...................... 450
N. A. Lange, Teaching Assistant..................... 400
O. E. Madison, Teaching Assistant................... 400
A. G. Williams, Teaching Assistant..........'.......  400
E. C. Britton, Teaching Assistant for first semester.. 200
Harold F. Whittaker, Assistant....................... 200
A. Baird Hastings, Assistant......................... 150
Victor H. Sugar, Assistant........................... 
J.  S.  Richtig,  Assistant...............................  o10
William C. Dowd, Assistant.......................... 100
E.  K.  Goettel,  A ssistant..............................  IO1
J. H. Schmidt, Assistant, without salary.
Edgar T. Olson, Assistant, without salary.
Maynard A. Norris, Assistant, without salary.
William S. Reveno, Assistant, without salary.
ANAI,YTICAL CHEtMISTRY
QUANTITATIVE
A. H. Huisken, Teaching Assistant................... 450
W. T. Isbell, Teaching Assistant...................... 200
R. D. Smith, Teaching Assistant...................... 200
QUALITATIVE
L. J. Gurevich, Assistant............................. 200
G. W. Blanco, Assistant............................. 100
R. F. Dunbrook, Assistant........................... I10
H. W. Sheldon, Assistantt............................   10
C. W. Anderson, Assistant.........................   100
C. F. Smart, Assistant...................... 100
T. K. Hutson, Assistant...........................    100
E. H. Bird, Assistant...........................  100
Walter E. Jominy, Director's First Assistant, Chemical Laboratory, with salary of $300.
Robert S. Archer, Director's Second Assistant, Chemical
Laboratory, without salary.
Gordon R. Mirick, Assistant in Mathematics,-from October
I8 for the remainder of the University year, with salary at the rate of $300 per year.




312


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1915


Helen Lucy Clark, Assistant in Mathematics, from OctoberI8 for the remainder of the University year, with salary
at the rate of $300 per year.
Granville D. Jones, Assistant in Mathematics, from October
I8 for the remainder of the University year, 'with salary
at the rate of $300 per year.
William L. Miller, Clerk of the Practice Court, with salary
of $1oo.
B. A. Sole, Assistant in the Dispensing Room, Chemical
Laboratory, half-time, from October 25, with salary of
$25 per month.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, certificates of
graduation from   the University Hospital Training School
for Nurses were voted the following:
Irene Helen Wright
Pearl Pottruff
Rhea Ellen Gettings
Annette,Marie Fox
Ida J. Eilola
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of
Bachelor of Laws was conferred upon Thomas Fadden
Murphy.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to io A. M., December
I, I915.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY O     1 MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, DICEMBER I, 1915. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room         at Io A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent
Hanchett, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler.        Absent, Regent Beal, who later took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the
meeting of November 2 were approved as submitted to the
members in proof, with changes on pages 300 and 302.
Regent Beal took his seat.
The   Secretary   read  the  following   self-explanatory
letter:PROFESSOR H. H. HIGBIE,
Department of Electrical Engineering.
MY DEAR PROFESSOR HIGBIE:The Regents at their meeting November 2, failed to take
definite action with respect to the circulation of reports
of the test of lamps, although the matter was discussed at
some length. It was my impression from the discussion,
that they thought it unwise on the whole to make public use
of the tests made here for our own guidance or for the
guidance of the State institutions, since such use of these
tests might be, in the course of business, prejudicial to the
legitimate business interests of citizens of this State, the
competitive business interests not always being fair to one
another in their use of material which is scientifically and
technically correct.
Therefore it should be understood that until further
notice, results of tests of this sort should not be given
out, and these tests should not be furnished to the {State
Buyers' Association nor anybody else, except on assurance
that they will be regarded as confidential.
Sincerely yours,
SHIRLEY W. SAMITH
Secretary
November 4, 1915




314


DECEIBELR IjIfEEIfN' C, T915


Regent Sawyer moved that the letter of the Secretary
to Professor Hi-gbie be approved as expressing the policy
of the Regents in matters of this sort.   After discussion,
Regent Sawver's motion xw-as carried on a call vote, as
follows:    ' vc, Regent Bleal, Regent Sawyer,    Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Gore; Nay, Re gent Leland.
A report from Professor Demmon upon his inspection
of the Halsey collection of rare books, in New York City,
was, upon suggestion of Regent Clements, erased from the
program as there were no funds available for making purchases from this collection.
Regent Clements reported for himself and Regent Beal,
the committee appointed (see page 265) with power to act
on the question of additional storm sewerage in the vicinity of the heating plant. Regent Clements's report included
a letter addressed to his committee by the Secretary and
the Superintendent of Grounds, as follows:REGENT WILLIAM L. CLEMRINTS,
Bay City, Mich.
REGENT JUNIUS E. BEAL,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
GENTLEMEN:In accordance with your instruction, we have prepared
the following proposition with reference to the storm and
sanitary sewer matter in Washington Street near the
power plant, for presentation, su;bject to your approval, to
the Common Council of this city: 
To the Hoinorable the Co01tmon CouIncil of the
City of Ann1 Arbor, Mnlichiga7n.
GENTLE MEN:In order to cooperate with and assist the City in relieving the unsanitary conditions existing in Washington Street
between Twelfth and Fourteenth Streets, the Regents of the
University make the following proposition for your consideration:
ARTICLE I.
In consideration of the performance by the City of Ann
Arbor of certain parts of this proposition contained in
Article II herein set forth, the University of Michigan will




DECEM'IBER M 1EETING, I915


315


provide the city with right of way across Lots Io and I5
of Block 4 R. S. Smith's Third Addition for a combined
36" storm and 18" sanitary sewer and will reimburse the
City for the actual cost, not to exceed $2650, at unit prices
herein stipulated, said prices being the basis of a contract
now existing between the City of Ann Arbor and William
Eddy and Son for the construction of a storm and sanitary
sewer in Glenn Ave; provided,
ARTICLE II.
(a) That the City of Ann Arbor will order this work
done as an extra on the above-mentiooned contract, from a
manhole on Lot I5, Block 4, R. S. Smith's Third Addition,
said manhole being included in said contract, to a point
in the center of Washington Street immediately west of
the east line of Lot Io Block 4 R. S. Smith's Third Addition, in accordance with plans and specifications prepared
by and now on file in the office of the City Engineer.
(b) That the supervision of this work and the preparation of estimates,therefor shall be by the City Engineer,
said estimates to be checked by the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds of the University.
(c) That a sanitary sewer will be forthwith ordered,
and built as early as next summer, in. Washington Street,
properly laid and of proper size to furnish sanitary drainage
to any house now existing on said street between Twelfth
and Fourteenth Streets, and that no request for contribution to the cost of construction of such sewer or assessment on account of actual or probable benefits to property
owned by the University affected by the sewer will be
filed by the City with the University.
(d) That the University shall have free, full, and public
rights in any or all of the sewers contemplated in this
proposition.
(e) That the unit prices, above mentioned, on which the
University's proposition is based are as follows:36" sewer @ $2.26 per foot.
I8" tile  @.40 per foot.
12" tile  @.22 per foot.
Inlets   @ II.oo each.
I2" elbows @.68 each.
'Concrete in cradle $5.00 per cu. yard.
Excavation and back filling
Between  o ft. and  6 ft. deep @ $.65 per cu. yard




316


DECEMBER MEETING, 1915


Between  6 ft. and  8 ft. deep @.75 per cu. yard
Between  8 ft. and io ft. deep @.85 per cu. yard
Between Io ft. and 12 ft. deep @.95 per cu. yard
Between 12 ft. and 14 ft. deep @  I.05 per cu. yard
Between 14 ft. and I6 ft. deep @  I.I5 per cu. yard
Between 16 ft. and IS ft. deep @  1.25 per cu. yard
Between I8 ft. and 20 ft. deep @  1.35 per cu. yard
Between 20 ft. and 22 ft. deep @  1.45 per cu. yard
Between 22 ft. and 24 ft. deep @  1.55 per cu. yard
(f) That it is understood that this proposition has no
bearing on past or future transactions between the City of
Ann Arbor and the Regents of the University of Michigan,
and that the City will not ask the Regents to contribute
further to storm  sewers in this district, but will proceed
with this construction as rapidly as possible and as funds
will permit.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
per
President
per
Secretary
The foregoing proposition was informally presented
'to the Sewer Committee of the Council by your Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds and received unanimous
approval.
It is recommended that this proposal to the City be
formally authorized and filed with the Council for consideration at the next meeting, to be held December 6, I915.
1915.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary
JAS. H. MARKS, Superintendent
November 29, I915
On motion of Regent Clements, the communication to
the Common Council of Ann Arbor, contained in the letter
of the Secretary and the Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds, was approved and authorized by the Board, and
a sum of not to exceed $2650 was set aside to meet the
obligation to the City should the proposal be accepted and
its terms carried out by the City.




DECE.JXMBER MEETING, r1915


3I7


The President presented the following report of the
Executive Committee and, on motion of Regent Sawyer,
this report was adopted by the Regents:To the Regents of the University
of Michigan:GENTLEMEN:
On account of the sudden death of Superintendent J.
B. Draper of the University Hospital, it became necessary
to appoint at once some one to act as Superintendent until
the next meeting of the Board. Your Executive Committee,
therefore, at a meeting held November 15, 1915, appointed
Mr. Robert G. Greve as Superintendent pro tern of the
University Hospital, it being understood that Secretary,Shirley W. Smith: and Purchasing Agent John C. Christensen are to give such general supervision of the business affairs of the hospital as may be necessary until the next
meeting of the Board. This action is submitted for the
confirmation of the full Board.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
Ann Arbor, November I6, I915
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board continued the
appointment of Robert G. Greve as Superintendent pro tern
of the University Hospital, with salary at the rate of $I6oo
per year.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board directed that
the pay roll of November 30 should include the name of
the late Superintendent J. B. Draper for the entire month
of November, the check to be delivered to Superintendent
Draper's family.
A communication from    Professor C. T. Johnston   expressing the necessity of further provision of lands for
the use of the Surveying Department was, on motion of
Regent Hubbard, referred back to Professor Johnston for
an estimate of the expense involved.
The President recommended (see page 300) a leave of
absence on account of illness for Miss Alice Hunt, for
the first semester of the present year, with salary. On mo



3,18


DECE1lMBEtr     MiEETING,       91/5


tion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved this recommendation.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board denied the
request for improved alternating current service for the
Electrical Engineering Laboratory (see page 300).
The Secretary presented a report for the Treasurer
and himself, stating that the Auditor General of the State
had agreed that the Auditing Committee provided for in
Act 115, Public Acts of I9o9, might be a committee of one
or more persons outside the membership of the Board of
Regents. On motion of Regent Bulkley, this report was
approved and the Board appointed Mr. Claude Heacock as
the Regents' committee to compare and check the vouchers
with the abstracts and to initial one copy of each voucher,
until further notice.
The Secretary reported for the committee consisting of
Regent Sawyer and himself to which had been referred
the request of Professor Warthin for a laboratory attendant
(see page 304) that, in view of the transfer of Professor
Warthin's former laboratory man to the exclusive service
of the Department of Buildings and Grounds, the committee
had authorized the employment of a laboratory attendant
in the Department of Pathology, with the salary of not to
exceed $6oo per year.
The President reported that he had authorized a loan
from the 1894 Class fund to Mr. J. B. Jones, Jr. (see page
305).
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that
it was inexpedient to purchase a lot on Glen Avenue, tendered by Mr. James E. Harkins (see page 305).
A communication was received from Professor Walter
R. Parker stating the need from time to time for special
nursing in his clinic at the University Hospital. On motion
of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that out of the sum
of $1ooo set aside in the Hospital budget for special nurses,
Professor Peterson, the Medical Director of the Hospital,
might at his discretion use such sums as he believed necessary to provide for this special nursing in the eye clinic.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that
the night watchman employed at the University Hospital




I)CEM/IBER MEETING, 1915


3r9


should be transferred to the Buildings and Grounds Department, and that his responsibility hereafter should be
to the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds instead
of to the Superintendent of the University Hospital.
Regent Sawyer stated that he had carefully considered
the statements of facts submitted to him by Dr. James G.
Cumming and the Secretary relative to the salary adjustment during Dr. Cumming's recent leave of absence. Regent Sawyer moved that it be the sense of the Board that
Dr. Cumming had received $350 in excess of the proper
compensation and that this sum should be refunded. The
motion, prevailed.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board requested the
Buildings and Grounds Committee to prepare and submit
plans and estimates for a storeroom at the University
Hospital.
Regent Sawyer submitted correspondence with reference
to a request from the University Hospital for board and
room for an assistant in otolaryngology and an assistant in
surgery. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Regents voted
that the arrangement requested was not desirable, and that
the board and lodging which had been tentatively given by
the hospital pending the final adjustment of the matter
should be discontinued for the remainder of the fiscal year.
A request from  Dean Hoff that the Dental Building
might be used on Saturday afternoon for a special clinic
for Ann Arbor school children was referred, with power,
to the Executive Committee.
The following communication was received from the
Michigan Union:To the Honorable Board of Regents:I beg to call your attention to the following matters
relating to the Michigan Union:
At a conference held in Ann Arbor, Saturday, November 20, to which were invited the President of the University,
the President and Secretary of the Alumni Association,
the members olf the Union Alumni Advisory Committee,
of the Union Campaign Committee, of the Union Building
Committee, and the Chairmen or representatives of the
local campaign committees for the most important centers
in the country, the following resolution was adopted:




320


DECEMBRER MEETING,.T915


"Resolved, That the Board of Regents be requested to
appoint a committee of three selected from  the Alumni,
to act as a Finance Committee for the purpose of advising
with the Board of Regents respecting the deposit, investment, and handling of the Michigan Union Building Fund,
pending its expenditure for the construction and equipment
of the building."
I respectfully request, therefore, on behalf of this conference, if the resolution meets with your approval that
you appoint such a committee as is there called for, to
consist of three members.
Respectfully submitted,
HIENRY M/. BAT'rrS, Chairman
By HOMER L. -Ii:ATH, Secretary
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board appointed the
following alumni of the University to constitute the Advisory Finance Committee requested by the Michigan Union
Conference: Henry M. Campbell, '76, '781, Dexter         M.
Ferry, Jr., '92-'95, and Charles B. Warren, '9I.
The following communication was received:To the Honorable Board of Regents:At a meeting of the University Senate held November
8, the following resolution and report were adopted and
ordered transmitted to your Honorable Body for consideration.
Respectfully,
JOSEPH L. MARKLEY
Secretary of the Senate
Resolved, That the chairman of the Committee on
Student Affairs be, ex officio, a member of the Senate
Council...
I. General Statement. Beginning with the academic
year 1916-1917, compulsory military training shall be introduced into the University.
2. Amount of Compulsory Training. The compulsory
military training shall be equivalent to three one-hour
periods weekly.
3. Of Whom Required. Compulsory military training
as above described shall apply to all first and second year
male students of University colleges, viz.: the 'College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Colleges o-f Engineering and Architecture, the College of Pharmacy, and the




DECEMBER MEETING, 1915


321


College of Dental Surgery, except as exemptions are made
in the following section.
4. Exemptions. Exemptions from the requirements of
military training, as above stated, shall include: (a) students
over 25 years of age at the time of entering the University;
(b) students who enter the University with junior or more
advanced standing; (c) students who have had two years
of military training at some institution at which a United
States Army officer was on duty as Professor of Military
Science; (d) aliens who do not intend to become American
citizens, and (e) students physically disqualified. In case
physical disabilities are claimed as a ground for exemption, a petition made out in proper form is to be certified
'by the executive head of the Health Service of the University and submitted through the Military Office.
5.!Voluntary Military Training. The courses in military training shall be elective for students other than those
specified in the above section, and except for commissioned
officers of the corps, shall be without credit.
6. Federal Aid. Under Federal laws the immediate direction of military training shall be in the hands of a
Professor of Military Science, who shall also De Commandant of 'Cadets and a commissioned officer of the United
States Army, detailed by the War Department for the
purpose; this officer to be assisted by a retired non-commissioned officer of the United States Army, and, if permitted by the War Department, by additional commissioned
officers.  The larger control of the courses in military
training shall be vested in a Committee on Military Training of the University Senate, to consist of the President
of the University, one member from   each of the several
Colleges in which military training is compulsory, and the
Professor of 'Military Science.
7. Assistant Instructors in Military Science. As many
Assistant Instructors in Military 'Science as are deemed
necessary shall be selected from the field officers and captains of the cadet corps upon the recommendation of the
Professor of Military Science and approved by the Committee on Military Training. All commissioned officers shall
be required to take additional class room instruction in
Military Science equivalent to one hour weekly, with or
without credit as may be determined, and those c'hosen for
assistant instructors shall each receive a salary of $Ioo.oo
per year.




322


DECE2'rMBER,IEE7TING, 1915


8. Assign1ment to University Band. A suitable number
of students may be assigned by the Professor of Military
Science upon the recommendation of the Director of the
University Band to be musicians in the band, and satisfactory performance of their duties as musicians shall be accepted in lieu of the compulsory military training required
of other students.
9. Uniforms. Upon entering the University every male
freshman student of the Colleges and every student of the
Colleges. who enters the University for the first time with
standing less than that of the junior year shall deposit
with the Treasurer of the University a sum sufficient to
defray the cost of a uniform (about $I4.00). If later he
is exempted from military training, this sum shall be reimbursed to him. All uniforms shall be supplied through
the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the
recommendation of the Senate that the chairman of the
Committee on Student Affairs be ex-officio a member of
the Senate Council.
There took place a long discussion of that portion of
the Senate's communication recommending compulsory
military training in the University. Following the discussion, on motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board referred
the recommendation of the Senate to the Regents' committee on military instruction in the University, namely,
the President, Regent Hubbard, Regent Hanchett, Regent
Bulkley, and Regent Sawyer (see page I20) for consideration and report.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved the
traveling expense vouchers of Regent Sawyer for $I02.44,
covering the period from April I to November 3, I915, inclusive.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Dean of the Homceopathic Medical School,
certificates of graduation from the Homceopathic Hospital
Training School for Nurses were voted to the following:Inez Mae Carpenter        Georgia Anna Reno
Grace Jamieson             Roa B. Sanderson
Cecilia Lucile Humpsch




DECEMIBER MEETITNG, 1915


323


On motion of Regent Hanchett, in accordance with
the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School, degrees were conferred as follows:MASTER OF SCIENCE (in Engineering)
William  Grandin Calkins, B.Chl.E.
MASTER OF ARTS
Ethel Winifred Bennett Chase, A.B.
Edward Simpson Everett, A.B.
Ora Brooks Peake, A.B.
The following communications were received from the
ExCcutive Board of the Graduate School.         With respect
to the first letter see also page 330 in the report of the afternoon session:To the. Honorable Board of Regents:GENTLEMEN:At the meeting of the Executive Board of the Graduate School, held November II, I915, two fellowships were,offered the University as follows:I. The President read the following letter from  Mr.
W. R. Wooden, of Battle Creek, a graduate of the Law
School in I879.
"To the President and the Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan:GENTLE; MEN:It is my desire to establish a scholarship for one year
at the University of Michigan in memory of the late Mr.
Cho'lett C. Beach of Battle Creek. The amount of the
fund is $I,200.00.
This sum is offered for the express purpose of providing means for special research in hbacteriology, and it
is requested that I be permitted to designate the scholar
to be benefited thereby.
I ask that Dr.,Carl C. Warden be appointed to hold
the scholarship for the specified time or until the amount
of the fund shall have been exhausted.
I ask further that all requisitions or requests for material and supplies which he may deem necessary or desirable
for the research shall be honored; and also that whatever




324


3  DECEMIBER MlEETING, I91 -


of funds, within the limits of the sum specified, he;-,av
regard as necessary for space, material, supplies or assitance, which the University may not be able promptly to
furnish, shall be made available to him  on his request.
During the later years of Mr. Beach's life he was
keenly interested in the special research in which Dr.
Warden has been long engaged, and I have thought that
the interests of the medical world, the afflicted thousands
and the memory of iMir. Beach and his interest in this
particular research,,would be well served by the provisions of the scholarship.
Very truly yours.
W. R. WOODEN
Alumnus of the U. of M. Law Class, 1879
Battle Creek, Mich., November 3, I915"
2. The Dean reported that in a letter from Professor
A. IH. White, acting for Dean Cooley, a fellowship of
$600.00, for the year 191T-r916, was offered to the Chemical
Engineering Department of the University by the Detroit
Edison Company. The letter of this Company follows:"PROFE SSOR 'M. E. COOLEY, DEAN.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
DEAR SIR:Realizing the advantages which the University possesses for the carrying on of research work, and appreciating the mutual value resulting from a closer relationship between the University and ourselves,   we   take
pleasure in offering to the Chemical Engineering Department of your University, for the year I9I5-I916, $6oo.oo
for the establishment of a fellowship, to be known as
the Detroit Edison Fellowship.
Upon this fellowship we place no restrictions.  We
would ask, however, the privilege of determining the
research. We would further ask that the thesis of the
student engaged on the research be published as a regular
University Bulletin, at our expense if necessary, providing
that the subject matter appeals to us as warranting publicity in this way.
Yours truly,
THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY,
ALEX Dow, President
Detroit, November 2, 1915"




DECEM'1BER MEETINC, 1915 


325


The two fellowships being offered to the University
without any restrictions as to publication of results, the
Executive Board of the Graduate ISchool voted to recommend to the Board of Regents their acceptance and in the
case of the 'Cholett C. Beach Fellowship to recommend
that, as requested by the donor, Dr. Carl C. Warden be
appointed to hold it for the time and under the conditions
specified.
ALFRED H. LLOYD, Dean
On motion of Regent Hanchett, these gifts were accepted and the Secretary was directed to express the
thanks of the Board to Mr. Wooden and to President Dow
of the Detroit Edison Company.
Further, on motion of Regent Hanchett, Dr. Carl C.
Warden was appointed to the Cholett C. Beach Fellowship for the period and under the conditions specified in
Mr. Wooden's letter.
Regent Hlanchett presented the proposed budget otf
the Summer Session for 1I96. On motion of Regent Clements, the budget was adopted in the total sum of $69,391.53.
The budget in detail, as adopted, will be found as Appendix
A of the proceedings of this meeting (see page 338).
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
'he Board reassembled at I:40 P. M'.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal,
Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent
Bulkley, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent,
Regent Hanchett.
Mr. Albert Kahn and Librarian W. W. Bishop appeared
and presented proposed plans for the new Library.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the drawings and plans of the Library
building as presented by Mr. Albert Kahn and the Library Committee be approved by this Board, and that the




326


DECEMBER 1lJEETING, 19rI


general design of this building as shown in perspective
sketch "A" be selected;
Further, that the architect be instructed to complete
the plans and specifications so that bids may be secured
on the same; and
Further, that the architect be instructed so to draw
plans and specifications that separate bids may be secured
on the west wing o'f the building without provision for
the book-stacks.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
expenditure of not over $215 out of the appropriation of
$2500 already made (see page 98), for the general purpose of adding to the mineralogical collection, to acquire a
certain specimen of mass copper.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board approved the
traveling expense vouchers of Regent Leland for $63.21
for the period from February Io to November 2, 1915, inclusive.
On Motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $Ioo, making $450 in all, was added to the appropriation of October
15 (see page 278) for the outdoor running track.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $586.15 was
added to an allowance included in the Repairs account, for
sterilizing room repairs at the University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside the
sum of $I80 to purchase police uniforms for Buildings and
Grounds employees on duty at the Hill Auditorium entertainments and on the various special occasions of the
University year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to
Regent Clements, with power, the matter of a permanent
moving-picture booth in the Hill Auditorium.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside the
sum of $344.94 for miscellaneous repairs in the Old Engineering Building.
On motion of Regent Clements, the use of $500 from
the Heating, Power and Lighting Plant account for the
purchase of certain equipment was approved.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $3500 was
set aside for painting the interior walls and the cement
floors of the new Science Building.




DECEMBER MEETINITG, 1915


327


On motion of Regent Clements, the Board requested
the President to appoint a committee to investigate the
question of heating of rooms in University buildings on
Sunday. The President appointed Regent Clements and
Regent Beal as such committee.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That Regent Junius E. Beal be nominated
to the Governor of Michigan for membership in the
Public Domain Commission.
Regent Leland reported that in accordance with the
authority given him  (see page 300) he had consented to
the sale of the American Brass Company stock in the
estate of the late Williston S. Hough, and that such sale
had been made at a purchase price of 252 5/8.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board granted the
request of the Detroit Recreation Commission, per its Superintendent Mr. I. W. Jayne, for the use of property on
34th Street between  McGraw    Avenue and   Devereaux
Avenue, as a public skating rink during the coming winter.
Regent Leland reported the advantageous renting of
certain of the Phillips properties in Philadelphia which had
been repaired in accordance with his recommendation (see
page 263).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Chairman of the Finance Committee be requested to investigate the farm loans offered
by the Peters Trust Company of Omahla, and if he approves such loans, to make investments therein of $3o,ooo
or less of the University trust funds.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized an
expense of $I30 for fitting up a room in the basement of
the medical building at the University Hospital as a laboratory for the dermatology clinic.
A communication was received from Mrs. Clara B. Bates
as Chairman of the Infirmary Committee of the Collegiate
Alumnae, requesting that the Regents provide an infirmary




328


DECE. rIBER MEETING, 19Ir


for University women, and tendering the co-operation of
the Association of Collegiate Alumnae for this purpose.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, this communication was referred to the Medical Committee for investigation and
report.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
the contract with Henry & Company (see page I66) for
academic dress for Commencement and Convocation should
be continued for 1916.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the payment of $100.52 covering installment for paving tax
on two streets bounding the Prettyman property purchased
in I914.
Superintendent Keeler was excused.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
telephone service proposed by the Secretary for the new
Science Building and added the sum of $I44 to the telephone account, in order to meet the expense.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred, with
power, to Regent Bulkley and the Secretary all questions
arising in connection with the enforcement of the University's contracts for coal.
The Secretary stated to the Board that the present
University motor truck was badly worn, and raised the
questions whether it was more advisable to repair the truck,
or to exchange it, and if exchange were made what style
of equipment would be best adapted to meet the Campus
needs. On motion of Regent Gore, the entire matter of
the truck service was referred, with power, to the Secretary, the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, and
the Purchasing Agent.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board voted that all
"M" students should be given free locker privileges in the
Gymnasium.
The President filed a report from Professor Hildner,
chairman of the Board of Advisers to Foreign Students.
The President presented the following report of the
Executive Committee which, on motion of Regent Gore,
was approved:



DECEMBER MEETING, 1I9 15


329


To the Regents of the University of Mlichigan:GENTLEMEN:At a meeting   of your Executive Committee held
November 15, 1915, the attached communication from Professor W. D. Henderson, Director of Extension Service,
was considered and permission given to organize extension
courses in Grand Rapids and Battle Creek under the conditions set forth in said communication. Immediate action was necessary in order that the courses might be
started on time.  Therefore your Executive Committee
regarded the case as an emergency one. We report our
action for the confirmation of the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXIECUTITE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WAL'rTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
Ann Arbor, November I6, 1915
The President presented a further report from the
Executive Committee which, on motion of Regent Leland,
was approved:To the Regents of the University of Michigan:GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee, at a meeting held November I5,, 915, accepted the gift described in the annexed communication and authorized the establishment of
the fellowship (scholarship) described therein.  Previous
to the meeting of the Committee, the matter was submitted,to the Executive Board of the Graduate School.   T'his
Board acted upon it favorably and recommended     the
appointment of Dr. Carl C. Warden as the person to hold
this fellowship for the present year.  It will be noticed
that the fund is to be used entirely for the purchase of
materials and appliances for experimentation.  It was
necessary that immediate action be taken in order that Dr.
Warden might enter upon 'his work.
Respectfully submitted with the request that the action may be confirmed by the full Board.
EXECUTIVE ICOMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
Ann Arbor, November 15, I9I5




330


DECEMBER MEETING, 1915


The communication referred to in the report of the
Executive Committee was the letter from   Mr. W. R.
Wooden, appearing above on page 323).
The President presented a claim in writing from the
Rev. E. S. Buchanan for services as editor of certain manuscripts. On motion of Regent Clements this claim was
disallowed on the ground that the obligation, if there be
any, could not be considered as in any sense al obligation of the University.
)On motion of Regent Leland, the Board allowed a loan
of $75 from the 1894 Class Fund, to be repaid October I,
9G16, to Mr. Harold Walker Graham.
Following recommendation by the President, on motion of Regent Leland, Professor Louis A. Strauss was
appointed to succeed Dean A. H. Lloyd as chairman of
the Senate Committee on Student Affairs.  The Secretary
was directed to ascertain the date on which the appointment
of Professor Strauss took effect and to adjust the compensation provided for this chairmanship accordingly.
A communication from   Professor Kelsey stated that
he had received from Mr. Warren F. Thummel, of New
York City, a coronation medal of Queen Charlotte, as
a gift for the University. On motion of Regent Clements,
this gift was accepted and the President requested to notify
Mr. Thummel of the thanks of the Board.
The President filed with his approval a communication
from Dean Hinsdale in which the salary to be paid Dr. R.
R. Mellon, on leave, (see page I89) was adjusted at $I300,
the balance of Dr. Mellon's salary, $300, to be paid to
Mr. W. C. R. Voigt for extra work assumed by Mr.
Voigt during Dr. Mellon's absence.  Dr. H. M. Beebe
and Dr. M. A. Darling will assume a large part of Dr.
Mellon's lectures and  demonstrations without financial
compensation.
The following communication was received from Director Hend:rson, and on motion of Regent Hubbard, the
appointments as recommended were confirmed:



DECEMBER MEETING, 1g915


33I


PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
MY DEAR PRESIDENT HUTCHINS:I am writing you with reference to the appointment
of instructors and assistants for the University Extension
courses (Credit Plan) in Detroit, Saginaw, Grand Rapids,
and Battle Creek.   I desire to recommend for appointment the following persons:Detroit CoursesProfessor R. M. Wenley, Philosophy, $300.o0
Professor W. A. Frayer, History.... 300.00
Professor T. E. Rankin, Rhetoric.... 300.00
Professor H. R. Cross, Art.......... 3oo.co
Saginaw CourseProfessor S. F. Gingerich, English Literature........................... 36o.oo
Battle Creek CourseProfessor C. H. Van Tyne, United
States  History....................  250.00
(and expenses)
AssistantsMrs. R. M. Wenley, Assistant to Professor Wenley....................... 75.00
Mr. R. H. 'McLean, Assistant to Professor  Frayer.......................  75.00
Miss Ruth Butler, Assistant to Professor  Rankin........................  Ioo.oo
Miss Ella S. Hoghton, Assistant to Professor  Cross......................  75.00
'Mr. Archie Jordan, for operating lantern in connection with Professor
Cross's lectures in Detroit, $I per
evening...........................  I6.00
Yours Sincerely,
November 24,  5  W. D. HENDERSON, Director
November  24, I9I5
The Board declined to make an appropriation for the
expenses of Professor John R. Allen to attend a meeting
of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in New
York.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized
the payment up to $50, of the expenses of Professor Emil
Lorch in order to enable him to attend, as Vice President,
the meetings of the Collegiate Architectural Association,




332


DECEMBER MWEETING, 19 r5


and, as a member, the American Institute of Architects,
these meetings to be held in Washington and New York,
respectively.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board voted not to
exceed $40 toward the expenses of Professor Aubrey Tealdi
while in attendance at the meeting of the American Society
of Landscape Architects in New York.
A communication from Dean Cooley stated that Olivet
College had asked for a combined five-year Literary-Engineering course similar to that already arranged for with
Albion College. The Board authorized an expense of not
to exceed $20 to enable a committee of the Engineering
College to visit Olivet for conference on this subject.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board declined at this
time to increase the salary of Mr. C. E. Wilson, Instructor
in Mechanical Engineering.
The following letters expressing the terms of the
fellowship given by Mr. Roy D. Chapin, of Detroit (see
page 274), were received:PROFESSOR ALFRED H. LLOYD,
Graduate School.
DEAR SIR:I am handing you herewith a letter from Mr. Roy D.
Chapin relative to a fellowship in Highway Engineering.
The offer was made some time in October and I think has
been acknowledged by the Regents but the conditions were
to be submitted to Mr. Chapin and agreed upon.
Last Saturday I had a conference with him and we
reached an oral agreement as follows:The fellowship is to be given as the R. D. 'Chapin Fellowship in Highway Engineering.
It is open to graduates in Civil Engineering of the
University or of the Agricultural College and it is the desire
of Mr. Chapin if possible to restrict it to citizens of,Michigan who intend to reside in Michigan.
The research work done by the holder of the fellowship is to be along the lines of the determination of the
best wearing surfaces for highway construction in the State,
and is to include the investigation either of strength of materials or methods of construction or effect of traffic on
different classes of the more permanent type of road construction.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1915


333


The results of all investigations' are to be published for
the benefit of the people of the State of Michigan, and
are to be published in such form that they may be available to the people interested in the subject.
As the offer was made it was a straight $5oo fellowship without provision for any money for expenses. Necessarily, any investigation of this sort is going to involve
a considerable amount of expense in the way of labor in
building sample pieces of roadway for testing, setting up
of equipment, etc., and Professor Hoad and myself felt that
to get the most effective work we should have an ample
allowance for expenses.  I therefore brought the matter
to Mr. Chapin's attention with the result that he has made
the offer as per the enclosed letter.  You understand that
we will probably have no difficulty in securing free 9f
cost to the University all the materials we need for testing.
I hope that by the beginning of the second semester
we may be able to recommend some one who is of the
right calibre to handle this very important work.
I am sending the matter to you in order that further
official correspondence regarding the final acceptance of the
gift shall be in accordance with the ideas of the Graduate
ABoard.
Yours very truly,
H. E. RIGGS
November 26, I915
PROF. H. E. RIGGS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
iMY DEAR PROF. RIGGS:Confirming our conversation the other day, I will make
my fellowship for two years at $5o00.00 a year, and an allowance of $250.00 for expenses. I shall be glad to send a
check for $I,5oo to the Treasurer of the University when
you finally approve of the plans.
I should like to consult with whomever you grant the
fellowship to, and keep in touch from time to time as to
what progress he makes. Am so muclh interested in the subject that I might be of some help as to suggestions for
research. Don't you think that he ought to be a Michigan
citizen who intends living here in the State?
Very truly yours,
R. D. CHAPIN
November 24, I915




334


DECEMBER MEE'TING, 1915


On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board expressed its
approval of the terms attached to the fellowship and directed
the Secretary to renew to Mr. Chapin the Regents' appreciation of his co-operation.
A letter was received from the Detroit' Copper and
Brass Rolling Mills with respect to the terms of a fellowship which this corporation might establish in the University.  Professor Alfred H. White appeared before the
Board and spoke upon the questions involved.  On motion
of Regent Bulkley, the letter of the Detroit Copper and
Brass Rolling M\ills was referred to a committee consisting of Dean Cooley and Regent Bulkley for personal
consideration with the officials of the Rolling Mills.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
an additional assistant at the delivery desk in the main
reading room of the General Library, at the salary rate of
$6oo per year. $350 was added to the budget to meet this
salary for the remainder of the year.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School, Charles
Ralph Eckler, B.S. (Phar.), was granted the degree of
Master of Science in Pharmacy.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
Harold Francis Wood, A.B., B.Ch.E., was appointed to
the fellowship given by the Detroit Edison Company, with
stipend of $500oo  (See pages 324 and 325).
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the College of Pharmacy, degrees were conferred
as follows: 
Harold Ralph Wells, Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy
Arthur Joseph Halgren, Pharmaceutical Chemist
William Louis Seibert, Graduate in Pharmacy
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
following nominations by the University Senate for membership in the Board in Control of Athletics for the remainder of the year ending May 31 next:Professor R. W. Aigler
Professor W. T. Fishleigh
Professor L. M. Gram
Professor Reuben Peterson




DECEMBE? MEETING, 1915


335


Regents Clements was excused.
The following communication was received from        the
estate of the late Francis MI. Hamilton, a member of the
Class of I869:PRESIDENT HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
DEAR SIR:We are inclosing a check for $I,ooo, which amount was
willed to t!he University of Michigan by the late F. M.
Hamilton to be used in the construction of a new University Hall.
Due to the fact that such a building has already been
erected, and in accordance with your splendid and greatly
appreciated suggestion, the Estate desires that this sum
shall be used as a loan fund for needy students and be
called the F. 'M. Hamilton Loan Fund.
The Estate wishes to have said fund administered by
the President and the Dean of the Department in which
the applicant is enrolled, or by any other method that
may be more satisfactory to the University.
We deem this a most appropriate use to which to
put this bequest, and a use which would have been a
source of much joy'and satisfaction to the giver, who
found it necessary to earn all the money for his education, while going througih this University.
Hoping this fund may prove a blessing to many worthy
students in the years to come, we remain
Very truly yours,
F. M. HAMILTOI N ESTATE,
F. G. Hamilton
427 S. Fifth Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.,
November II, i915
On motion of Regent Leiand, this gift was accepted and
the loan fund established in accordance with the conditions.
The President was requested to express the thanks of the
Regents to the Hamilton estate.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board voted that when
adjournment took place the adjournment should be to
January 6, I916.




336


DECEMl'BER M.lEETIJNG, 1I15


Dean Vaughan reported to the Regents the resignation,
to take effect at the end of December, of Dr. James G.
Cumming, Director of the Pasteur Institute, in order that
Dr. Cumming might accept the position of Director of the
Bureau of Communicable Diseases under the       California
State Board of Health. On motion of Regent Leland, Dr.
Cumming's resignation was accepted.
On motion of Regent Leland, in accordance with the
recommendation of Dean Vaughan, Herbert W. Emerson,
B.S., M.D., was appointed to succeed Dr. Cumming as Director of the Pasteur Institute at the same salary which
Dr. Cumming has been receiving.      The vacancy in the
Assistantship in Hygiene (water analysis) created by the
promotion of Dr. Emerson is to be filled in due course on
nomination by Dean Vaughan.
The Board took no action at this time on the request
of the members of the Junior class in the Medical School
that this class might be permitted to register in I916-19I17
at the present fees charged in the Medical School instead of
at the new fees fixed to begin with I916-I917.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board set aside the sum
of $70 to provide equipment for the Department of Semitics.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board confirmed the
following appointments made by the Secretary to positions
provided for in the budget. All appointments are for the
academic year, unless otherwise stated:Clair G. Hoover, Assistant in 'Mechanical Engineering,
with salary of $60o.
Dr. Lucy E. Boland, Assistant Physician to Dr. Elsie Seelye
Pratt, from November I, 1915 to the end of the present
University year, 'with salary at the rate of $Iooo per
year.,Leonard iSiev, Assistant in the Dental Library, with salary
of $5,o, 'payable out of the Dental Laboratory fee fund.
Willy K. R. Voigt, Assistant in the Clinical Laboratory in
the Homoeopathic Medical School, with salary of $200.,Mrs. Etta M. Durfee, Stenographer in the Purchasing Department, from November I, I915, with salary at the
rate of $6oo per year, twelve-months' basis.




DECEMBER M EETING, 1915


337


Adeline Boaz, Stenographer in the Purchasing Department, November I, I915, salary fixed at the rate of $650,
twelve-months' basis, succeeding Phebe C. O'Reiley,
resigned.
Edwin A. Boyd, Assistant in the Highway Laboratory, with
salary of $6oo.
Walter William Kurtz, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice W. C. Thompson, resigned, for the balance
of the University year from November II, 1915, with
salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Ned R. Smith, Assistant in the Hygienic Laboratory, vice
R. W. Pryer, resigned, for the balance of the University
year from November 15, I915, with salary at the rate
of $750 per year.
Samuel S. Kaplan, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice
Thomas K. Hutson, resigned, for the balance of the
University year from November 12, 1915, with salary
at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Richard T. Liddicoat, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics,
on account of the amount of work, salary changed from
$Io0 to $150 per year.
Arthur A. Burrell, Assistant in Engineering Meclhanics,
on account of the amount of work, salary changed from
$Ioo to $150 per year.
Frank G. Riecks, Assistant in Engineering Mechanics, on
account of the amount of work, salary changed from
$Ioo to $I50 per year.
Mrs. Ruth E. Page, Stenographer in the office of the Dean
of the College of Engineering, from November 6, I915,
with salary of $50 per month, twelve-months' basis.
On motion of Regent Beal, in'accordance with a communication received from     Professor F. M. Taylor, the
compensation of Mr. W. P. Calhoun, Reader in Economics,
was changed from $300 for the present semester to $500.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to January 6, I916.
SHIRLEY W. SMITHI, Secretary




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS OC) D:-ECEMBERR I, I15


Budget for the Summer
Session of 1916
As APPRovD)Nc   DEC1lMPrR I. [SIE: P\AGC: 325.]


I916       IQI5
Literature, Science, and the Arts $36,2II.69 $33,213.36
Engineering and Architecture...    10,463.34  10,063.34
Medicine.......................    5,56.oo  5,34000oo
Law............................,oo.      6,ooo.oo
Pharmacy......................    700.00     600.00
Biological Station...............  4,121.50   3,921.50
Library Methods................   I, 70.00    80.00
Embalming and Sanitary Science       77o.00     720.00
Administration..................  1,525.00,625.00
Current Expense................    2,865.00o  2,71.00
$69,391.53  $65,083.20


Increase
or Decrease
- $2,998.33
--  400.00
---  225.00
4- ioo.oo
1-   200.00
+    280.00
*-+   50.00
-    I00,00
-+    55.00
+ $4,308.33


COLLEGE O? I,ITERATURE. SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS


Hrs.   1916
GreekProfessor C. Bonner......... 64 $500.00
Associate Prof. J. G. Winter. 32    200.00


I915      Increase


$  700.00  $  633.33  +$


66.67


LatinProfessor F. W. Kelsey...... 64 $500.00
Professor C. L. Meader..... 64    500.00
Associate Prof. J. G. Winter. 32   200.00
Asst. Prof. A. R. Crittenden 96    400.00
Instructor ---....... 32  I00.00
1,700.00   1,666.67  +     33.33
SemiticsProfessor L. Waterman...... 64      500.00   500.00             +    500.00




,-APPENVDIX                              339
Hrs. I916                  I915     Increase
Romance Languages 
Professor....... 64  500.00
Professor....... 64  500.00
Associate Professor-          64 400.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
Instructor   ---....... 6  300oo00oo
Instructor....... 96  300.00
2,600.00   2,300.00  +   300.00
The equivalent of five new two hour
courses in Spanish to be provided
for.
GermanProfessor Max Winkler..... 64     500.00
Professor E. Boucke......... 64    500.00
Assoc. Prof. T. Diekhoff.... 64   400.00
Assoc. Prof. J. A. C. Hildner 64   400.00
Asst. Prof. W. W. Florer.... 64    266.67
Asst. Prof. C. E. Eggert..... 64  266.67,
Asst. Prof. J. W. Scholl..... 64   266.67
2,600.01   2,600.01
EnglishProfessor I. N. Demmon.... 64     500:00
Professor L. A. Strauss...... 64  500.00
Assoc. Prof. M. P. Tilley... 64   400.00
Assoc. Prof. S. Moore....... 64   400.00
Asst. Prof. W. R. Humphreys 96 400.00
Asst. Prof. S. F. Gingerich... 96  400.00
2,600.00   2,300.00  -t  300.00
RhetoricAssoc. Prof. T. E. Rankin... 64 400.00
Asst. Prof. J. R.   rumm.... 96 400oo.oo
Asst. Prof. W. D. Moriarty.. 32    I33.33
Instructor H. S. Mallory....96   300.00
Instructor R. W. Cowden....32 Ioo.oo
Instructor L. L. Bryson..... 64   200.00
Assistant ------.........oo
1,583.33   I,450.0o  -   133.33




340                            A PP'ND[X
1,200.00   1,000.00  +   200.00
OratoryProfessor T. C. Trueblood... 64 500.00
Asst. Prof. R. D. T. Hollister 96 400.00
Instructor R. K. Immel...... 96   300.00
Fine ArtsProfessor H. R. Cross....... 64    5oo.oo
Assistant ---........      20.00
520.00                  520.00
HistoryProfessor E. W. Dow....... 32 250.00
Professor E. R. Turner..... 64    500.00
Professor H. E. Bolton...... 64   500.00
Professor....... 64  500.
Assistant Prof.      --... 64  266.67
2,016.67   1,766.66  4-  250.00
Hrs. I106                  I915      Increase
Political Economy and SociologyProfessor D. Friday......... 64  500.00
Professor I. L. Sharfman.... 64  500.00
Asst. Prof. D. W. Dowrie.... 96 400.00
Instructor W. S. Thompson.. 96     300.00
Instructor F. E. Armstrong.. 96   300.00
Instructor R. G. Rodkey..... 64 200.00
2,200.00   1,700.00  --  500.00
Political ScienceProfessor J. S. Reeves...... 64   500.00
Assistant Professor       -- 64    266.67
766.67     766.67
PhilosophyProfessor R. M.     enley.... 64  500.00
Professor W. B. Pillsbury... 32 250.00
Asst. Prof. C. B. Vibbrt.... 64  266.67
Asst. Prof. R. W. Sellars.... 64 266.67
Asst. Prof. D. H. Parker.... 32    I33.33
Instructor H. F. Adams...... 96   300.00
Assistant N. L. Perkins......     I20.00
1,836.67   1,720.00  +   116.67




AqPPI'NDIX                                341
Hrs.  1916                 1915      Increase
or
DecreasoEducationProfessor A. S. Whitney..... 64    500.00
Associate Prof. C. 0. Davis...64   400oo.oo
Assistant Prof. C. S. Berry.. 64 '266.67
Assistant Prof. F. S. Breed.. 64   266.67
Assistant Prof. G. L. Jackson 64   266.67
1,700.01.,7oo.or
MathematicsProfessor W. W. Beman.... 64       500.00
Professor J. L. Markley..... 64   500.00
Associate Prof. WV. B. Ford.. 64   400.00
Assoc. Prof. L. C. Karpinski 64    400.00
Assistant Prof. --... 96  400.00
Instructor...... 64   200o.oo
Instructor -....... 64  200.00
2,600.00   2,566.67  --    33. 33
AstronomyProfessor W. J. Hussey..... 32     250.00
Assoc. Prof. R. H. Curtiss... 32   200.00
Instructor P. W. Merrill.... 32   I00.00
Visitors' Nights............   I.00
56o.oo     560.00
PhysicsAssoc. Prof. H. M. Randall.. 64    400.00
Assoc. Prof. A. W. Smith... 64     400.00
Assoc. Prof. W. D. Henderson 64    400.00
Asst. Prof. N. H. Williams.. 96    400.00
Asst. Prof. W. F. Colby..... 96    400.00
Instructor D. L. Rich........ 96   300.00
Instructor G. A. Lindsay..... 96   300.00
Instructor C. V. Kent....... 96    30o.00
2,900.00   2,933.33  -     33.33




342                            APPEINDIX
Hrs. I9I6                  I915      Increase
ofr
Decrease
ChemistryAssoc. Prof. L. H. Cone..... 64   400.00
Assoc. Prof. D. M. Lichty... 64    400.00
Asst. Prof. W. G. Smeaton.. 64 266.67
Asst. Prof. H. H. Willard... 96.oo.oo
Instructor H. N. Cole....... 96    300.00
Instructor F. E. Bartell...... 96  300.00
Instructor J. E. Harris...... 64   200.00
Instructor R. K. McAlpine... 96    300.00
Instructor A. L. Ferguson.... 64   200.00
Instructor --....... 96  300.00
9 Assistants at $40..........      360.00
3,426.67   3,293.33  +    133.34
MineralogyProfessor E. H. Kraus...... 32     250.00
Asst. Prof. W. F. Hunt...... 96    400.00
Assistant A. B. Peck........      I00.00
750.00     825.00        75.00
GeologyAssistant Prof. I. D. Scott... 96  400.00
Assistants..................      50.00
Excursion Fund............         25.00
475.00     475.00
ZoologyAssociate Prof. 0. C. Glaser 32    200.00
Assist. Prof. G. R. LaRue... 64    266.67
Assistants..................     125.00
591.67    5. i.67
BotanyAssoc. Prof. J. B. Pollock... 64   400.00
Asst. Prof. C. H. Kauffman.. 96    400.00
Asst. Prof. H. H. Bartlett... 96   400.00
Assistants..................     I55.oo
Excursion Fund............         10.00
1,365.oo   1,3(5,0 o




APPENDIX                                   343
Hrs.   I916                 1915      Increase
or
Decrease
Landscape DesignAssociate Prof. A. Tealdi.... 64    400.00    400.00      400.00
Physical TrainingDirector G. A. May......... 64      400.00
Instructor -..... 64                200.00
A ssistant...................      20.00
620.00      6o00.00       20.00
$36,211.69  $33,213.36    $2,998.33
COLLEGES O0 ENGINEERING AND ARCH:TECTURE
EnglishAsst. Prof. W. D. Moriarty.. 64 $266.67
Instructor                      6....... 64  200.00
$466.67     $500.00  -    $33.33
GermanAsst. Professor A. 0. Lee... 64     266.67
Instructor W. F. Hauhart.... 96     300.00
Instructor H. 0. Schwabe.... 64    200.00
766.67      766.67
FrenchInstructor A. F. Hurlburt.... 96    300.00
Instructor W. R. Rathke..... 64     200.00
500.00      6oo00.00  -   oo.o
MathematicsInstructor...... 96   300.00
Instructor      -....... 80  250.00
Instructor ....... 80             250.00
800.00      800.00
DrawingAssistant Professor      -      96  400.00
Instructor      -....... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
I,.0      1,000.00,000.00




344                             APPENDIX
Hrs.   1916                I915       Increase
or
Shop Work-                                                           Decrease
Instructor W. R. McDonald..          40.00    40.00       40.00
SurveyingProfessor C. T. Johnston....       55o.oo
(Director of Bogardus Engineering Camp)
Asst. Prof. H. H. Atwell.... 96    400.00
Assistant   --     -........      I50.00
1,100.00   1,100.00
Engineering MechanicsAssistant Professor -          96   400.00
Assistant Professor       -    96   400.00
Instructor -   -....... 64   200.00
1,000.00     866.67  -t.  133.33
Mechanical EngineeringProfessor S. J. Zowski...... 64    500oo.oo
Assistant Professor            96   400.00
Assistant Professor    --      80   333.33
Assistant Professor -     -    64  266.67
1,500.00   I,150.00  --   350.00
Electrical EngineeringProfessor B. F. Bailey...... 64    500.00
Professor H. H. Higbie..... 32    250.00
Assistant Prof. A. H. Lovell 96     4o0.00
Asst. Prof. T. J. MacKavanagh 96   40o.oo
1,550.00   s,6oo.oo  --    50.0o
Chemical EngineeringProfessor -    -....... 64  500.oo
Assistant Professor       -    96  400.00
Assistant Professor -          96   400.00
Assistant...................       40.00
1,340.00   1,240.00  +-   100.00
ArchitectureAssistant Professor      ---- 96    400.00   400.00      400.00
$10,463.34  $o0,063.34  + $ 400.0o




APPENDIX                                 345
MEDICAI, SCHOOL
Hrs. I916                  I915      Increase
or
Decrease
AnatomyInstructor J. L. Worcester... 90 $225.00
Assistant...................     I00.00
Assistant...................      Ioo.00
$425.00    $325.00 +2    $Ioo.oo
HistologyInstructor....... 90 225.00    225.00             4-   225.00
BacteriologyInstructor    --.......    225.00    225.00     225.00
Physiological ChemistryInstructor.......90   225.00   225.00     225.00
PhysiologyInstructor O. M. Cope....... o   225.00
Assistant..................       50o.o00
275.00     225.00  -r-   50.00
PathologyProfessor A. S. Warthin.... 60    375.00
Instructor C. V. Weller...... 90  225.00
6o0.00     6oo.00
PharmacologyInstructor M. I. Smith....... 60  22.00
Assistant...................     I00.00
325.00     475.00  -    150.00
SurgeryInstructor W. A. Hoyt...... 90 225.00
Professor I. D. Loree....... 60  I5.oo
375.00     450.00 -      73.cG
MedicineInstructor H. B. Schmidt.... 90 225.00
Instructor Q. 0. Gilbert..... 90 225.00
450.00     6oo.oo --    I o.oo




346                           APPENDIX
Hrs. I916                 I915      Increase
Nervous DiseasesProfessor C. D. Camp....... 60 375.00      375.00     375.00
OphthalmologyProfessor W. R. Parker.....60    300.00   300.00     300.00
OtolaryngologyProfessor R. B. Canfield.... 60  375.00
Supplies....................     40o.oo
415.00     340.0o  --   75.o0
GynecologyInstructor F. M. Loomis..... 90 225.00
Instructor R. A. Bartholomew 90   225.00
Instructor L. L. Bottsford... 90 225.00
675.00     675.00
Dermatology and SyphilologyProfessor U. J. Wile......    60 375.00    375.00     300.00  +     75.00
Vaccines and Serum TherapyAsst. Prof. P. H. DeKruif.. 90    300.00   300.00     225.00  +     75.00
$5,565.00  $5,340.00  + $ 225.00
LAW SCHOOL
I9i6                I915
Professor     -   -  (Contracts).$I,ooo.oo
Professor T. A. Bogle (Common
Law Pleading and Code Pleading)..........................  625.00
Professor E. C. Goddard (Agency,
Bailments, and Carriers).......  625.00
Professor           (Property II)   375.o0
Prof. R. W. Aigler (Prop. III)      500.00
Professor           (Trusts).....  500.00
Professor           (Equity II)..   500.00
Professor E. Holbrook (Torts)..     500.00
Professr V. H. Lane (Evidence)      500.00
Prof. E. N. Durfee (Mortgages)..    250.00
Prof. J. R. Rood (Judgments and
Wills)........................  625.00
$6,000.o0  $6,ooo.oo




4-PP.E.NDIX


347


COLLeCG1 0o' PH1ARMAtCY
ip)i6
Professor C. H. Stocking........$ 5co.oo
Instructor --  -............  200.00
7O(
BIOLrC(Gc -t, S.TAI'[ON
I916
Assistant Professor.. --- ...  4o.oo
Assistant Professor    --      -...    4oo.o
Assistant Professor --           -...  400.00
Assistant Professor -------             oo.oo
Instructor.......................    300.00
Instructor.......................    300.00
Research Assistant..............     Ioo10.
Assistants........................   250.00
Director           -.................  75.oo
Dean of Women            --......    5o.oo
Equipment.......................   200.00


1915      Increase


).00  Goo.oo


10.0C.C


I913       Increase


Temporary Repairs and Current
Expense....................... 1,246.50


$4,I2Tr.5


$3,921.50


$200.00


LIBRARY METH-ODS
I916
Director W. W. Bishop.......... $500.00
Instructor F. L. D. Goodrich...... I5o.oo
Instructor F. B. (illette..........  00.00
Instructor E. A. Smith............ Ico0.
Instructor W. C. Hollands....... I o10.
Instructor ----............   75.00
Lecturer on Children's Work.....      50.00
Lecturer S. H. Ranck.............    20.00
Lecturer A. S. Root...............   25.00
Supplies.........................  50.00
$1,7000oo
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Associate Prof. W. J. Hale........ $20o.oo
Instructor in Anatomy...........    I0.00
Instructor in Bacteriology..........  50.00
Instructor in Embalming..........   I5.00
Instructors (Autopsies and Law)..   0o.oo
Assistant in Chemistry............   20.00


1915      Increase
$890.0o      $2'0.o0
1915      Increase


$77o.00   $720.00     $50.0o




348


APPENDIX


ADMINISTRATION
TIi6
Professor E. H. Kraus, Dean..... $500.oo
Assoc. Prof. T. E. Rankin, Sec... 300.00
Prof. A. G. Hall, Registrar, Literature, Science, and the Arts.....  oo0.o
Instructor L. A. Hopkins, Sec.,
Engineering and Architecture... Ioo.oo
Prof. C. W. Edmunds, Sec., Medicine..........................   100.00
Prof. E. C. Goddard, Sec., Law.. 200.00
Prof. A. H. Lloyd, Dean, Graduate
School.........................   Ioo10.
Acting Dean of Women -oo.oo
Assistant in Law Library.........   25.oo


1915      Decrease


$1,525.00  $I,625.00


$Ioo.oo


GENERAL ESXPiENSE
(Tentative distribution subject to change within the total amount)


I9i6
6,ooo Announcements, general,
complete.......................  $450.00
Io,ooo Announcements, Embalming
and Sanitary Science..........   50.00
Io,ooo Announcements, Law...... IOO.O
I,00000 Announcements, general,
abridged.......................  750.00
5,000 Announcements, Pharmacy,
inserts.........................  I5.00
Non-resident lecturers........... 200.00
Stenographer....................  6o.oo
Messenger and clerical assistance..  35.00
Lecture Attendant...............   50.00
Stationery and printing........... 250.00
Postage.........................   50.00o
Incidentals.......................  75.00
Janitor Service..................  90.00


1915      Increase


$2,865.00  $2,71o.oo   $155.00




JANUARY MEETING
UJNIVERSITY F01 MICHIGAN, }
ANN ARBOR, January 6, 1916. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room    at Io A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, and Regent Bulkley. Absent,
Regent Sawyer, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler.
Dr. Peterson, Medical Director of the University Hospital, appeared and presented to the Board an oral statement of conditions at the University Hospital due to an
outbreak of influenza among the nurses.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of December I were approved as submitted to the members in press proof, with corrections on pages 313 and 334.
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with the
recommendations of the Board in Control of Athletics, a
refund of the outdoor physical education fee was directed
in the case of six students and denied in the case of four
students.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted compensation of $50 each to Professor R. M. AVenley and Professor Alexander ZiwNet for services rendered to the Graduate School in the interim between the death of the late
Dean Guthe and the appointment of Dean Lloyd.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley recommending, if the unexpended salary allowances in the
Engineering College administration budget should permit,
that there should be appointed for the second semester, at
a salary of $Ioo for the semester, a student assistant in
mathematics who should also give services to the Secretary
of the Engineering College, to a total for both services of
twenty-four hours weekly. On motion of Regent Hubbard.




350.30L wiNUAi R  MiI J'i EE TIiNG, gr916


such appointment was authorized on the conditions stated
in Dean Cooley's communication.
The Secretary reported for Regent Bulkley and himself
that fire insurance of $40,000 had been placed on the Psychopathic Hospital and $9,ooo on the contents in accordance with authority given at the November meeting (see
page 300).
The Secretary presented an opinion of Cavanaugh &
Burke to the effect that where a railroad is constructed by
lawful authority and is operated in a proper and lawful
manner, without negligence, adjoining land owners have
no legal claim on the ground of injury or inconvenience
therefrom. In conformity with this opinion the Secretary
was directed to notify the attorney of J. W. and K. L.
MAcKernan that their communication, presented at the
November meeting (see page 30I) could not be considered
by the Regents.
A communication was received from   the SecretaryManager of the Michigan State Fair urging an exhibit by
the University at the State Fair of 1916. This communication was referred to the Executive Committee for a
report.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $500 was
added to the Buildings and Grounds pay roll to provide an
additional night watchman for the remainder of the present
University year, and the sum of $ioo was placed in the
Buildings and Grounds equipment account to purchase a
watchman's clock.
A communication from Professor C. H. Van Tyne asking an allowance of $250 for duplicate books for the Department of History was referred, with power, to the
Budget Committee, reference being with the understanding
that Professor Van Tvne's communication should go to the
Budget Committee through Dean Effinger, who was requested to attach his comments upon the request for the
guidance of the committee.
The University Forestry Club requested that Room 213
of the Natural Science Building should be made available
to the Forestry Club for its evening meetings from time
to time and should, in view of this use, be designated as
one of the "assigned smoking rooms" (see page 955, pro



JANUA.RY A$IEETING, I916


35r


ceedings of the March meeting, Ic94).        On motion of
Regent Clements, this request was granted for the present.
The request of Professor Roth, of the Forestry Department, for night janitor service was; on motion of Regent
Clements, likewise granted for the present, it being understood that the allowance for an additional watchman, recorded immediately above, would permit the furnishing of
regular night janitor service for this building.
A communication from Professor F. N. Scott, originally
presented at the December meeting, asking additional assistance in the Department of Rhetoric, was withdrawn on
request of Professor Scott.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board granted the
request of the Women's League of the University for an
allowance of $Too toward the expenses of the vocational
conference for women to be held in Ann Arbor, Tanuary
I3, I4, and 15.
The Executive Committee presented the following report, which, on motion of Regent Hubbard, was approved
and confirmed:To the Regents of the
University of Michigan.
GEiNTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee, at a meeting held December 6, I915, acted upon the request of Professor Tealdi,
No. 22 on the program of new business for the meeting held
December I, 1915, which was not reached at this meeting,
by granting the request that Mr. Frank B. Williams, of
New York City, be appointed non-resident lecturer in the
Department of Landscape Design for the current academic
year to deliver four lectures on the subject of "City Planning and the Law," at a salary of $250, this amount to be
paid from $0oo appropriated for non-resident lecturers in
the budget of the Department of Landscape Design and
$200 appropriated in said budget for an addition to the salary of Mr. Whittemore, which amount was not used for
that purpose for the reason stated in Professor Tealdi's
communication. As the granting of this request involved
no addition to the budget and as it was necessary, if we
were to secure the services of Mr. Williams, that immediate



