
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
The University of Michigan


July 1995 - June 1996




JULY MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July20, 1995
The Regents met at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Provost Whitaker, Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Harrison and Hartford
were also present. Vice Presidents Kinnear and Neal and Chancellors Nelms
and Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
Newman, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on July20, 1995, for the purposes of consulting with our
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation [Sec. 8(e)]; and considering material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of written opinions from
the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents then proceeded to meet in executive session.
The meeting reconvened in public session at 2:05 p.m. in the Regents'
Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Horning,
McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Provost
Whitaker, and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as were
Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors
Nelms and Renick. Regent Deitch arrived at 3:15 p.m.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Ms.
Roberta Palmer, newly-appointed secretary of the university, to her first
Regents' Meeting.
President's Report
The president noted that the role of affirmative action has been a major
topic of discussion in higher education circles of late, and that the University
of California Board of Regents was to decide that day whether or not to
retain its current affirmative action policies. He stated that the University
of Michigan has had a fundamental commitment to building a diverse
campus for a number of years, and that the increased numbers of women and




July Meeting, 1995


minority faculty, staff, and students have strengthened and enhanced the
institution. He noted that the commitment to diversity is part of the fundamental character of the University and reiterated his intention to maintain
that commitment.
Regent Varner thanked President Duderstadt for his comments, and
noted that the Board of Regents has strongly supported diversification and
affirmative action, with significant results. The progress that's been made
has not been accidental, she said, but the result of a conscious effort. She
expressed the hope that the University would continue to remain committed
to doing what is right.
Regent McGowan observed that the timing of the president's remarks
should be reassuring for the many people on campus who count on that
commitment's being a part of the University of Michigan.
Regent McFee commented that this is the only country in the world
with a diverse population that comes from all parts of the world, and that she
strongly believes that the University should reflect that as well. The
strength of the University, she believes, lies in its diversity, and maintaining
that diversity enhances its role in sustaining the unique diversity of American society.
Provost's Report
Department of Communication       Studies.   Provost Whitaker
reported that he had appointed a committee to study the future role of the
master's degree in journalism, and that this committee's work should be
completed within the next few weeks.
International Institute. Provost Whitaker noted that one goal of the
International Institute, founded about one and a half years ago in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, was to hire faculty who would serve as
bridges between the professional schools and LS&A. He reviewed the
backgrounds of four newly-appointed faculty members in the International
Institute to show how they would accomplish that goal.
Shady Trails Camp. Provost Whitaker updated the Regents about
two activities that were being carried out this summer to replace the services
lost by the closing of Shady Trails Camp.
Cost of compliance with regulations. In response to an earlier
request from Regent Newman, Provost Whitaker reported that the "best
guess" of the cost of compliance with federal, state, and other government
regulations is $178 million across all funds. This figure is growing at a rate
of about $600,000 per year.
Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack reported about the University's
continuing disagreement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) over its


2




July Meeting, 1995


requirement that FICA contributions must be withheld from the wages of
student workers. The University's position is that it should determine the
definition of what constitutes a student, not the Internal Revenue Service.
The University is engaged in ongoing discussions with the IRS on this issue,
which affects student workers' take-home pay.
Regent Power commented that this represents another attempt by the
federal government at cost-shifting of educational expenses to state governments, families, or students. He said that it would be helpful if a determination could be made of the costs of the federal government's aggregate
attempt to shift the cost of education from the government to other sources.
Proposed 1995-96 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets, Ann
Arbor Campus
Executive Vice President Womack provided an overview of the four
funds that comprise the University's Current Funds: the General Fund, the
Designated Fund, the Auxiliary Activities Fund, and the Expendable
Restricted Fund.
The proposed 1995-96 Current Funds revenue budget for all three
campuses is $2.577 billion, an increase of 8.5 percent over 1994-95; the total
expenditure budget is $2.446 billion, an increase of 8.7 percent. Executive
Vice President Womack's presentation included ten-year comparisons of total
budgeted revenues and of budgeted revenues by fund, as well as breakdowns
of budgeted revenues by fund and by source for 1995-96. The 1995-96
revenue budget is broken down as follows: $1.027 billion (40 percent) from
the Auxiliary Activities-Medical fund; $172 million (7 percent) from Auxiliary Activities-Other Fund; $839 million (33 percent) from the General
Fund; $453 million (17 percent) from the Expendable Restricted Fund; and
$86 million (3 percent) from the Designated Fund.
Proposed 1995-96 General Fund Budget
Provost Whitaker observed that a budget is a policy document matching
expenditure patterns with policy objectives. Within this context, the role of
the administration is to ensure that unit objectives are consistent with
University objectives, and it is the Board's role to make sure that the University's objectives are met as the budget planning process proceeds. The
central administration's budget objectives are "to continuously improve the
University's role as a world leader, providing excellence in learning, where
the faculty as well as the students are engaged in learning, the faculty is
engaged in new discovery, often with the assistance of students, and where
current knowledge is both transmitted and reinterpreted in the face of new
learning." The University should also be engaged in reinventing the learning
process itself.
Provost Whitaker reviewed the fundamental budget objectives, which
are to maintain and enhance the quality of instructional and research
programs; improve the quality of the undergraduate educational experience;
maintain and enhance access for Michigan undergraduates; improve racial


3




July Meeting, 1995


and gender diversity; increase the investment in infrastructure maintenance
and reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance; and provide reserves
against potential revenue shortfalls to avoid midyear base-budget reductions.
He described management initiatives designed to increase cost effectiveness,
including M-Quality, process improvement, ("re-engineering"), and Value
Centered Management. He also discussed the important role reallocation
has played in the General Fund budget strategy over the last 15 years. For
the past 5 years each unit has been required to reallocate at least 2 percent
of its budget toward its highest priority needs. He pointed out that this
process has resulted in the reduction of over 200 General Fund employees,
resulting in an annual compensation savings of over $11 million.
In response to Regent Newman's question as to whether any budgets
were being decreased, Provost Whitaker said that each unit was to receive an
increase; no budgets had been cut. Regent Power noted that the budget is
presented in terms of dollars, not "dollars per unit of activity". The result is
that economic activities are expressed in terms of raw cost, as opposed to
"cost per unit of volume." He pointed out that use of the latter method
would enable the Regents to more easily interpret the budget figures.
Regent Newman asked why the University wasn't attempting to cut
costs, as opposed to continually increasing costs.  Provost Whitaker
responded that about 70 percent of the budget is for personnel; the objective
of attracting the best possible people requires resources to keep salaries
competitive and to provide the laboratories and facilities needed. Regent
Newman said that she is aware that the University has been making efforts
to reduce costs, but that the message is not getting out about the specific
management decisions that are being made to manage the institution
effectively.
President Duderstadt pointed out that the volume of knowledge being
generated and disseminated at the University is increasing very rapidly,
while the price of obtaining this knowledge (tuition rate) is increasing at a
much slower rate. He believes that this is a point in history where the
burden of paying for education is shifting from the past generation, which
doesn't benefit directly, to the generation that receives the knowledge. Costs
can be cut either by eliminating academic programs or by reducing costs at
lower levels of management. The latter is being done by directing units to
reduce their base budgets by two percent every year, and Value Centered
Management should be even more effective at cost reduction. President
Duderstadt concluded that the challenge is to gather the data and articulate
it in a fashion that will show the results most effectively. Regent Power
reiterated that this will be necessary to be able to address persistent claims
about costs at the University.
Provost Whitaker pointed out that the rate of increase in the General
Fund budget is less than it has been in the past, and this is a result of the
cost avoidance measures that have been implemented. He believes that the
quality of the University has been improved while the rate of growth in
expenditures has been reduced.


4




July Meeting, 1995


Provost Whitaker displayed charts detailing the recommended FY
1995-96 General Fund expenditure budget of $755.1 million, including
breakdowns by unit and by category of expenditure. Each unit is slated to
receive a base operating budget increase of 2 percent, which is to be matched
by the unit through reallocation. He compared the University's increase
with those of other Michigan public and Big Ten public institutions. He
reported that if the University of Michigan had received the same funding
increase as had Michigan State University, it would have been enough to
have enabled the University to leave resident tuition rates unchanged for
1995-96. He displayed a chart comparing the cost increase for a Michigan
resident to attend the other universities ranked in the top 25 nationally,
illustrating that total tuition cost at the University of Michigan is less than
one-half that of the least expensive of the other institutions, even after
tuition increases have been added in.
The recommended increases in student fee rates for 1995-96 are 4.9
percent for lower division resident undergraduates, 5.8 percent for upper
division resident undergraduates, special increases for Business Administration M.B.A., Engineering, Kinesiology, Law, Medicine, Pharmacy, and Public
Policy, and 6.8 percent for all other students. In response to a question from
Regent Baker as to what the recommended tuition rate would have been if
the state appropriations had been spread equally across all public institutions, Provost Whitaker stated that if the University's appropriation increase
had been equal to the average of that received by all state institutions (47
percent), the tuition recommendation could have been lower.
Proposed 1995-96 General Fund Budget, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Renick reported that as part of its budget planning process,
the Dearborn campus surveys currently enrolled and former students to
assess their experience. A recent survey revealed that the three major
factors are quality, value, and convenience. He noted that the campus has
increased its enrollment by 2 percent over the previous year, and that it now
represents 25 percent of the total number of University of Michigan resident
undergraduate students for all three campuses.
The recommended average resident student tuition increase for the
Dearborn campus is 4.5 percent. Included in the 4.5 percent increase is a
$7.00 increase in the student activity fee. Nonresident tuition will not be
increased. Incremental funds will be targeted toward teaching and learning
activities, a salary program, student services, and implementation of a touchtone registration system.
Proposed 1995-96 General Fund Budget, Flint Campus
Chancellor Nelms emphasized that UM-Flint seeks to provide a quality
education at an affordable rate. The recommendation is for a 5.0 percent
General Fund increase, funded by a 3.0 percent increase in state appropriation and a 5.8 percent increase in resident undergraduate and graduate
tuition rates. Plans are to reduce the reliance on contingency funding


5




July Meeting, 1995


through the reallocation of $1.2 million. The salary program recommendation is for 2.5 percent; if enrollment increases sufficiently, there will be a
mid-term increase of 1.5 percent to bring the total to 4.0 percent. The 5.8
percent tuition increase will be the smallest on the Flint campus in over five
years, he reported, and total costs of attending UM-Flint remain among the
lowest in the state. Student financial aid will be increased by 6.0 percent.
Chancellor Nelms pointed out that for 1995-96 the campus is instituting a
new technology fee ($10 for part-time students and $20 for full-time). This
recommendation is based on the findings of a task force which recommended
a fee to support the enhancement of existing student laboratories and
instructional resources.
Regent McFee observed that the General Fund budget includes revenues
from a number of sources in addition to state appropriation and tuition. The
setting of tuition, therefore, is affected by such factors as indirect cost
reimbursement rates and voluntary support as well as the amount of state
appropriation.
Provost Whitaker announced that the recommended resident tuition
increase is the lowest in ten years.
In response to a question from Regent Power about when data will be
available comparing conventional budgeting methods with VCM budgeting,
Executive Vice President Womack said that although the data is already
available, his staff is still exploring alternative methods of presenting the
data in the least cumbersome fashion. By early fall, he expects to have a
model that would show what the effect would have been during the course of
the year if the VCM system had been in use.
There followed a five-minute break, after which the meeting reconvened
for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Anne Marie Ellison, student, on the Statement of Student
Rights and Responsibilities; Flint Wainess, president of Michigan Student
Assembly, on the cost of higher education; and Beatrice Green, citizen, on
the Nichols Arboretum hedge.
Following Public Comments, the Regents reconvened at 4:30 p.m. to
continue their earlier executive session.
Friday, July21, 1995
The Regents met at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Vice President
Whitaker, and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as were


6




July Meeting, 1995


Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors
Nelms and Renick.
President's Remarks
Freshmen Enrollment.      President Duderstadt reported that in
keeping with the University's efforts to ensure that the number of Michigan
residents in the Fall 1995 freshman class would be at least 3,000, 332
resident applicants had been admitted from the wait list in June. Over
two-thirds of those (233) have accepted the offer, so the University is confident that the fall enrollment goals will be met. Most of these students would
have attended other institutions in the state of Michigan, with the largest
fraction having planned to attend Michigan State University.
Regent Horning commented that despite media predictions that had
been made when the specific percentage of in-state/out-of-state enrollment
figures was eliminated from state legislation, the University has not
increased the proportion of nonresident students.
Affirmative Action. President Duderstadt reported that the Regents
of the University of California had acted to remove affirmative action
programs with regard to admissions, hiring, and contracting. He reiterated
that, as illustrated on the ABC evening news the previous night, the University of Michigan remains firmly committed to its own programs aimed at
increasing the campus' diversity.
Coach Gary Moeller Incident. President Duderstadt observed that
some aspects of the situation that led to Coach Moeller's resignation had
been handled quite well by the University, while other aspects, particularly
involving communications, had not been handled well. He then called on
Regent Baker, who stated that the Regents had reviewed this matter and
were issuing the following statement:
Statement of Regental Concern
Regarding Resignation of Coach Gary Moeller
The head football coach's, Gary Moeller's, resignation from the
University of Michigan has stirred considerable public interest.
The Regents have reviewed the circumstances surrounding this
event, and intend to accept the legal understandings as negotiated
between the University and Coach Moeller. They thank Coach
Moeller for his long service to the University and wish him well in
his new career. The Regents have also asked President Duderstadt
to review the structural, reporting, and operating relationships
between the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics and the
University as a whole and to report his conclusions next fall.
It was emphasized that the Regents expected to receive the report in
September or October of 1995.


7




July Meeting, 1995


1995-96 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets and 1995-96
Student Tuition and Fee Rates for Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint
Campuses
Regent Varner moved approval of the 1995-96 revenue and expenditure
operating budgets, the 1995-96 General Fund operating budgets, and the
1995-96 student fee rates for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion.
Regent Baker reiterated that had the University of Michigan received
the same base increase as Michigan State, Western Michigan, and Grand
Valley State universities, it might have been able to have kept its tuition
increase at 2.5 percent. President Duderstadt pointed out that the state
appropriation has not kept pace with inflation in recent years, and that it
continues to decline.
Regent McFee emphasized how important state appropriations are to
the institution; they are critical to the University's being able to provide the
high level of services it does. Regent Varner observed that loss of state
appropriation causes students to have to pay ever increasing proportions of
the costs, so that without the allocation of University resources, it would no
longer be accessible to low income students. She said her support for tuition
increases has always been based on her belief that the state's citizens want
to maintain the quality of the institution, so it is for this reason that she
continues, albeit reluctantly, to support increased tuition in the face of loss
of state support.
The vote was then taken on the motion to approve the 1995-96 operating budgets, general fund budgets, and student fee rates, and it was approved
unanimously.
Resolution in Honor of Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr.
President Duderstadt called on Regent Power, who read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute Gilbert R.
Whitaker, Jr., as he prepares to complete his tenure as provost and
executive vice president for academic affairs.
Gil Whitaker came to the University of Michigan in 1979 as
dean of the School of Business Administration and professor of
business economics.  Under his leadership the school enjoyed
remarkable growth in reputation; it became a center of far-reaching
scholarship and innovative, disciplined curriculum planning. A $15
million expansion of facilities, funded through private gifts, doubled
the school's space while its budget tripled and the number of faculty
nearly doubled. At the same time, it developed a more diverse


8




July Meeting, 1995


student body, growing from 5 percent to 28 percent minority
enrollment in the MBA day program.
When the University sought a provost in 1990, it seemed all
but inevitable that it would turn to Gil Whitaker. His success as
dean had been exemplary; he had chaired the Task Force to Study
the Costs of Education; and he had the visionary audacity to call for
a revenue diet that would be imposed without sacrificing excellence.
As provost, Gil Whitaker has continued his legacy of strong
fiscal and academic leadership.  Through wise shepherding of
resources, he has managed to sustain and even increase faculty
compensation levels. Under his direction, programs designed to
increase the number of underrepresented minority and women
faculty and to provide support for their scholarship have achieved
significant results.  He has also been a strong supporter for
increased attention to teaching and for improving the experiences of
undergraduates.
Throughout Gil's tenure as both dean and provost, his wife,
Ruth Whitaker, has been an equally effective leader, contributing
with unique style and grace to a wide array of University and
community organizations. Ruth and Gil have been an exceptionally
dedicated team whose efforts have had a lasting impact on the
entire community.
With deep appreciation for his dedication, commitment, and
leadership, and, appropriately enough, on the day of his last official
budget presentation, the Regents now name Gilbert R. Whitaker,
Jr., dean emeritus and provost and executive vice president
emeritus for academic affairs, effective September 1, 1995.
The motion was accepted by acclamation. There followed a round of
applause and a standing ovation. Regent Baker noted the "wonderful and
significant contributions" made by Gil and Ruth Whitaker during their long
association with the University.
Provost Whitaker thanked the Regents for the resolution and quoted
Lao-tzu in characterizing how he would like to be remembered:
"'But of a good leader who talks little
When his work is done, his aim fulfilled
They will all say, "We did this ourselves.'"
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the June 1995
meeting.


9




July Meeting, 1995


Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on
investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and
noncompetitive purchases from single sources for the period April 1 through
June 30, 1995. He reviewed problems that have recently been experienced
by the Common Fund, which stem from a loss it incurred as a result of
unauthorized trading in violation of written guidelines by one of its managers. This loss affected the University of Michigan by an estimated $1.5-2.0
million reduction in return for fiscal year 1994-95.
He described how the Common Fund is organized and noted that it has
performed a very useful service to higher education, particularly to smaller
endowments. Executive Vice President Womack responded to comments
from the Regents about how best to respond to the current situation and
about whether, given the size of the University's endowment, the Common
Fund is still an appropriate vehicle.
Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and
summaries of a selection of current research for the month of June 1995. He
also reported that the Matrigen Agreement discussed at the June Regents'
Meeting had been successfully concluded.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear commented that the
final report of fiscal-year gift receipts, including the totals for the month of
June, will be presented in the September meeting. He reported, however,
that voluntary support for 1994-95 was expected to reach a record level, and
that the Campaign for Michigan had reached about $846 million towards its
$1 billion goal.
Personnel Actions. Provost Whitaker and Chancellors Nelms and
Renick submitted a number of personnel actions.       Regent McGowan
commented on the strong support of the faculty for the appointment of
Nancy Cantor as dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies. She also expressed her own enthusiasm for that appointment as
well as for the quality of the newly-appointed tenured faculty members.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Agee, Jonis, Ph.D., Professor of English and Creative Writing
Cantor, Nancy E., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Vice Provost for Academic Affairs - Graduate Studies and
Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Crocker, Jennifer K., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
Kim, KyungMann, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biostatistics
Nolen-Hoeksema, Susan K., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology
Pincus, Leslie B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History
Seidman, Gay W., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School
of Public Health
Sharf, Robert H., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Buddhist Studies


10




July Meeting, 1995


Studlar, Gaylyn, Ph.D., Professor of English Language and Literature and Film and Video
Studies, August 1, 1995
Traub, Valerie J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of English
Willis, Robert J., Ph.D., Professor of Economics
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1995
Cordes, Eugene H., Ph.D., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, and
Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hedstrom, Margaret L., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies
Mead, David W., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Porter, Marianetta, M.A., Associate Professor of Art
Raghunathan, Trivellore E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biostatistics
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Cox, Mary E., Professor of Physics and Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Physics and Engineering Science, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair, Department of Physics
and Engineering Science, UM-Flint, three-year term
Gramlich, Edward M., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Dean, School of Public Policy, reappointed Dean, School of Public
Policy, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Lawrence, Janet H., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean,
School of Education, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Education, six-month term
Mancy, Khalil H., Professor of International Health, with tenure, and Professor of
Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health, reappointed Chair, Department of Environmental and Industrial
Health, three-year term
Wheeler, John R. C., Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Health Services Management and Policy, reappointed Chair,
Department of Health Services Management and Policy, three-year term
White, B. Joseph, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, and Dean, School of
Business Administration, reappointed Dean, School of Business Administration,
five-year term, July 1, 1996
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Czarnecki, Richard E., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
also appointed Acting Chair, Department of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn,
one-year term
Edwards, Harry K., Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Chair, Department of Computer Science, UM-Flint, May 15, 1995-June 30, 1998
Gluck, Peter R., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Political Science, UM-Flint, three-year term
Gull, Richard A., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint, three-year term
King, Larry, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Chair, Department of Mathematics, UM-Flint, three-year term


11




July Meeting, 1995


Kotowicz, William E., from Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School
of Dentistry, to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Acting Dean, School of
Dentistry, four-month term, September 1, 1995
Kugler, Lawrence D., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Interim Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, UM-Flint, one-year term
Lin, Shuen-Fu, from Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Director, Center for Chinese Studies, to Professor of Chinese Language and Literature,
with tenure, and Chair, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, three-year term
Toman, Jindrich, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, also appointed
Chair, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, three-year term
Waissi, Gary R., from Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn, to Associate Professor of Management Science, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Management, Marketing, Information Systems, and Decision Sciences,
UM-Dearborn, three-year term
Waters, Christine M., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Music, UM-Flint, three-year term
Webb, Paul W., Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, and Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Interim Dean, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, one-year term, September 1, 1995
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR. REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Borgers, Christoph, Associate Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary extended
Heinonen, Juha, Associates Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Betz, A. Lorris, from Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
Professor of Neurology, without tenure, Professor of Surgery, without tenure, the
Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, without tenure,
and Senior Associate Dean, Medical School, to Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of Neurology, without tenure,
Professor of Surgery, without tenure, the Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of
Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy, without tenure, and Executive Associate Dean,
Medical School, July 1, 1995
Herbert, Norman G., from Treasurer and Investment Officer to Associate Vice President and
Treasurer, August 1, 1995
Lafontaine, Francine, Associate Professor of Business Economics, without tenure, also
named the Sanford R. Robertson Associate Professor of Business Administration,
one-year term
Marletta, Michael A., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with tenure,
the John Gideon Searle Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, without
tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure,
Medical School, reappointed the John Gideon Searle Professor of Medicinal Chemistry
and Pharmacognosy, four-year term, September 1, 1998
Ohnuki-Tierney, Emiko, the Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, four-month term
Ramaswamy, Venkatram, Assistant Professor of Marketing, also named the NBD Bancorp
Assistant Professor in Business Administration, one-year term
Schipani, Cindy A., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, also named the Louis
and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor in Business and Law, one-year
Stecke, Kathryn E., Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, also named
the Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor in Business
Administration, two-year term


12




July Meeting, 1995


Interim appointment approval. The Regents authorized the president
or the provost and vice president for academic affairs to make such interim
appointments and/or changes as may become necessary from August 1-31, 1995,
to complete the staffing for the fall term 1995.
C. A. Patrides Professorship in English. The Regents approved
the establishment of the C. A. Patrides Professorship in English, effective
July 1, 1995.
John   Stephenson     Perrin   Professor.     The Regents approved the
establishment of the John Stephenson Perrin Professor, effective July 1, 1995.
The following committee appointments were submitted for approval:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Lindeman, Joyce I., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Christine M. Brooks, term expired
Papadopoulos, Stephen M., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Tom Hickey, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Becker, Judith 0., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice L. Ross Chambers, term expired
Reame, Nancy E., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Robert A. Weisbuch, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Gillespie, John A., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1996, vice Barry A. Bogin, on sabbatical leave
Hymes, Robert W., reappointed, September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998
James, David A., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998, vice Roger F. Verhey, term expired
Pearson, Sheryl S., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1996, vice Edward M. Sayles, retirement
furlough
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
D'Souza, Harry J., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Gary L. Pace, term expired
Miller, Douglas E., July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice Charles W. Bailey, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Afuah, Allan N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, September 1, 1995
Nanda, Vikram K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1995
Oxley, Joanne E., M.B.A., Lecturer in Business Administration
Sastry, M. Anjali, Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration
Shumway, Tyler G., B.A., Lecturer in Business Administration
Warther, Vincent A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1998
School of Dentistry
Pileggi, Roberta, D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, June 1, 1995
Ruona, Kimberly S., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Law School
Hammer, Peter J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Law, September 1, 1995


13




July Meeting, 1995


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ammerlaan, Marcus C., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Biology, June 1, 1995
Collins, Peter A., M.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics
Conekin, Becky E., B.A., Lecturer II in British History
Hughes, Philip A., D.Phil., Lecturer II in Astronomy
Medical School
Belcher, Kelvin K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Blumstein, Sylvie L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Charpie, John R., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Chen, Yun-Ching, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Culler, Cynthia D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, June 1, 1995
Engert, Susan F., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 3, 1995
Ernst, Robert D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Gros, Kimberly E., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Grunz, Donald J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Hamilton, Brian H., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Jasty, Rama, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Kim, Hyung T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Kopicki, Maria T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Korszun, Anna-Krystyna, M.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and
Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, May 15, 1995
Liu, J. Rebecca, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 10, 1995
McCort, Jane T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Mulligan, Michael S., M.D., Lecturer in Pathology and Lecturer in Surgery
Musci, Adrienne T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
June 19, 1995
Nypaver, Michele M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery
Ojo, Akinlolu O., M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Peschers, Ursula M., ARZT, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Pu, Anthony T., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology
School of Music
Calabria, Pier G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), September 1, 1995
Petty, Wayne C., M.Phil., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), September 1, 1995
Sheng, Bright, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Composition/Music Theory),
September 1, 1995
Velez-Aguayo, Evelyn, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Dance, September 1, 1995
Wilson, Robin M., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Dance, September 1, 1995
School of Nursing
Low, Lisa K., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, April 1, 1995
Mayes, Frances L., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, September 1, 1995
McCook, Judy G., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, May 1, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts Sciences, and Letters
Bretz, Stacey L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, September 1, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Cui, Shuqin, from Lecturer II in Chinese to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant,
June 12, 1995
Roth, Aaron, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, School of Music,
September 1, 1995


14




July Meeting, 1995


Medical School
An, Lawrence C., from Lecturer to House Officer IV in Internal Medicine
Brown, Randall W., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
Caldicott, Catherine V., from Clinical Instructor II to House Officer IV in Internal Medicine
Garver, Kimberly A., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Radiology
Jamadar, David A., from Lecturer to House Officer IV in Internal Medicine
Leber, Steven M., from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Assistant Professor of Neurology to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology
Macoska, Jill A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery
Patterson, Stephanie K., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Radiology
Warschausky, Seth A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Business Administration
Moore, Scott A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science,
September 1, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective July 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bartell, Lawrence S., the Philip J. Elving Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, one-month term
Medical School
Alpern, Mathew, Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics, Medical School, and Professor
Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, one-year term
Dickinson, David G., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one-year
term, September 1, 1995
Heyn, Ruth M., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one-year term
Ladu, Bert N., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, one-year term
McLean, James A., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term, January 1, 1995
O'Connor, Patricia A., Associate Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, one-year term, September 1, 1995
Oxender, Dale L., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, one-year term
Stern, Aaron M., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one-year
term, December 1, 1995
School of Business Administration
Edwards, Alfred L., Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, 10 month term,
September 1, 1995
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Bassett, John R., Professor Emeritus of Forestry, eight-month term, September 1, 1995
College of Pharmacy
Sinsheimer, Joseph E., Professor Emeritus of Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry,
College of Pharmacy, and Professor Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial Health,
School of Public Health, one-year term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anspach, Renee, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Antonucci, Toni C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Associate Professor of Human Development, without tenure, Medical
School, duty off campus, June 19-August 31, 1995


15




July Meeting, 1995


Colburn, C. William, Associate Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, leave
without salary, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996
Deardorff, Alan V., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Haslanger, Sally A., Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Hochster, Melvin, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and the Robert W. and Lynn H.
Browne Professor in Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Jennings, M. Kent, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Kingdon, John W., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Lott, John W., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Mullaney, Steven G., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Munro, Donald J., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Professor of Chinese, with
tenure, retirement furlough
Rauch, Jeffrey B., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Rosser, Jill A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, duty off campus
Saxonhouse, Arlene W., Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, with tenure,
and the James Orin Murfinm Professor of Political Science, sabbatical leave
Schelle, Hansjoerg, Professor of German, with tenure, retirement furlough
Sears, Elizabeth L., Assistant Professor of History of Art, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Shapiro, Matthew D., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1- December 31, 1995
Sklar, Lawrence, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and the James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Professor of Philosophy, sabbatical leave
Smoller, Joel A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Stacchetti, Ennio S., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Wald, Alan M., Professor of English and American Culture, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Yoffee, Norman, Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, and Curator of
Archaeology, sabbatical leave
College of Engineering
Anderson, David J., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, without tenure,
Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, sabbatical leave
Winful, Herbert G., Professor of Electrical and Computer Science, with tenure, and Arthur
F. Thurnau Professor, sabbatical leave
Medical School
Blane, Caroline E., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, leave without salary,
July 3-July 30, 1995
Blumstein, Sylvie L., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, leave without
salary, July 1-July 31, 1995
Kopicki, Maria T., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, leave without salary,
July 1-July 31, 1995
Naylor, Bernard, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
July 1, 1995- June 30, 1996
Payne, Anita H., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, retirement furlough, August 1, 1995-July 31, 1996
Sullivan, Donita B., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
retirement furlough, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996
School of Art
Cervenka, Sister Barbara, Lecturer in Art, leave without salary


16




July Meeting, 1995


School of Business Administration
Moller, William G. Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure,
retirement furlough
School of Dentistry
Berger, Eli V., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, retirement furlough,
July 15, 1995-July 14, 1996
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, leave without salary,
July 9-August 12, 1995
Taylor, Dorceta E., Assistant Professor of Environmental Sociology, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave without salary
School of Nursing
Lusk, Sally L., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Rogers, Ann E., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
School of Public Health
Penchansky, Roy, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
retirement furlough January 1-December 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Linn, William J., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
McDonald, James H., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, leave without salary
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Nica, Alexandru M., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary,
January 1-December 1, 1995 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1995)
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Burton, Stephan L., Lecturer II in Philosophy, term complete, August 31, 1994
Clark, Gracia C., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Afroamerican and African Studies,
term complete, May 31, 1995
Hertz, Dalia, Lecturer II in Philosophy, term complete, April 30, 1995
Markus, Hazel J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Helen Peak Professor of
Psychology, resigned, May 31, 1995
Nissen, Eugene W., Assistant Dean and Lecturer in Administration, retired, August 4, 1995
Ortner, Sherry B., Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, and the
Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor of Anthropology, resigned, May 31, 1995
Rosello, Mireille D., Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
resigned, August 31, 1995
Stebbins, William C., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retired
Turner, James C., Professor of History, with tenure, resigned May 31, 1995
Velez, Marvirdia, Lecturer II in Urban Planning, term complete, April 30, 1995
Vrettos, Athena, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, term complete,
May 31, 1995


17




July Meeting, 1995


Weirick, Allen P., Lecturer III in Germanic Languages and Literatures, term complete,
May 31, 1995
Medical School
Bass, James C., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Caduff, Jurg H., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Chimowitz, Marc I., Assistant Professor of Neurology, resigned
Connor, G. Patrick, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, resigned,
Cornett, Joseph B., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Donovan, Charles B., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Gabriel, Helena, Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Hammerberg, Craig, Lecturer in Dermatology, resigned
Hartshorn, Duane O., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, resigned
Hill, Timothy A., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, resigned, June 19, 1995
Hurd, William W., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure,
resigned, August 13, 1995
Kim, Thomas A., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Kohut, Karen G., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, resigned, July 30, 1995
Mata, Marina, Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, resigned
McCullough, Neil B., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Mittelman, Mark A., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Nairn, Roderick, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, resigned, June 20, 1995
Niebauer, Mark J., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Pfammatter, Thomas, Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Pranikoff, Thomas, Lecturer in Surgery, resigned
Tran, Duc D., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Van Erp, Jeffrey S., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
Weech, Mark A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned
Wilborn, Jerome, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, April 30, 1995
Yutzy, Gerlad G., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned
School of Art
Bowers, John N., Assistant Professor of Art, resigned
School of Business Administration
Bradley, Michael H., Professor of Finance, with tenure, and the Everett E. Berg Professor of
Business Administration, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Law,
without tenure, Law School, resigned
Danos, Paul P., Associate Dean, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, and Arthur Anderson
Professor of Accounting, resigned
Israel, Ronen, Associate Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, resigned,
May 31, 1995
Slezak, Steve L., Assistant Professor of Finance, resigned, May 31, 1995
Wrobleski, William J., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1995
Yi, Youjae, Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Linger, Jackson B., Lecturer in Dentistry, resigned
Rodriguez, Juan P., Lecturer in Dentistry, resigned
Wagner, Warren C., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, term complete
School of Education
Baggett, Patricia M., Associate Professor of Education, without tenure, term complete,
May 31, 1995
Crawford Barbara E., Lecturer in Education, term complete, July 31, 1995
Law School
Seligman, Joel, Professor of Law, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1995
School of Music
Lewis, Gary J., the Donald R. Shepherd Assistant Professor of Conducting and Assistant
Professor of Music (Band), resigned, July 31, 1995


18




July Meeting, 1995


School of Nursing
Petersen, Barbara A., Assistant Professor of Nursing, resigned
School of Public Health
Grinker, Joel A., Professor of Human Nutrition, with tenure, retired, July 1, 1995
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Schroeder, John B., Associate Professor of Political Science, retired
UM-Flint School of Management
Hallam, Stephen F., Dean and Professor of Management, with tenure, resigned
Retirement Memoirs. Eight retirement memoirs were submitted.
Malcolm S. Cohen, associate research scientist and former director of
the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, retired from active faculty
status on November 15, 1994, after 26 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Dr. Cohen received his B.A. degree summa cum laude from the University of Minnesota in 1963 and won a full academic scholarship to pursue
graduate studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he
earned his Ph.D. degree in 1967. He began his career at the University of
Michigan in 1968 as assistant to the vice president for state relations and
planning and in 1969 as assistant professor of economics. In 1969, he
chaired the Management Information System Team, a group charged with
responsibility for determining the University of Michigan's management
information needs. He joined the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations
in 1972 and became co-director of its research division in 1973. He served as
director of the institute from 1983-93. He also served as chair of the
Program for Human Resource Development, a certificate program under the
auspices of the University's Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.
Dr. Cohen is nationally known for his work in the area of labor market
information, particularly with regard to labor shortages. He developed a
methodology for identifying labor shortages by occupation, which the U.S.
Department of Labor has considered in its criteria for deciding whether to
grant labor certification to foreign applicants, and has written a book
describing this methodology and the research behind it (University of Michigan Press, 1995).
Dr. Cohen has testified as an expert witness, chaired boards of directors,
and lectured extensively. He has also conducted studies involving labor
market information for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Cost of
Living Council, and numerous state and federal government agencies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Malcolm S. Cohen associate research scientist emeritus.
Howard A. Crum, professor of botany in the Department of Biology
and curator of bryophytes and lichens in the Herbarium, will retire from
active faculty status on August 31, 1995.
Professor Crum received his B.S. degree magna cum laude from Western
Michigan College in 1947 and his M.S. (1949) and Ph.D. (1951) degrees from
the University of Michigan. He served as curator of cryptograms in the


19




July Meeting, 1995


National Museum of Canada from 1954-65, when he joined the faculty at the
University of Michigan as associate professor of botany and curator of
bryophytes. He was promoted to professor in 1969, served as chair of the
Department of Botany from 1981-83, and was editor of The Michigan
Botanist from 1977-84.
Professor Crum is widely considered one of this century's foremost
authorities on the taxonomy and phytogeography of mosses. With L. E.
Anderson, he published Mosses of Eastern North America, which received
the H. A. Gleason Award from the New York Botanical Garden in 1981.
Other major floristic works that he authored or co-authored have treated the
mosses of the Great Lakes forest, Puerto Rico, and Mexico, and the genus
Sphagnum in North America. A steady stream of over 230 papers in journals
continues unabated. Professor Crum also served bryology as editor or associate editor of The Bryologist from 1954-76 and as president of the American
Bryological and Lichenological Society from 1962-63. His doctoral students
occupy important bryological positions in three nations, and practically every
bryologist in the United States and Canada has taken his famous course at
the University of Michigan Biological Station. For his achievements as a
teacher at the Biological Station, he earned an Excellence in Education
Award from the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in 1993. Since
1973, Professor Crum has also served as an academic counselor for the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. His friendly curiosity, wry
humor, and warm and supportive manner earned him the Ruth M. Sinclair
Memorial Award for Freshman-Sophomore Counseling in 1978.
The University of Michigan Herbarium has long had one of the
hemisphere's largest and most important collections of bryophytes and
lichens. Under Professor Crum's curation, those collections have been
reorganized, greatly enlarged, and extensively studied.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar by
naming Howard A. Crum professor emeritus of botany and curator emeritus
of bryophytes and lichens.
Cedric V. Fricke, professor of business administration at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1995,
following 35 years of service.
Professor Fricke received his B.S.E. degree in chemical engineering in
1949, his M.B.A. degree in accounting in 1950, and his Ph.D. degree in
business administration in 1959, all from the University of Michigan. He
joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn as an assistant
professor of finance in 1960 after several years of teaching at Wayne State
University. He was promoted to associate professor of business administration in 1963 and professor in 1967.
During his tenure at Dearborn, Professor Fricke helped develop the
finance, business economics, and general management curricula and enjoyed
a very successful career as a teacher and advisor. Because of his professional
experience in industry, he was able to integrate theory and practice in the
classes that he taught, thereby enriching his students' classroom experiences
and making their courses more meaningful.


20




July Meeting, 1995


While on the faculty, Professor Fricke contributed actively to business
and industry by serving as a board member of a number of Detroit area
businesses. He was also a member of several professional and academic
associations.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and senior member of the
Dearborn campus by naming Cedric V. Fricke professor emeritus of business
administration.
Joel A. Grinker, professor of human nutrition in the School of Public
Health, professor of nutrition in the Medical School, and research scientist in
the Center for Human Growth and Development, will retire from active
faculty status on July 1, 1995.
Professor Grinker received her B.A. degree in psychology from Wellesley
College in 1961 and her Ph.D. degree in experimental social psychology from
New York University in 1967. From 1967-69, she served as a Russell Sage
Postdoctoral Fellow at Rockefeller University. After serving on the faculty
at Rockefeller University from 1971-82, Professor Grinker joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1982 as professor of human nutrition and served
as director of the Program in Human Nutrition from 1982-88. In 1983, she
received the additional appointment as professor of nutrition in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School; in 1984, was
named research scientist in the Center for Human Growth and Development.
Professor Grinker taught courses in the areas of nutrition and aging and
in maternal and child nutrition. During her tenure as director of the
Program in Human Nutrition, she directed teaching responsibilities in
human nutrition.
Professor Grinker's principal research focus was in the area of childhood
obesity. She received funding from the National Institutes of Health for her
research in this area and was a frequent speaker on the subject at nutrition
conferences in many parts of the world.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joel A. Grinker
professor emerita of human nutrition, professor emerita of nutrition, and
research scientist emerita.
Jane M. Lucas, associate librarian, will retire from the Business
Administration Library on July 31, 1995.
Ms. Lucas earned her B.B.A. degree in 1947 from Michigan State
University and her A.M.L.S. degree in 1971 from the University of Michigan.
She was inducted into Sigma Epsilon, an honorary society for business
administration graduates, and into Beta Phi Mu, the national honorary
society for library science graduates. Prior to joining the University of
Michigan School of Business Administration Library in 1971, she was
employed at Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company and the Detroit
News.
At the Business Administration Library, Ms. Lucas began in reserves,
and then moved into reference work. With her business background, she
contributed effectively to the publication selection process and handled a
number of key subject areas, including accounting, finance, statistics, and


21




July Meeting, 1995


most recently, international business. Her selection responsibilities have
grown over the years, and she is currently the library's collection
coordinator. In this role, she works not only with faculty and departments,
but with technical services staff to ensure that selected materials are
acquired and retained appropriately.
Among Ms. Lucas' unique achievements are those which have improved
the library in an often "unsung" way. She developed a career information
center, setting up the career information structure currently in place in the
library and managing and maintaining the most current information
available. Another of her contributions is in the area of working papers.
Due to her efforts, the library has a collection of about 5,000 working papers
from approximately 80 institutions to assist patrons in their research work.
Ms. Lucas has also written a number of guides and bibliographies to assist
patrons in their searches and has co-authored a paper entitled "Compromises
in the Management of Working Papers," which appeared in the October 1992
issue of the refereed journal Library Resources and Technical Services. She
has made significant and long-lasting contributions to the Business
Administration Library.
The Regents now salute this librarian by naming Jane M. Lucas associate librarian emerita.
George I. Mavrodes, professor of philosophy, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1995, after a distinguished career as one of the
world's foremost philosophers of religion.
Professor Mavrodes received his B.S. degree (1945) from Oregon State
College, his B.D. degree (1953) from Western Baptist Theological Seminary,
and his M.A. (1960) and Ph.D. (1961) degrees in philosophy from the University of Michigan. He taught at Princeton University from 1960-61, after
which he returned to the University of Michigan as assistant professor of
philosophy. He was promoted to associate professor in 1967 and professor in
1973. He made important contributions to the Program on Studies in Religion, as well as to the Department of Philosophy.
Professor Mavrodes has been in the vanguard of an influential
movement that has used the tools of contemporary analytic philosophy to
elucidate the foundations of religion, and of Christianity in particular. He is
the author of Belief in God: A Study in the Epistemology of Religion (1970)
and Revelation in Religious Belief (1988) and has edited two anthologies:
Problems and Perspectives in the Philosophy of Religion (1967) and The
Rationality of Belief in God (1970). His nearly one hundred other publications cover such topics as revelation, divine omnipotence, resurrection,
miracles, personal identity and survival of death, and faith and reason, as
well as ethics and social policy issues that intersect with religion and morality-abortion, pacifism, the just war, and nuclear deterrence.
A leader in his field, Professor Mavrodes has served as president of both
the Society for Philosophy of Religion and the Society of Christian Philosophers and as a member of the executive committee of the American Theological Society.  He has served in editorial capacities for The American
Philosophical Quarterly, Faith and Philosophy, and The Reformed Journal.


22




July Meeting, 1995


He has been a fellow of the Calvin Center for Christian Scholarship at Calvin
College and of the Center for Philosophy of Religion at the University of
Notre Dame and has held visiting positions at Carleton and Kenyon colleges.
Over the years, faculty colleagues came to rely on Professor Mavrodes'
shrewd and incisive philosophical criticism, while students took advantage of
his wide learning and scholarship in philosophy, religion, and theology, and
staff appreciated his consideration and personal kindness.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his 33
years of service by naming George I. Mavrodes professor emeritus of
philosophy.
William C. Stebbins, professor of otorhinolaryngology in the Medical
School and professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1995.
Professor Stebbins received his A.B. degree from Yale University in 1951
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1954 and 1957,
respectively. He served as an assistant professor at Hamilton College from
1957-61 and was a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Washington from
1961-63. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1963 with appointments in the departments of psychology and otorhinolaryngology and in the
Kresge Hearing Research Institute.
Professor Stebbins is the author of more than 60 journal articles and 30
book chapters and has edited or written 7 books. Although these contributions cover a wide range of topics, most deal with his primary interest, which
is the measurement of sensory function, particularly hearing, in animals.
Perhaps nowhere is this interest better illustrated than in his book, The
Acoustic Sense ofAnimals, a scholarly yet readable treatise on animals' sense
of hearing that deals not only with how animals hear, but why they listen.
Within the University, Professor Stebbins has chaired the Budget Priorities Committee and has served as acting director of the Kresge Hearing
Research Institute, chair of the psychobiology area and of the graduate
program in the Department of Psychology, chair of the Faculty Senate,
LS&A ombudsman, and associate dean for faculty programs in the graduate
school. At the national level, Professor Stebbins has served as president of
the Association for Research in Otolaryngology, as a study section member of
NINCDS, and has been active in the American Academy of Ophthalmology
and Otorhinolaryngology.  He has also served on the external advisory
committees for a number of institutions across the U.S., has served on the
editorial boards of numerous journals, and has been a reviewer for several
funding agencies. His honors include his appointment as a fellow of the
Association for the Advancement of Science, a fellow of the Acoustical
Society of America, and a fellow of the American Psychological Society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
William C. Stebbins professor emeritus of otorhinolaryngology and professor
emeritus of psychology.
William J. Wrobleski, proei fessor of statistics in the School of Business
Administration, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1995.


23




July Meeting, 1995


Professor Wrobleski received his B.S. degree in 1953, his M.S. degree in
1954, and his Ph.D. degree in 1963, all from the University of Michigan. He
joined the faculty of the School of Business Administration as an assistant
professor in 1963 and was promoted to associate professor in 1966 and
professor in 1974. From 1981-84, he served as chair of the school's statistics
and management area.
During his tenure at the School of Business Administration, Professor
Wrobleski was recognized for his work in nonlinear time series analysis and
its application to important issues in economics and business administration.
He conducted some of the early international analysis of U.S. monetary
policy effects on major foreign money and capital markets. He has an
impressive publication record and has served as a referee on some of the
major professional journals. Professor Wrobleski has been a good citizen of
the school and a strong teacher. He has served on sixty-four dissertation
committees and is completing service on three more; this is an extraordinary
contribution to graduate education. He has made significant contributions
to the school and to his profession, and the faculty and staff wish him a long
and satisfying retirement.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William J.
Wrobleski professor emeritus of statistics.
Memorial Statements. No deaths were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of $15.0 million of the Long
Term Portfolio to Avanti Strategic Land Investors II, pending favorable
review of the documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel
and completion of due diligence.
Currency Overlay
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Pareto Partners as
currency overlay manager.
Multinational/Emerging Markets Energy Fund
In May 1995, the Board approved investment of $20.0 million in
Multinational/Emerging Markets Energy Fund composed of two companion
funds: Acquisition Fund and Exploration Fund. Executive Vice President
Womack informed the Regents thathe decision has been made not to
proceed with the investment in the Acquisition Fund and only to invest in
the Exploration Fund.


24




July Meeting, 1995


Summit Ventures, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that based on
actions taken in May 1994, and in accordance with the provisions of Regents
Bylaw Section 3.07(.2a), the University has committed $5 million to Summit
Ventures IV, L.P.
Alumni Association of the University of Michigan Camp Michigania,
Walloon Renovation
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the
Alumni Association's Business and Financial Affairs Committee had
approved Phase III of a project for construction, renovation, and site development at Camp Michigania-Walloon and had authorized external financing for
both the Phase III project and the reimbursement of $540,000 to the Alumni
Association's General Fund for the Phase I and II projects.
UMMC East Campus Primary Care Facility Project
The Regents were informed that bids have been received and a construction contract has been awarded to the lowest responsive bidder, Loyer
Construction Co. of Detroit, for the first of five packages for construction of
the East Campus Primary Care Facility Project.
University Health Service, Michigan Union, Michigan League, and
North Campus Commons
Mr. Doug Hanna, university architect, presented the proposed design of
the five-story addition to the University Health Service building, a project
that had been previously approved by the Regents, along with projects
involving the Michigan Union, Michigan League, and North Campus
Commons. He displayed schematic drawings, an elevation of the front of the
building, and an architectural model of the building with the proposed
addition.
Following Mr. Hanna's presentation, Regent Deitch moved approval of
the design of the University Health Service addition, and authorization for
soliciting bids and awarding construction contracts for the four projects and
two associated projects as described in the Regents Communication, providing the contract values are within the approved budget. Regent Power
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Phase II
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved a revised budget for the UM-Dearborn
General Campus Renovation Project Phase II and authorized award of the
construction contract to Walbridge Aldinger Company.


25




July Meeting, 1995


Energy Conservation Projects
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Varner, the
Regents unanimously approved proceeding with energy conservation projects
at the Kresge Medical Research Building I and the UM-Dearborn Mardigian
Library and University Mall, as described in the Regents Communication.
Lease Assumption Agreement with Dr. Robert E. Anderson and Mr.
Saul Rose
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease assumption agreement with Dr. Robert E.
Anderson and Mr. Saul Rose for a medical office building located at 4990
Clark Road, Ypsilanti, Michigan. Because Dr. Anderson is also a University
employee by virtue of his appointment as a clinical instructor II in the
Medical School, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan, Dr. Robert E.
Anderson, and Mr. Saul Rose.
2.   Terms of the contract are as follows: The duration of the contract is 34
months. The University will lease property located at 4990 Clark Road,
Ypsilanti, Michigan. The medical office facility is 1,666 square feet, at a
rental rate of $15.65 per square foot, $26,067.12 annually, beginning on
March 13, 1995, plus the Tenant's pro rata share of the Landlord's operating expenses for each calendar year during the term of the lease. The
medical center will place clericals, medical office assistants, nurses, and
physicians to provide necessary primary care services to the community.
3.   Dr. Anderson's pecuniary interest arises from his commitment to the original lease agreement with Mr. Rose. Dr. Anderson will be relieved of his
liability for the original lease, and Mr. Rose will receive revenues generated
by the leasing of the property to the University.
Lease Agreement with Barron Associates
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with Barron Associates. Because
Dr. Parviz Panahi, a University employee with a 100 percent appointment in
the School of Medicine, has a 12.07 percent equity interest in Barron Associates, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Barron
Associates.
2.   Terms of the contract are as follows: The duration of the contract is 60
months. The University will lease property located at 4870 Clark Road,
Ypsilanti, Michigan. The medical office facility is 2,445 square feet, at a
rental rate of $16.00 per square foot, $39,120.00 annually, beginning on July
1, 1995, plus the Tenant's pro rata share of the Landlord's operating
expenses for each calendar year during the term of the lease. The medical
center will place clericals, medical office assistants, nurses, and physicians to
provide necessary primary care services to the community.


26




July Meeting, 1995


3.  Dr. Panahi's pecuniary interest arises from his 12.07 percent interest in
Barron Associates, the owners of the building. Through Barron Associates,
he will receive a percentage of revenues generated by the leasing of the
property to the University.
Change in Name of Department of Nuclear Engineering
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of
Nuclear Engineering to the Department of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences.
New Degree Program for College of Engineering
Regent McFee moved approval of the establishment of a new degree
program, "Doctor of Engineering in Manufacturing" ("D.Eng. in Mfg.") to be
offered by the College of Engineering. Regent Newman seconded the motion,
and it was approved unanimously.
New Degree Program for UM-Dearborn School of Education
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Varner, the
Regents unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Arts in
Adult Instruction and Performance Technology," to be offered by the School
of Education at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
733 South State Street, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved acquisition of the property at 733 South State Street
(the former Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house) at a price of $630,000,
subject to satisfactory completion of the University's environmental due
diligence.
New Degree Program for UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of a new degree program at the University of Michigan-Flint, "Master of Science in Health Education," to be offered
in the School of Health Professions and Studies.
Value Centered Management
Regent Power commented that during the 1995-96 fiscal year the
University would begin implementing its new Value Centered Management
(VCM) budgeting system, using it in tandem with the current system for this
first year. He observed that VCM represents a significant change from the
traditional method of budget management, and said he was looking forward
to examining its potential impact at the earliest convenient opportunity in
the fall.


27




July Meeting, 1995


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:00
a.m. The next meeting will be held on September 21 and 22, 1995. Regents'
expenses for the month of June 1995 totaled $2,811.35.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


28




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 21, 1995
The Regents met at 9:20 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Interim Provost Machen,
Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice President Harrison were also
present. Vice Presidents Hartford, Kinnear and Neal and Chancellors Nelms
and Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
Baker, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(a) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act,
as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session at 9:00 a.m. on September 21, 1995, and reconvene
at 7:30 a.m. on September 22, 1995, for the purposes of considering
periodic personnel evaluations of people who have requested
confidentiality [Sec. 8(a)] and considering material exempt from
discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion
from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The Regents then proceeded to meet in executive session.
The meeting reconvened in public session at 2:05 p.m. in the Regents'
Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch,
Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer,
Interim Provost Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal, and Chancellor Nelms were also
present. Chancellor Renick was absent.
President's Report
The president observed that higher education has been under pressure
to increase productivity and noted that while staff productivity is relatively
easy to measure, faculty productivity is more difficult to assess. That is
because faculty productivity, as evidenced by a factor such as a high reputational ranking, is not determined through quantitative measures, but
through competition for the respect and high evaluation of knowledgeable
colleagues. Intercollegiate athletics is another example of a case where
reputation is not measured in quantitative measures, but by a team competing for a specific competitive goal. These examples indicate that measuring


29




September Meeting, 1995


productivity in an academic institution is very complex; although there are
some measurable products, the level of an institution's quality is evaluated
by such factors as respect by peers, diversity, intellectual breath, and leadership impact, all of which are very difficult to quantify. A means has yet to be
devised for measuring the productivity of knowledge-intensive enterprises.
Provost's Report
Interim Provost Machen observed that his first month on the job had
been exciting and enjoyable. He reported that freshman orientation week
had been very successful, and that he had received many positive comments
from parents. He reviewed the activities planned by SACUA for the coming
year and noted that the president would be appointing three faculty task
forces to address the future composition of the faculty, the faculty contract,
and the recruitment and retention of exceptional faculty and students.
Provost Machen observed that in a recent study of U.S. colleges and
universities, 38 University of Michigan academic programs had been ranked:
four were ranked in the top three of their discipline, eight in the top five, and
thirteen were in the top ten of their respective disciplines. He reaffirmed the
University's commitment to institute value centered management in 1996.
Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack reported that earlier that week he
had accepted the 1995 Corporation of the Year Award-Educational Sector,
which had been given to the University of Michigan by the Michigan Minority Business Development Council for its continued commitment to minority
business development. He recognized three individuals who had been
responsible for the University's winning this award: Dick Throne, Minority
Vendor Program Coordinator, who had started the program with former
purchasing director Eugene Ingram in 1983; Dennis Pozywak, senior
purchasing agent on the Flint campus, and Philip Abruzzi, director of
purchasing. The three men stood and received a round of applause.
Regent Varner observed that the winning of this award marked a major
milestone for the University, and that she had been encouraging the University to adopt an attitude of welcoming minority businesses since she was a
faculty member in the early 1970s. It was personally very rewarding to her
that the University had received this award.
Executive Vice President Womack then commented on the University's
new "Flex Benefits" program, which will be inaugurated in October. He
noted that many individuals in the Human Resources office had worked hard
to make sure that the University community would have an understanding
of this program.
Regents McFee and Power commented on the importance of flexible
benefits programs, given the changing and diversified nature of the work
force.


30




September Meeting, 1995


Michigan Student Assembly Biannual Report
Vice President Hartford called on Mr. Flint Wainess and Mr. Sam
Goodstein, president and vice president, respectively, of Michigan Student
Assembly, to present the first MSA biannual report to the Regents.
Mr. Goodstein noted that the presence of MSA officers at the Regents'
table is evidence of the improving relationship between MSA and the administration and thanked the Regents and past MSA administrations for their
hard work in arriving at this point. He observed that although MSA has long
been labeled as ineffective and out of touch, it is now a credible, responsible,
effective student government that is capable, willing, and able to address the
needs of its constituencies. Student government officials are expected to
follow up on their campaign promises and are held accountable for doing so.
They also are looked to by other students to provide leadership on issues of
concern to students and to voice student concerns to the administration.
Mr. Wainess noted that work on the new draft of the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities has been a source of friction between
students and the administration, although he was optimistic that all parties
will eventually be able to agree on a reasonable outcome. He expressed the
concern that the October deadline will be difficult to meet because it will not
allow sufficient time to receive feedback from students. He requested that
the deadline be extended to November, by which time he believes a reasonable consensus could be reached among all the parties.
Finally, Mr. Wainess expressed concerns brought to him by the Campus
Safety Task Force. He asked that the Regents be mindful of safety concerns
brought about by construction on campus.
Mr. Goodstein closed with the observation that now that the Michigan
student government had achieved its goal of formally representing student
concerns to the Board, it was the envy of other Big Ten student government
organizations.
Regent Power asked Vice President Hartford if she felt there was any
merit to the notion of extending the deadline for adoption of a Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities to November. She responded that it
could be done in October, but it would be easier to do in November. Regent
Power observed that if the outcome would be better, he was in favor of
extending the deadline. Regent Newman stated that she would prefer to
wait until November, both for that reason and to be responsive to student
concerns that it not be taken up in October since that meeting would be
taking place in Flint.
University Program Rankings
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Harrison, who in turned
called to the table Robert Weisbuch, interim dean of the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, and Marilyn Knepp, director of the Office of
Academic Planning and Analysis. Vice President Harrison reviewed the


31




September Meeting, 1995


history of the U.S. News and World Report rankings. He pointed out that
there is a distinction between guides and rankings. Guides provide descriptions of colleges and universities, with the intent of showing prospective
students the differences between them. Rankings only began proliferating in
the 1980s, and their purpose is more to assign quality rankings that infer
one institution is better than another. He called on Ms. Knepp, who gave a
presentation describing the types of methodologies used to produce the
various rankings of colleges and universities, the underlying assumptions
that accompany rankings employing each methodology, and the pros and
cons of each type.
Ms. Knepp observed that not all universities measure and report the
same way to the organizations compiling the rankings; thus, the results must
be viewed and interpreted with caveats in mind. Rankings imply a precision
that doesn't exist, for instance, that there is a material difference between
institutions that vary from each other by only a few points in any particular
ranking. She suggests viewing the rankings as indicating broad bands of
institutions; within any one band, institutions are probably very similar in
quality. When many rankings, all prepared using different methodologies,
are viewed collectively in a "meta-analysis", the result confirms this view.
In conclusion, Ms. Knepp noted that all rankings of quality are subjective. It is better to look at groupings of institutions, rather than absolute
rank orders, and to look at groupings of studies employing different methodologies, rather than one study in isolation.
President Duderstadt observed that the only category in the UVS. News
and World Report rankings that should be of concern is academic reputation,
an area in which the University of Michigan consistently ranks highly.
Next, Interim Dean Robert Weisbuch gave a report on the National
Research Council (NRC) Survey of graduate programs. He noted that the
University of Michigan had 14 programs in the top ten, but said that ranking
matters less than ratings of faculty quality. In the latter area, 19 of the 25
programs rated in 1982 improved in 1993. Dean Weisbuch reviewed various
aspects of the NRC study's rankings of the University's programs, noting
that some of the University's strongest programs were not considered. He
concluded that "we know ourselves much better than strangers can and are
constantly evaluating ourselves."
Dean Weisbuch reported that he and prospective Dean Nancy Cantor
had selected four themes for the graduate school: 1) "Sponsoring the future"
(learning where the new paradigms and new ideas are so that these can be
translated into courses and programs); 2) "Better the good" (continuing to
make tough decisions, to award differentially, and to award most the
programs with the strongest ambitions and the best ideas); 3) "Population
control" (with fewer students and the same amount of resources, better
support and better education can be provided to students); 4) "Pedagogy is
us" (the promotion of graduate student teaching skills as integral to the
professional development of all graduate students).


32




September Meeting, 1995


There followed a discussion about how influential the U.S. News and
World Report and National Research Council rankings are in helping
students determine which university to attend. Vice President Harrison
asserted that the rankings are influential, especially with respect to undergraduate and professional schools. Regent Deitch asserted that if these
rankings are important and widely read, it is incumbent upon the University
to respond in some fashion. President Duderstadt pointed out that the
disparity between the results of the U.S. News and NRC rankings clearly
shows the bias of the former toward private institutions. Dean Weisbuch
reported that the graduate school is composing a two-page handout that
discusses some of the issues surrounding rankings that will be made available to departments to send to applicants.
"Welcome to Michigan '95" Activities
Vice President Hartford gave a report on move-in and welcoming activities that had taken place for incoming students at the start of the school
year. She stated that her office had received many positive comments from
parents about the success of both the move-in itself and all of the events that
had been scheduled as part of the "Welcome to Michigan" week. She also
commented on the extremely tight housing situation, noting that over 1,000
residents were living in rooms that had been converted from doubles to
triples ("converted triples"). She reported that members of her and Executive Vice President Womack's staffs had begun preliminary discussions to
consider whether the construction of new residence halls would be desirable.
Regent Power said that creativity needs to be employed when thinking
about possible new residence hall construction. He reinforced the notion
that removing students from converted triples should be the highest priority.
Vice President Hartford responded that her highest priority is to place
students in housing that is sized appropriately for the academic demands
that are placed on them and noted that there are a lot of creative ideas on
this issue.
The meeting recessed at 3:55 p.m. and reconvened at 4:15 p.m. in the
Anderson Room of the Michigan Union to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Craig Stutzky, student and chair of Students for Representative Diversity, on expanding the definition of diversity to include economic
diversity; and Michael Schroer, citizen, Jane Ferguson, David Kwan, and
Paul Rogers, prospective president, treasurer, and member, respectively, of
the Oxbridge Neighborhood Association, Barbara Bach, citizen, and Barbara
Levin Bergman, member of the Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners,
all on the topic of possible relocation of the Burnham House to the Geddes
Avenue entrance to the Arboretum.
The meeting recessed until the following day.


33




September Meeting, 1995


Friday, September 22, 1995
The Regents met at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Interim Provost
Machen, and Executive Vice President Womack were also present, as were
Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellor
Nelms. Provost Simpson was present in place of Chancellor Renick, who
arrived shortly after the start of the meeting.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1994-95 and Year-End
Financial Information for 1994-95
Executive Vice President Womack reported that Ernst & Young, the
independent auditors, had issued a clean opinion in its audit of the University's financial statement. He noted that the auditors would be present at
the next month's meeting to present their opinion in detail and to answer
any questions the Regents might have.
Executive Vice President Womack called on Associate Vice President
Randy Harris, who gave a slide presentation on the year end financial information for 1994-95 compared with 1985-86. Mr. Harris explained that the
Current Funds consist of the Educational and General funds (E&G)
(General, Designated, and Expendable Restricted Funds), and the Auxiliary
Activities funds. In 1985-86, state appropriations accounted for 34 percent
of the Current Funds revenues; in 1994-95, these constituted 24 percent of
the total. Student fees increased from 26 percent to 32 percent of the
Current Funds during the same ten-year period, and government programs
increased by 4 percent.
The compound growth rate adjusted for inflation (real growth rate) for
student fees for the ten year period was 6.7 percent, while for state appropriations, it was 0.2 percent. In 1975, student fees made up 32.0 percent of
the combined revenues from student fees and state appropriations; in 1995,
student fees made up 57.0 percent of the total, a 25.0 percent increase.
Revenues from government programs and gifts and sponsored programs
experienced 6.0 percent compound growth rates since 1985-86, while
revenues from all other sources grew by 2.2 percent. Total Educational and
General revenues grew by 4.2 percent during this period, from $647 million
to $938 million.
Total Auxiliary Activities revenues ($1.051 billion in 1994-95) had an
adjusted compound growth rate of 5.6 percent since 1985-86, with the hospital, medical, and dental component of that having grown by an adjusted rate
of 6.0 percent to a total of $919 million.
Expenditures and transfers for the Educational and General portion of
the Current Funds totaled $634 million in 1985-86 and $1.270 billion in 1994 -95, for an adjusted compound growth rate of 4.2 percent. Salaries and wages
decreased from 51.0 percent of this category in 1985-86 to 46.0 percent in


34




September Meeting, 1995


1994-95, while staff benefits increased from 11.0 percent to 13.0 percent and
scholarships and fellowships increased from 7.0 percent to 9.0 percent. Total
compensation (salaries and wages plus staff benefits) experienced a 10-year
adjusted compound growth rate of 3.7 percent, increasing from $390 million
to $748 million, and scholarships and fellowships grew by 7.4 percent (from
$46 million to $120 million). Supplies expenditures grew by 4.2 percent,
from $143 million to $286 million, and equipment and plant expenditures
grew by 4.9 percent, from $54 million to $116 million. Total Auxiliary Activities expenditures grew from $407 million to $1.131 billion, for an adjusted
compound growth rate of 8.1 percent. The hospital, medical, and dental
portion of those expenditures grew from $339 million to $1.003 billion, for an
adjusted growth rate of 8.8 percent for the ten-year period.
In 1985-86, Current Funds revenues totaled $991 million, with Auxiliary
Activities comprising 42 percent; General Funds, 38 percent; Expendable
Restricted, 17 percent; and Designated, 3 percent. In 1994-95, total revenues
were $2,347 million, consisting of 45 percent Auxiliary Activities, 34 percent
General Fund, 18 percent Expendable Restricted Fund, and 3 percent Designated Fund.
Total expenditures and transfers were $1,041 million in 1985, with
salaries and wages accounting for 51 percent; supplies, 22 percent; staff
benefits, 11 percent; equipment and plant 9 percent; and scholarships and
fellowships 7 percent. In 1994-95, expenditures and transfers totaled $2,401
million, with salaries and wages decreasing to 46 percent of the total, staff
benefits increasing to 13 percent, scholarships and fellowship increasing to 9
percent, and the other two areas remaining relatively constant.
Following his presentation on the budgets, Associate Vice President
Harris updated the Regents about the status of the new M-Card. He distributed cards to each Regent and the executive officers.
Executive Vice President Womack explained that in the system of fund
accounting, any transfer is treated as an expenditure. In the case of the
Auxiliary Activities fund, the Hospitals deliberately transfer excess revenue
to funds functioning as endowment. That transfer results in an increase in
expenditures, when in fact, this has not really occurred. It will always
appear that expenditures and transfers have exceeded revenues when fund
balances are invested in a different way or if funds have been accumulated
for the purchase of expensive equipment or capital items.
Regent Power observed that during his tenure on the Board, the financial reports have consistently contained clean opinions, have come out on
time, and have been comprehensible and well-organized. Regent Power
moved adoption of the financial statements for fiscal year 1994-95 and
December 31, 1994, as submitted. Regent Horning seconded the motion, and
it was approved unanimously.


35




September Meeting, 1995


President's Salary
Regent Baker made the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
Consistent with past practice, the Regents grant to President
James J Duderstadt for fiscal year 1995-96 a 5 percent ($11,621)
increase to his current annual salary of $232,421.
In 1993, the Regents adopted a presidential compensation
policy and inaugurated a        three-year phased equity adjustment
program to bring the salary of the president of the University of
Michigan    into  conformity    with   this policy.    This portion     of
presidential compensation is funded from        the Auxiliay Activities
Fund rather than from        tax dollars in the General Fund.         The
Regents implement the last installment of this program, granting
President Duderstadt an annual increase of $16,667.
These two increases bring President Duderstadt's total annual
salary for fiscal year 1995-96 to $260, 709.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the July 1995
meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on
investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. Vice
President Neal submitted reports on projects established and summaries of a
selection of current research for the months of July and August 1995.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of gifts
received for the months of June, July, and August, 1995, as well as the report
for FY 1994-95. He also reported that with 22 months remaining in the
Campaign for Michigan, $879 million of the $1 billion goal had been received
in gifts, pledges, and new bequest intentions.
Allied Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program and other support in
the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering and for
employee matching gifts.................................................. 112,765
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the Biophysics Research Division..................... 127,638
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 6,250
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.....................................................................  130,342
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................. 14,985
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center, School of Business Administration......... 200,000


36




September Meeting, 1995


Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and for employee matching gifts.... 326,070
Ameritech Michigan, Detroit
for support in the Schools of Engineering and Management, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn.......................................... 60,000
Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.............................................. 11,147
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the University of Michigan Hospitals................................. 11,988
Anonymous Donor
350 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the John M. Jenks Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 17,981
Anonymous Donor
3,113 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock and a cash gift
for the Library Development Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint................ 102,173
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 16,833
Association of American Railroads, Washington, DC
for the Affiliates Program and the Physical Stress Research Fund in the College of
Engineering....................................................................56,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.......................................................5,270
Association Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, Geneva, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering.......... 101,991
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the Law School....... 25,000
Mandell L. Berman, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration
and for program support in the School of Social Work................................ 6,000
Peter D. Bernardo, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 9,200
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Award Fund in the College of Architecture and
U rban  Planning...............................................................  5,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for employee matching  gifts.......................................................  9,144
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the University Musical Society............................................ 11,362
David A. Brandon, Livonia
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................ 20,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
200 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Henry Ford Estate of Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn..............................................................  5,413
James W. Callison, Atlanta, Georgia
385 shares of Delta Airlines common stock
for the James W. Callison Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 26,373
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School.................................................   5,083
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education............................................ 49,500
Chamberlain Foundation, Birmingham
for graduate research internships and fellowships in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................... 10,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 30,000
Chrysler Corporation, Livonia
for the Museum of Art Friend's Benefit............................................   24,450
Church & Dwight Company, Inc., Piscataway, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 15,000
Code Alarm, Madison Heights
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects Fund
in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering............... 5,000


37




September Meeting, 1995


Marlin Cole and Connie Belin Charitable Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the David W. Belin Phi Beta Kappa Merit Scholarships in the Law School........... 62,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration................ 7,800
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
3,300 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship and the Julia Henning Conger Memorial
Scholarship in the Alumni Association, and for the Ralph G. Conger Scholarship........ 57,269
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus Media in the
College  of Engineering..........................................................20,000
Consumers Power Foundation, Jackson
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program, School of Business
Administration..................................20,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 47,534
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research in the School of Dentistry....................................... 31,850
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., West Bloomfield
for research in the Medical School.................................... 5,000
Mrs. Archibald W. Diack, Jr., Portland, Oregon
145 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Frances Novy Diack Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit
of the  M edical School........................................................... 10,340
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of Business
A dm inistration.................................................................. 5,000
E. C. Fackler, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the  University  Library........................................................ 5,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School..................................................... 6,000
Mildred S. Fletcher Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................ 5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Solar Car Project Fund and mechanical engineering support in the College
of Engineering................................................................. 17,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 7,500
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for program support in the School of Business Administration and for the
Frankel Fellowship in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work.......... 22,500
Robert W. Galvin Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for research support and equipment............................................... 50,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 6,855
Ralph J. Gerson, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration..... 5,000
Richard C. Gerstenberg, Bloomfield Hills
250 shares of Marsh & McLennan Companies common stock
for the Richard C. Gerstenberg Endowed Scholarship, School of Business
Adm inistration................................................................. 20,109
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, DC
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 10,000
Government of Canada, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 7,162
Carleton H. Griffin, Ann Arbor
215 shares of Sysco Corporation common stock
for the William A. Paton Scholarship and the Teaching Excellence Fund in the
School of Business Administration and for the Living Writers Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 6,074
Barbara Hamric, Dallas, Texas
701 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the Barbara Hamric Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of
the University of Michigan....................................................... 49,902


38




September Meeting, 1995


Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................ 5,000
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Social Work................................     10,000
Richard L. Hirsch Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Division of Kinesiology...................................   10,000
HOCO, Ltd., Niagara Falls, Canada
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 72,201
Homeland Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Bentley Historical Library.......................................... 6,500
Betty M. Hsiao, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................ 5,000
Hudson Development, Inc., San Francisco
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship and the Sam C. H. Ching and Barbara W.
Ching Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy...................................... 15,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Estate
for the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship, the Student Loan Program, and for
gifts pending designation........................................................ 10,312
Intel Corporation Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering....... 29,300
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry................... 10,000
Charles F. Johnson, Grand Rapids
for the Charles and Barbara Johnson Term Scholarship, School of Business
A dm inistration.................................................................10,000
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Lyme, New Hampshire
31,500 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Louise G. Johnson Weins Fund in the College of Engineering................ 957,656
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research  in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 15,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 95,359
Beatrice L. Johnston Trust
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  420,000
Clair C. Johnston Estate
for the Civil Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering................... 16,119
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 22,659
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and for employee
m atching  gifts..................................................................  5,220
John H. Kellogg Estate
for the John H. Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School......................... 15,000
Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 10,175
Gerald P. Kolb, Alden
200 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 9,688
Elizabeth Ford Kontulis, New Canaan, Connecticut
385 shares of Pyxis Corporation and 26 shares of Applix common stock
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of
M ichigan-Dearborn.............................................................. 9,515
King Chiu Kwan, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 5,000
Lamparter Foundation, Grosse Pointe Shores
for studies in religion support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 7,500
L. S. B. Leakey Foundation, Oakland, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 16,900
Winfield H. and Grace Song Line Trusts
for support in the School of Public Health, in memory of Grace Song Line............ 100,000
Lynne Fowler Linn Estate
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 25,000
Claude D. London, Oscoda
for the Kathy London Memorial Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 8,240
Al Long Ford, Warren
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 5,000


39




September Meeting, 1995


Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for support in the Medical School.................................... 30,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for Nichols Arboretum in the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for the University Musical Society...................................... 6,000
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 9,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................ 17,500
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship, College of Pharmacy and for employee
matching  gifts.................................................................  10,000
Martin Marietta, Orlando, Florida
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.........20,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the Building Fund in the School of Social Work.................................. 70,000
George Meader Estate
for the George Meader Law Library Book Fund in the Law School................ 25,000
Robert E. Meader Trust
for the Meader Family Award Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 50,893
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Pharmacy, WUOM/WVGR and WFUM-TV, the
University  of M ichigan-Flint...................................................... 7,640
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Medical School................................. 5,800
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship and the MEAM
Undergraduate Financial Aid Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 20,000
Janette M. Minnis Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 24,882
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for electrical and computer engineering support in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
James P. Murphy, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the Law  School..................................................... 5,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 7,590
New York Council on Adoptable Children, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in the School of Social Work.......................................... 12,500
North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology, Natick, Massachusetts
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 7,000
Richard W. Odgers, Mill Valley, California
for support in the Schools of Art and Law and for the Institute for Public Policy Studies.... 10,000
Orthopedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 48,248
Mary T. Padzieski Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 5,000
Paideia Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the Medical School............................................... o 61,710
Clifford A. Pedderson Trust
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 20,000
Perrin Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for the John S. Perrin Chair in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 40,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................. 1,820,500
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts................... 30,575
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,000


40




September Meeting, 1995


Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
and for WUOM/WVGR.............................10,300
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship and the Minority
Convertible Loan Fund in the College of Engineering................................ 8,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for scholarships, fellowships and other support in the School of Business
Administration and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and
the Arts, for the University Career Planning and Placement Office, and for
unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................................87000
Bernard and Audre Rapoport Foundation, Waco, Texas
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 5,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
for the Rearick Graduate Student Fund in the School of Education.................... 10,000
Ralph E. Reins, Vero Beach, Florida
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering............. 25,000
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
1,000 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Margaret A. Riecker Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and the Center for the Education of Women................................... 70,563
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies................................ 13,000
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School........................................ 22,000
Schneider (USA), Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Cardiac Biomaterials Research Fund in the Medical School.................... 29,720
Robert G. and Susan E. Schuur Trust, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School....................................................   10,000
Peter A. Schweitzer Trust
for the Schweitzer Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 8,000
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 20,000
Share Foundation, Grandview, Missouri
for research in  the Medical School..............................................  125,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
4,052 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting and the University Marching
Band Fund in the Department of Athletics....................................... 268,121
Irene Shipman Estate
for the Irene G. Shipman  Scholarship............................................. 16,555
'Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Society Bank Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 25,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies........................................................................ 10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research........ 94,300
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 10,000
St. Jude Medical, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Cardiac Biomaterials Research Fund in the Medical School.................... 38,488
Harold E. Steig, Bloomfield Hills
for the Elmer C. and Louise A. Steig Memorial Scholarship........................... 50,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School.................................... 8,581
Tanner Lecture Trust, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Philosophy Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................50,000
TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School.......5,000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering................................... 200,000


41




September Meeting, 1995


Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society and for the D'Arms in the Humanities,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................................... 5,100
Trenton Firefighters Local 2701
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighters Fund and the Burn Development
Research and Education Fund in the Medical School................................19,000
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies.............................................................  5,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh
for employee  matching  gifts.....................................................  14,018
John J. Voorhees, Ann Arbor
for the MomentUm Fund in the Medical School..................................... 5,000
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School......................................... 5,000
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy......................... 11,032
Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
503 shares of Endosonics and 300 shares of Digital Microwave common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 8,071
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship and other support in the College of Pharmacy. 67,200
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, School of Business
Administration................................................................ 126,217
Whitaker Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................  123,966
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts........................................................ 6,050
Manford L. Will Estate
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School....... 125,000
Hugh M. Wright, Battle Creek
78 shares of Michigan National Corporation common stock
for golf course restoration and other support in the Department of Athletics............. 8,249
E. Lisk Wyckoff, Jr. New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..................................................... 5,000
Ferdinand B. Zienty, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit
of the  College of Pharm acy....................................................... 5,000
AAE Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the School of Dentistry...........................................  24,575
Richard M. Adams, Mill Valley, California
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 10,000
Rebecca Adams-Nestor, San Jose, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
American Academy of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery Foundation,
Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School................................................ 20,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the Biophysics Research Division........................ 123,023
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 19,325
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................34,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.................................................  6,250
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 32,450
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 32,500
American Xyrofin, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for biochemical research in the School of Dentistry................................ 16,500


42




September Meeting, 1995


Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in the Medical School.......................................  40,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of
Engineering and for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration................................................ 10,000
A. P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
125 shares of Progressive Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................. 5,370
Blowitz-Ridgeway Foundation, Des Plaines, Illinois
for research in the Medical School......................................... 20,900
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
1,271 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund..........................................41,387
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 8,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Chrysler Minorities and Women Scholarship, for the Associates Program,
the BBSA Alumni Scholarship and other support in the School of Business
Administration for the School of Engineering at the University of MichiganDearborn, and for the University Musical Society and employee matching gifts....... 209,284
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank, Flint
for WFUM/TV, the University of Michigan-Flint..................................... 7,250
Commission on Preservation and Access, Washington, DC
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies........................ 30,000
Howard J. Cooper, Jr., Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of LSI Logic Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 53,625
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 32,739
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for the Program  in Society and Medicine........................................... 30,000
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................... 5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School........................ 14,922
Darby Group Companies, Inc., McLean, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of
Lew is A. Engm an................................................................ 5,000
Gladys E. Davis Trust
for the Gladys E. Davis Endowments at the University of Michigan, in the
Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 720,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.................................................  8,500
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for mechanical engineering support in the College of Engineering..................... 15,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 44,250
Caroline M. Duesberry Estate
for the Caroline M. Duesberry Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint....... 100,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music...... 25,000
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship Fund in the College of Engineering...... 9,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts......................................................   57,978
Fesjian Foundation, Pelham, New York
for Armenian studies support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 30,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts....................................................  198,340
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research and the Parker B. Francis Fellowship in the Medical School............... 36,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Social Work................ 22,500


43




September Meeting, 1995


General Signal Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.........25,000
Allan D. Gilmour, Dearborn
for the Allan D. Gilmour Endowed Doctoral Fellowship in the School of
Business Administration........................................................   10,000
Greenwall Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 28,350
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus Media in the
College of Engineering...........................................20,000
Seong S. Han, Ann Arbor
for prosthodontics support in the School of Dentistry................................ 10,000
Samuel D. Harris Trust
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry............. 30,000
Harley E. Harshman, Grosse Pointe Woods
250 shares of Browning-Ferris Industries common stock
for research  in  the Medical School.............................................. 9,953
Shirley and Barnett Helzberg Foundation, North Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration..............................................................  20,000
DuBose and Dorothy Heyward Memorial Fund
for the Porgy and Bess Fund in the School of Music................................. 10,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry..................... 95,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for integrated optics support in the College of Engineering........................... 25,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon 
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering...... 21,670
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School............................ 60,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School.............................................. 14,365
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.................................................................... 7,430
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Mildred L. Tuttle Scholarship in the School of Music....................... 340,000
Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 40,000
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship, College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts...................................................................  9,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education..........................................  182,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for Armenian studies support, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................... 5,000
Lucille P. Markey Charitable Trust
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 91,800
Charles K. Marquis, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..................................................... 5,000
McGraw Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 5,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for WFUM/TV and WUOM/WVGR, the University of Michigan-Flint................... 5,276
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 7,500
Michigan Council for Arts and Cultural Affairs, Midland
for the University Musical Society................................................12,000
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 5,000


44




September Meeting, 1995


Midwest Stamping, Bowling Green, Ohio
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects Fund
in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering............... 5,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 7,240
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
697 shares of Santa Fe Pacific Corporation common stock
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 17,686
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry................ 95,000
Munn Foundation, Inc., South Bend, Indiana
for support in the Medical School...............................................  15,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School................................................12,500
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 44,703
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.................................... 6,250
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.....................................     122,799
Norian Corporation, Cupertino, California
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 5,000
NYNEX Foundation, White Plains, New York
for employee  matching  gifts..................................................... 12,285
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
three shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock
for the Helen Olson Brower Memorial Fellowship in Environmental Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 72,900
O'Neal Construction, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 5,000
Orbital Sciences Corporation, Pomona, California
for the Space Physics Research Laboratory in the College of Engineering.............. 15,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development....................... 91,000
John E. Pfeifer Trust
for neurology research in the Medical School and for aerospace engineering
support in the College of Engineering.................                       10,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for graduate scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy and for
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of
Lewis A. Engm an................................................................ 6,600
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in  the School of Music................................................. 5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for employee matching gifts...................................................... 50,913
Ramapo Trust, New York, New York
for the Brookdale National Fellowship in the Medical School.................. 67,500
Research Genetics, Inc., Huntsville, Alabama
for pediatric genetics support in the Medical School................................. 14,000
Scripps Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 164,150
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Newport News, Virginia
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering
and for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice, the University of Michigan-Dearborn
35,000
Simirex, Inc., Mount Laurel, New Jersey
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 9,200
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the University Musical Society................................................   20,000
Goff Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
SmithKline Beecham Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................... 6,075
John L. Sobieski, Jr., Knoxville, Tennessee
for support of the Law   School..................................................... 5,000


45




September Meeting, 1995


Standard Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering................. 5,000
Edward Surovell Company, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................. 8,570
Systemix, Palo Alto, California
for the Solid Separation Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 7,500
Toledo Hospital, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School......................... 170,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for the High-Field Science Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 17,000
Toshiba Corporation, Kawasaki-Ku Kanagawa, Japan
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 15,000
University of Michigan Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship and the R. G. Forman Alumni Fund for
undergraduate education in the Alumni Association................................. 61,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics.................................................................... 12,000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the student aid and the Associates Program, School of Business Administration..... 20,000
Union Oil Company of California, Brea, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus Media in the
College  of Engineering.......................................................... 20,000
Vical, San Diego, California
for the Vical Gift Fund in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
Daniel W. Vittum, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School............................ 20,000
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
160 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for the University Musical Society.................................................  7,550
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for electrical
and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering................... 73,370
Warren P. Williamson, Jr., Fund, Youngstown, Ohio
for the Williamson Family Professorship in the School of Business Administration.... 592,000
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the Geriatrics Center in the Medical School..................................... 50,000
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 7,500
Morton M. Zedd, Richmond, Virginia
for support of the  Law  School....................................................  10,000
AAUW Educational Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the School of Education............................................ 10,000
Adac Plastics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Agvar Chemicals, Inc., Little Falls, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of
Lewis A. Engman...............................................................10,000
Richard B. Ainsworth, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
George E. Amendt, Ann Arbor
1,612 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 47,597
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for support in the Highway Safety Research Institute.....I........................ 220,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the Biophysics Research Division.......................... 72,661
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School................................. 12,500
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 19,997
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 55,000
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................12,500


46




September Meeting, 1995


American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Business Administration and for employee
m atching  gifts.................................................................88,258
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research and the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy..............6,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for minority and female scholarships and the Amoco Foundation Scholarship in
Mechanical Engineering in the College of Engineering, for geological sciences
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for gifts
pending  designation...............................................       108,500
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee m atching  gifts..................................................... 56,335
Ann Arbor Fire Protection, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................12,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 54,333
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 5,561
Atlas Valley Golf and Country Club, Grand Blanc
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund....................................  16,500
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
62 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.................................................................... 5,177
Eric V. and Linda Brown, Jr., Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School.......................... 6,000
Budres Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Budres Foundation Scholarship in the School of Music......................... 5,000
James P. Byrne, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the School of Social Work..........................................   25,000
Emma Chafitz Trust
for the Robert and Emma Chafitz Endowment in the Medical School.................. 45,000
Lucian W. Chaney, Ann Arbor
605 shares of Standard Federal Bank common stock
for the Lucian Chaney Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering.............................................. 22,007
Charles H. Chomet, Royal Oak
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 12,500
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for mechanical engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 9,000
Circon ACMI, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the
M edical School.................................................................. 5,000
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarships in the School of Social Work........................... 147,500
Coca-Cola, U.S.A. Division of the Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for employee matching gifts..................... 50,200
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,700
Graham H. Conger Estate
for the Julia Henning Memorial Scholarship in the Alumni Association and
for the Ralph  G. Conger Scholarship............................................  400,000
Conservation Food & Health Foundation, Inc., Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts
for research in the School of Public Health.........................................29,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship...................................... 5,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the School of Engineering Building Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 25,000
Sophia Dawson Estate
for undergraduate student aid..................................................... 5,500
DeKalb Genetics Foundation, DeKalb, Illinois
for em ployee  matching  gifts....................................................... 5,000


47




September Meeting, 1995


Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics, in memory of Richard Dubay...... 5,000
Delta Dental Plan of Michigan, Lansing
for the Delta Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry............................ 8,000
John H. DeYoung, Woodstown, New Jersey
100 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1936 Engineer's Fund in the College of Engineering............... 7,744
Dianon Systems, Stratford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School......10,000
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex, the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and other
support in the Department of Athletics; for the Risk Management Professorship
in the School of Business Administration; for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial
Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; for research
in the Medical School; and for student aid and other support in the Center for
the Education of Women.....................................................24,800
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for employee matching gifts.......................................................6,323
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy......................... 20,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Dupont Funds and other support in the School of Business Administration,
and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 140,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Communication Disorders Center in the Medical School....................... 25,000
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
100 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Ava Comin Case Scholarship and the Glenn McGeoch Memorial
Scholarship  in  the School of Music................................................. 5,375
Foundation for Sports Medicine Education and Research, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,000
Lawrence C. Frank, Yakima, Washington
for student aid in the School of Business Administration..............................5,700
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Arthur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in the School of Music............. 74,007
James F. Goodrich, Washington, DC
84 shares of Federal National Mortgage Association and
39 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the James F. Goodrich Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering..............................................10,082
Government of Canada, Neuroscience Laboratories, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,160
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 52,008
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 5,000
Rodolfo Uy Ham, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School............. 10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for environmental studies support in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 75,000
James L. Hobart, Los Altos, California
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 10,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School........................................ 50,000
S. C. Holman Foundation, Inc., Pennsauken, New Jersey
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn............................................................. 20,000
Hospital & Health Services Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 9,000
Hudson's, Flint
for the Music Academy and WFUM/TV, the University of Michigan-Flint............... 7,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships, fellowships and research in the Medical School...................... 87,500
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000


48




September Meeting, 1995


Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and for
employee  matching  gifts.................................................... 21,630
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering....... 21,700
Marion L. Johnson Estate
for the H. Marvin Pollard Endowed Professorship in the Medical School............. 150,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.......................... 332,109
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Library Studies and Public
Health and for employee matching gifts........................................ 1,025,270
K-I Chemical Research Institute Company, Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan
for the Synthesis Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....15,000
Abe Kirshenbaum, St. Joseph
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School............................ 5,000
Genevieve Latulip Irrevocable Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 15,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 8,910
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute and for
employee matching gifts..........................................            15,200
J. Glenn and Marjorie Rose Longworth Trust
for the Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the School of Education.................. 43,000
William T. Ludolph Estate
for the William T. Ludolph Junior Faculty Development Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  150,000
John H. Lunden, Big Rapids
200 shares of Chrysler Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................... 9,975
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................7,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 7,500
Masco Tech, Inc., Rochester
for research in the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation.................. 5,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the School of Education............................................ 29,760
Michigan Masonic Home, Alma
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................ 8,000
Sarah Morgan Fund, Flint
for the Sarah and Carl Morgan Theatre Scholarship, the University of
M ichigan-Flint................................................................. 10,450
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School............................................... 16,250
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 12,500
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Science and Engineering Center.............................. 6,500
Maxine Painter Trust
for undergraduate  student aid..................................................  141,292
Louis R. and Goldie Patchersky Trust
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School......... 20,191
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Philip Morris Campus Tolerance for Diversity Program in the School
of Education..................................................................  53,380
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
Adm inistration.................................................................. 5,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................... 7,470


49




September Meeting, 1995


Renal Physicians Association Research & Education Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School................................................ 59,700
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in the Medical School....................... 6,250
Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Boulder, Colorado
for the Vical Gift Fund in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................64,500
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Biomechanic Trauma and Sports Medicine Fund in the Medical School.......... 7,500
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School............................. 25,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Sante Fe, California
2,900 shares of Arcadian Partners L.P. and
1,800 shares of Providian Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and for the
University Marching Band Fund in the School of Music............................ 149,056
Gordon H. Sindecuse Estate
for the Sindecuse Dental Museum in the School of Dentistry...................... 1,877,296
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School.......13,378
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  258,032
Sparkasse Koblenz & Company, Koblenz, Germany
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 24,111
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Lyle L. Stephens, East Lansing
for wheelchair restraints research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 20,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 22,800
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School........................... 8,903
Charles J. Strosacker Foundation, Midland
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund.......................................... 50,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 5,000
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 10,000
University of Michigan Club-Flint, Flint
for the Library Development Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint................... 5,000
University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship......................... 6,400
University of Michigan Dugout Club, Ann Arbor
for baseball support in the Department of Athletics, in memory of Richard Dubay....... 13,610
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching  gifts...................................................... 15,050
Mark B. Wallner Foundation, Incline Village, Nevada
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 24,375
Warner Books, Inc., New York, New York
for software development support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts................................................................... 25,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Pharmacology Education/Research Fund and the Vincent Massey
Symposium in the Medical School and for University Musical Society.................. 33,000
Westinghouse Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the R. Jamison Williams Fund in the College of Engineering and for
employee matching  gifts..................................................... 12,075
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for electrical engineering and computer science fellowships, College of
Engineering, and for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies.............................................................  118,100
Robert L. Willson Trust
for undergraduate student aid.................................................... 10,000


50




September Meeting, 1995


Elizabeth F. Wood Estate
for the Walter F. Wood Scholarship in the School of Dentistry........................ 50,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business Administration,
and  the  College of Engineering...................................................50,000
AAUW Educational Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the School of Education...........................................  10,000
Adac Plastics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000
Agvar Chemicals, Inc., Little Falls, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of
Lewis A. Engman..........................................10,000
Richard B. Ainsworth, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
George E. Amendt, Ann Arbor
1,612 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Medical School.................................................47,597
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for support in the Highway Safety Research Institute............................. 220,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the Biophysics Research Division..........................72,661
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School................................. 12,500
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 19,997
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 55,000
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................12,500
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research, School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts........ 88,258
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research and the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.............. 6,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for minority and female scholarships and the Amoco Foundation Scholarship in
Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering; for geological sciences support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for gifts pending designation..... 108,500
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................... 56,335
Ann Arbor Fire Protection, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 12,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 54,333
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 5,561
Atlas Valley Golf and Country Club, Grand Blanc
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................... 16,500
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
62 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 5,177
Eric V. and Linda Brown, Jr., Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School.......................... 6,000
Budres Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Budres Foundation Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 5,000
James P. Byrne, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the School of Social Work.......................................... 25,000
Emma Chafitz Trust
for the Robert and Emma Chafitz Endowment in the Medical School.................. 45,000
Lucian W. Chaney, Ann Arbor
605 shares of Standard Federal Bank common stock
for the Lucian Chaney Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
College  of Engineering..........................................................  22,007


51




September Meeting, 1995


Charles H. Chomet, Royal Oak
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 12,500
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for mechanical engineering support in the College of Engineering..................... 9,000
Circon ACMI, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School.......5,000
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarships in the School of Social Work........................... 147,500
Coca-Cola, U.S.A. Division of the Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for employee matching gifts..................... 50,200
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,700
Graham H. Conger Estate
for the Julia Henning Memorial Scholarship in the Alumni Association and for
the Ralph G. Conger Scholarship............................................ 400,000
Conservation Food & Health Foundation, Inc., Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 29,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship......................... 5,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the School of Engineering Building Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn... 25,000
Sophia Dawson Estate
for undergraduate  student aid..................................................... 5,500
DeKalb Genetics Foundation, DeKalb, Illinois
for employee m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics, in memory of Richard Dubay...... 5,000
Delta Dental Plan of Michigan, Lansing
for the Delta Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry............................ 8,000
John H. DeYoung, Woodstown, New Jersey
100 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1936 Engineer's Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 7,744
Dianon Systems, Stratford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School...... 10,000
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex, the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and other
support in the Department of Athletics, for the Risk Management Professorship
in the School of Business Administration, for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial
Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for research
in the Medical School, and for student aid and other support in the Center
for the Education  of W omen..................................................... 24,800
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................... 6,323
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy......................... 20,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Dupont Funds and other support in the School of Business Administration,
and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 140,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Communication Disorders Center in the Medical School....................... 25,000
Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
100 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Ava Comin Case Scholarship and the Glenn McGeoch Memorial
Scholarship  in  the School of Music................................................. 5,375
Foundation for Sports Medicine Education and Research, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,000
Lawrence C. Frank, Yakima, Washington
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,700
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Arthur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in the School of Music............... 74,007
James F. Goodrich, Washington, DC
84 shares of Federal National Mortgage Association and
39 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the James F. Goodrich Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the College  of Engineering..................................................... 10,082


52




September Meeting, 1995


Government of Canada, Neuroscience Laboratories, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,160
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the School of Public Health......................................... 52,008
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics...................................   5,000
Rodolfo Uy Ham, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School........... 10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for environmental studies support in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 75,000
James L. Hobart, Los Altos, California
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School...................................... 50,000
S. C. Holman Foundation, Inc., Pennsauken, New Jersey
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn...............................................20,000
Hospital & Health Services Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.......................9,000
Hudson's, Flint
for the Music Academy and WFUM/TV, the University of Michigan-Flint............ 7,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships, fellowships and research in the Medical School...................... 87,500
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and for
employee  m atching  gifts......................................................... 21,630
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering....... 21,700
Marion L. Johnson Estate
for the H. Marvin Pollard Endowed Professorship in the Medical School............. 150,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.......................... 332,109
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Library Studies and Public Health
and for employee matching gifts............................................... 1,025,270
K-I Chemical Research Institute Company, Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan
for the Synthesis Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 15,000
Abe Kirshenbaum, St. Joseph
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School............................5,000
Genevieve Latulip Irrevocable Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 15,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 8,910
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute and for
employee  m atching  gifts......................................................... 15,200
J. Glenn and Marjorie Rose Longworth Trust
for the Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the School of Education.................. 43,000
William T. Ludolph Estate
for the William T. Ludolph Junior Faculty Development Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  150,000
John H. Lunden, Big Rapids
200 shares of Chrysler Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................... 9,975
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 7,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 7,500
Masco Tech, Inc., Rochester
for research in the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation.................. 5,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research  in  the School of Education............................................ 29,760


53




September Meeting, 1995


Michigan Masonic Home, Alma
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................ 8,000
Sarah Morgan Fund, Flint
for the Sarah and Carl Morgan Theatre Scholarship, the University of
M ichigan-Flint................................................................. 10,450
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 16,250
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................12,500
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Science and Engineering Center.............................. 6,500
Maxine Painter Trust
for undergraduate  student aid..................................................  141,292
Louis R. and Goldie Patchersky Trust
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.........20,191
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Philip Morris Campus Tolerance for Diversity Program, School of Education.... 53,380
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business, School of Business Administration.....5,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...................................                7,470
Renal Physicians Association Research & Education Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................59,700
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in the Medical School....................... 6,250
Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Boulder, Colorado
for the Vical Gift Fund in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 64,500
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Biomechanic Trauma and Sports Medicine Fund in the Medical School...........7,500
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School............................. 25,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Sante Fe, California
2,900 shares of Arcadian Partners L.P. and
1,800 shares of Providian Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and for the
University Marching Band Fund in the School of Music............................ 149,056
Gordon H. Sindecuse Estate
for the Sindecuse Dental Museum in the School of Dentistry...................... 1,877,296
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund, Medical School........... 13,378
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................  258,032
Sparkasse Koblenz & Company, Koblenz, Germany
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 10,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 24,111
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Lyle L. Stephens, East Lansing
for wheelchair restraints research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 20,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 22,800
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School......................... 8,903
Charles J. Strosacker Foundation, Midland
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund.......................................... 50,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 5,000
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 10,000
University of Michigan Club-Flint, Flint
for the Library Development Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint................... 5,000


54




September Meeting, 1995


University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship......................... 6,400
University of Michigan Dugout Club, Ann Arbor
for baseball support in the Department of Athletics, in memory of Richard Dubay....... 13,610
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts............................................ 15,050
Mark B. Wallner Foundation, Incline Village, Nevada
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 24,375
Warner Books, Inc., New York, New York
for software development support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 25,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Pharmacology Education/Research Fund and the Vincent Massey
Symposium in the Medical School and for University Musical Society..................33,000
Westinghouse Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the R. Jamison Williams Fund in the College of Engineering and for employee
m atching  gifts.................................................................12,075
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for electrical engineering and computer science fellowships in the College of
Engineering and for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 118,100
Robert L. Willson Trust
for undergraduate student aid.................................... 10,000
Elizabeth F. Wood Estate
for the Walter F. Wood Scholarship in the School of Dentistry........................ 50,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering................................................... 50,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
an Biorad Quaestor CD measurement tool, an Imagen Model 6320 image processor with laser
printer, an Olympus microscope, and two digital VT320 computer terminals, for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Apple Computers, Southfield
two Power McIntosh computers with display monitors and keyboards for the School of Music
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
nine letters written by Douglas MacArthur to Hamilton Fish, dated between 1921 and 1934, for
the Clements Library
Fife Electric Supply Company, Novi
lighting fixtures, for the University Golf Course clubhouse
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
a 1995 Ford Cargo CF-7000 truck for the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering
Richard W. Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
a 35-mm color slide collection, for the School of Natural Resources and Environment
Hanson Research Corporation, Chatsworth, California
one set Microette Autosampler circulating heater system and seven sets of vertical diffusion cell
assemblies with installation and training, for the College of Pharmacy
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
30 Hp model 712/60 workstations with monitors, six HP LaserJet printers, six HP Jet direct
interface cards, and six 8 MB memory expansion for HP 4SI printers, for the mathematics
department
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
computer equipment, for CREW in the School of Business Administration
Ernest N. McCarus, Ann Arbor
volumes 6-44 of The Middle East Journal, dated 1952-1990, for the Department of Near Eastern
Studies
National Instruments, Austin, Texas
a LabVIEW Full Development System with software upgrades, for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Professional Alliance, Inc., Sterling Heights
a CD-ROM product, Concise Vision for periodontics, for the School of Dentistry
Wesley Rae, Flushing
an Apple IIGS computer with a color monitor, key board, and other related equipment


55




September Meeting, 1995


Southeast Asia Art Foundation
30 binders of 868 photographs, 1316 protective sleeves, 148 pages of text, 413 interleaving pages,
and 39 prints illustrating Cambodian sculptures, for the history of art department
Spectrum Printers, Tecumseh
design and printing of 1,000 Jazz Revisited brochures and 10,000 letters, return cards, with
mailing and return envelopes, for WUOM/WVGR's Michigan Radio annual end of year mail
appeal
Joan Heldreth Bell, Houston, Texas
a collection of Gray Civil War and family letters, and the Source Book encyclopedia for the
Clements Library
Dory Heldreth Graham, Ann Arbor
a collection of Gray Civil War and family letters, and the Source Book encyclopedia for the
Clements Library
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
37 binders containing 1609 black and white photographs, 740 color slides, 451 pages of text, 288
interleaving pages, 2464 protective sleeves, and 163 other publication prints all illustrating
Japanese Architecture for the history of art department
IOTech, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
a data acquisition board and related equipment and software for a PC compatible computer for
the Department of Aerospace Engineering
Martin Marx, Bingham Farms
a retrospective collection of art works by glass artist David R. Huchthausen for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn art collection
Robert Pilzninski, Dearborn
a Macintosh computer with a monitor, keyboard, printer, computer desk and various software for
the Child Development Center
Q.E.D. Environmental Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
a Lepel inductive furnace, a 2.5KW 230/1 phase and a 24 amp for the Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering
Ted Tuttle, Southfield
four architectural books for the University Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Afternoon Delight, Ann Arbor            Kenneth Leach, Brattleboro, Vermont
Block's Nursery, Romulus                Paul R. Lichter, Ann Arbor
Beatrice T. Caldwell, Flint             Meijer, Inc. - Center Road, Flint
Perry Daneshgari, Flint                 Meijer, Inc. - Pierson Road, Flint
John D. Dillery, Ann Arbor              Leslie Page Moch, East Lansing
Carol J. Greene, Commerce Township      Jeanette Navarre, Brighton
Jewel F. Hunter, Ann Arbor              Joseph L. Rife, Ann Arbor
Imperial Sports Team Store, Flint       Raymond J. Rogers, Riverside, Connecticut
Michael J. Kruzich, Ypsilanti
Personnel Actions. Provost Machen, Chancellor Nelms, and Chancellor Renick submitted a number of personnel actions. Chancellor Nelms
highlighted   the   appointment of Virginia R. Allen          as vice chancellor for
student services and enrollment management.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Featherman, David L., Ph.D., Director, Institute for Social Research, also appointed
Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lok, Anna S., M.B.B.S., Professor of Internal Medicine, October 1, 1995
Middlebrooks, John C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, August 1, 1995


56




September Meeting, 1995


Park, Denise C., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
Raitt, Suzanne, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Ph.D., Professor of History and Women's Studies, January 1, 1996
Strecher, Victor J., Ph.D., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Suchard, Suzanne J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Waller, Patricia F., Ph.D., from Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and
Administration, School of Public Health, and Director, University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute, to Professor of Health Management and Policy,
School of Public Health, and Director, University of Michigan Transportation Research
Institute
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1995-August 31, 1998
Frost, Carolyn O., Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, and Associate
Dean, School of Information and Library Studies, reappointed Associate Dean
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Akil, Huda, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and the Gardner C. Quarton Collegiate
Professor of Neurosciences, also appointed Co-Director, Mental Health Research
Institute, October 16, 1995
Barber, James R., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
also appointed Acting Chair, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Barnfather, Janet S., from Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, to Associate
Professor of Nursing, School of Health Professions and Studies, without tenure,
UM-Flint
England, Anthony W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure, College
of Engineering, also appointed Associate Dean for Faculty Programs, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, September 22, 1995-August 31, 1996
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social
Work, also appointed Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kunkel, Steven L., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, September 22, 1995-August 31, 1996
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed the William
Davidson Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
five-year term
Ludwig, Martha L., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, and
Research Biophysicist, also appointed Interim Chair, Biophysics Research Division,
one-year term
Macdonald, Robert L., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology,
without tenure, also appointed the Russell N. DeJong Professor of Neurology, five-year
term, August 1, 1995


57




September Meeting, 1995


Meyer, William J., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Interim Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, UM-Flint, nine-month term
Nabel, Elizabeth G., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Physiology, without tenure, August 1, 1995
Watson, Stanley J. Jr., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and the Theophile Raphael
Collegiate Professor of Neurosciences, also appointed Co-Director, Mental Health
Research Institute, October 16, 1995
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Allen, Virginia R., Vice Chancellor for Student Services and Enrollment Management,
UM-Flint, three-year term
Bornstein, George J., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also
appointed the C. A. Patrides Collegiate Professor of English, five-year term, July 1, 1995
Chambers, David L. III, Professor of Law, with tenure, and Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate
Professor of Law, reappointed Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law,
five-year term
Green, Thomas A., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, Professor of Law, with tenure, and the John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor
of Law, Law School, reappointed the John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law,
five-year term
Jones, Edward R., the James B. and Grace J. Nelson Visiting Assistant Professor of
Philosophy, fall term
Lempert, Richard O., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, Chair, Department of Sociology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Law, with tenure, and the
Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, reappointed the Francis A.
Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, five-year term
McClary, Susan, the Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, September 3-September 23, 1995
Mitofsky, Warren J., the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, fall term
Moravcik, Jozef, from Visiting Professor of Law to the L. Bates Lea Visiting Professor of
Law, fall term
Nell, Victor, the Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, March 10-April 6, 1996
Nurse, Esrold A., Assistant Dean for Student Academic Affairs, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, five-year term
Regan, Donald H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, Professor of Law, with tenure, and the William W. Bishop, Jr., Collegiate
Professor of Law, Law School, reappointed the William W. Bishop, Jr., Collegiate
Professor of Law, five-year term
Sklar, Lawrence, from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and the James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Professor of Philosophy to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and the
William K. Frankena Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, five-year term, July 1, 1995
Vicinus, Martha, correction to title reported in July 1994
Vining, Joseph, Professor of Law, with tenure, and the Harry Burns Hutchins Collegiate
Professor of Law, reappointed the Harry Burns Hutchins Collegiate Professor of Law,
five-year term
White, James B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Law, with tenure, and the L. Hart
Wright Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, reappointed the L. Hart Wright
Collegiate Professor of Law, five-year term
William K. Frankena Collegiate Professorship in Philosophy.
The Regents approved the establishment of the William K. Frankena Collegiate Professorship in Philosophy, effective July 1, 1995
William B. Taylor Collegiate Professorship in Dermatology. The
Regents approved the establishment of the William B. Taylor Collegiate
Professorship in Dermatology, effective September 1, 1995


58




September Meeting, 1995


Lynn    and   Ruth   Townsend      Professorship    in  Communication
Disorders. The Regents approved the establishment of the Lynn and Ruth
Townsend Professorship in Communication Disorders, effective August 1, 1995
The following committee appointments were approved:
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Downing, Karen E., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1997, vice Kent J. Sheets, term expired
Thompson, Levi T. Jr., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1997, vice Peggy J. Foss, term expired
Alumni Association Business and Financial Affairs Committee
Beaver, Frank E., retroactive reappointments, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996
Krumm, William B., retroactive reappointments, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996
Traugott, Michael W., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996, vice Cedric V.
Fricke, term expired
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Reappointments effective October 1, 1995-September 30, 1996:
Beuche, James R.        Hoyt, Ruth B.          Schoff Joanna
Clark, C. E. Fraser Jr.  Karmazin, Anne M.     Seger, Martha R.
Cross, Thomas N.        Kennedy, Sally         Shapiro, Harold T.
Diedrich, Duane N.      Kingsley, Thomas C.    Stebbins, William C.
Hamp, Stephen           Klancnik, James M.     Thompson, Bradley M.
Hatcher, Harlan H.      Mason, Philip P.       Thurber, Cleveland Jr.
Hayes, Walter           Pohrt, Richard A.      Upton, David
Heydon, Peter N.        Price, Jacob M.        Wheeler, John D.
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Railton, Peter A., September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996, vice Domna C. Stanton, on leave
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
McDonald, Terrence, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998, vice John P. Chamberlain, term expired
Military Officer Education Committee
Pierce, Penny F., reappointed July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998
Woods, Richard D., reappointed July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Lazarus, Belinda D., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998, vice Joseph A. Cepuran, term expired
Thornton, Leslie II, September 1-December 31, 1995, vice Raymond P. Kettel, sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Gerigk, Carola A., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 8, 1995
Zwetchkenbaum, Samuel R., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, August 1, 1995
College of Engineering
Chick, Stephen E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering
Collins, Kevin R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Hu, Shixin, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Northrop, Mary J., B.S., Lecturer in Technical Communications
Semrau, Jeremy D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Shi, Jianjun, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering


59




September Meeting, 1995


Stojadinovic, Bozidar, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Wasserman, Kimberly M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
Division of Kinesiologv
George, Thomas R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Kinesiology, July 1, 1995
Law School
Lyn, Andrea D., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law
Tonner, Grace C., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, July 15, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aguado-Perez, Norberto, Licenciado, Lecturer I in Spanish
Banaszak Holl, Mark M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Burnstein, James S., M.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Campbell, Stephen J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art
Caron, David, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of French
Cassin, Jan L., M.S., Lecturer I in Biology
Chen, Qinghai, M.A., Lecturer III in Chinese
Cornish, Alison, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Italian
Croley, Laura S., A.B., Lecturer II in English, Residential College
Dempster, Brian K., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
DeVries, Diana B., B.S., Lecturer II in Women's Studies,
Dunavan, Sandra L., M.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, July 1, 1995
Engblom, Philip C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Marathi Language, July 1, 1995
Fredrickson, Barbara L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Friendly, Jonathan, B.A., Lecturer II in Communication, July 1, 1995
Frohlich, Michael, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator, Herbarium
Glass, Jennifer M. B., A.M., Lecturer I in Psychology
Greene, Dana M., A.B., Lecturer II in Sociology
Hernandez, Maria P., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
Kim, Richard S., M.A., Lecturer II in Asian American Studies
Kinzer, Mark S., M.A., Lecturer I in New Testament, July 1, 1995
Laskowski, Gene L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Lay, Howard G., Assistant Professor of History of Art
Lee, Fiona, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration
Libretti, Timothy R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English
Loncar, Michael G., B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Martin, Karin A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Mateo, Jill M., M.S., Lecturer I in Psychology
McKay, Timothy A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
McKinney, Todd S., B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Montoya, Maria E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and American Culture
Murphy, Margaret A., M.A., Lecturer II in Sociology
Muth, Albert M., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
Nagel, Julie J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
O'Foighil, Diarmaid, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator, Museum of
Zoology
Ozel, Bilge, M.A., Lecturer I in Turkish Language, July 1, 1995
Palmer, Janet P., B.A., Lecturer II in Sociology
Pierce, Gillian B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French
Rodriguez, Maria I., M.A., Lecturer II in Spanish and Linguistics, Residential College
Ryan, Clare M., M.S., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Standish, Marc, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Starrels, Marjorie E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Steiff, Julie A., M.A., Lecturer I in English
Viers, Yannick A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French
Wang, Lan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Yervasi, Carina, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of French
Zhao, Shanyang, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology


60




September Meeting, 1995


Medical School
Angelos, Peter, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Athey, Brian D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, July 1, 1995
Ballester, Christina B., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, July 1, 1995
Breidahl, William H., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Chepeha, Douglas, A., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1995
Cinti, Sandro K., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Clevens, Ross A., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1995
Cole, William H., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1995
Cook, Timothy H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 17, 1995
Crump, John R. C., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Devlin, William H., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Dumas, Michel D., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Fader, Darrell J., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, July 1, 1995
Flynn, Joseph T., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, August 15, 1995
Forde, Wayne A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, July 17, 1995
Freidberg, Andrew A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, August 10, 1995
Geiger, James D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Golladay, Eustace S., M.D., Clinical Professor II of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Goyal, Rajiva, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Groenhout, Edward G., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Hallinen, Diane L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Heidebrink, Judith L., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1995
Hilborn, Mark D., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Hogikyan, Norman D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, August 1, 1995
Hudson, Michael P., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Johnson, David B. S., M.B.B.Ch., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Kingery, Suzanne, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 17, 1995
Koo, Harry P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Kurtz, Ron M., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 17, 1995
McGinn, Cornelius J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, September 1, 1995
Meaney, James F. M., M.B.B.Ch., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1995
Michael, Claire W., M.B.B.Ch., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, July 1, 1995
Michaels, Andrew J., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Murman, Daniel L., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1995
Nelson, Virginia A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 10, 1995
Olson, Eva D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, July 1, 1995
Osborne, Janet L., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1995
Pagani, Francis D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Panahi, Parviz, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1995
Park, John M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Pearson, Sayuri V., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1995
Pituch, Kenneth J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 1, 1995
Polley, Linda S., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 1, 1995
Pou-Vendrell, Carlos R., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1995
Reeves, Pamela J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Reickert, Craig A., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Salot, Lee A., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 1, 1995
Sanda, Martin, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, July 1, 1995
Schreiner, Robert J. Jr., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Schultz, Carol H., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Shane, Steven A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Sheldon, Eric A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, August 1, 1995
Simeone, Diane M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Singleton, John R., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1995
Smith, Yolanda R., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1995
Soriano, Jose A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, August 1, 1995


61




September Meeting, 1995


Su, Grace L., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1995
Sweeney, John F., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Tipirneni, Hiral V., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Turner, Raymond S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology, July 1, 1995
Vallance, David K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Varma, Navin K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Neurology, July 1, 1995
Viltri, Salvatore, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995 
Wang, Stewart C., Ph.D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1995
Weber, James E., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Wilkerson, Catherine E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Wilkerson, William M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, August 1, 1995
Wittenberg, Marc I., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1995
Yahanda, Alan M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 1, 1995
Zivot, Joel B., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, July 1, 1995
School of Music
Andre, Naomi A., M.A., Assistant Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology)
Cleaver, Gerald W., B.M.E., Assistant Professor of Music (Jazz Studies)
Herseth, Freda A., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Voice)
Racine, Melody L., B.A., Lecturer in Music (Voice), May 1, 1995
Walden, Donald, Diploma, Assistant Professor of Music (Jazz Studies)
School of Nursing
Fisher, Maura A., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Lee, Jan L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, August 15, 1995
Wurst, Delores S., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Odeh, Rudina M., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, August 1, 1995
School of Public Health
Banaszak-Holl, Jane C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy
Parker, Edith A., Dr.Ph., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
Wang, Caroline, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
School of Public Policy
Charles, Kerwin K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Health, and
Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ross, Douglas D., M.P.A., Lecturer in Public Policy
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Samorski, Jan H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communications
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Beyer-Houda, Bonnie, Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Jones, Kimberly R., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre
Kaufman, Martin M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Earth and Resource Science
Parfitt, Bruce D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
Woehrle, Kathleen L., M.S.W., Lecturer in Social Work
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Dandekar, Hemalata, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, also appointed Director, Center for South and Southeast Asian
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and Arts, July 1, 1995


62




September Meeting, 1995


School of Business Administration
Oxley, Joanne E., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
Edge, Marion J., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Johnson, Richard A., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alspector, Tammy L., from Lecturer II of Philosophy, to Graduate Student Teaching
Assistant, July 1, 1995
Campbell, Andrew R., from Lecturer II in American Studies, to Graduate Student Teaching
Assistant
Guerra, Nancy, from Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, to Adjunct Associate
Research Scientist, June 1, 1995
Henderson-King, Donna H., from Lecturer II to Visiting Assistant Professor II of Women's
Studies
McAlister, William L. II., from Lecturer I in Spanish, to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant
Thompson, Heather A., from Lecturer I to Visiting Assistant Professor II of History
Medical School
Bloembergen, Wendy E., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
July 1, 1995
Daoud, Emile G., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1995
Doi, Kei, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, July 1, 1995
Ferguson, Kevin, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Joynt, Lynn K., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, July 1, 1995
Maxvold, Norma J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, August 1, 1995
Moroi, Sayoko E., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, July 8, 1995
Strouse, Peter J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, July 1, 1995
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Akingbehin, Kuimi, from Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with
tenure, to Adjunct Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science,
July 1, 1995
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Schwartz, Joseph M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED EMERITUS/A
FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Datsko, Joseph, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, September 1, 1995
Sawyer, Thomas M., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, September 1, 1995 -April 30, 1996
Institute for Social Research
Douvan, Elizabeth M., the Catherine Neafie Kellogg Professor Emerita of Psychology and
Women's Studies and Research Scientist Emerita, June 1-July 31, 1995
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Becker, Marvin B., Professor Emeritus of History, September 1-December 31, 1995
Dernberger, Robert F., Professor Emeritus of Economics, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Eldersveld, Samuel J., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, January 1, 1996-April 30, 1996
Garbaty, Thomas J., Professor Emeritus of English, September 1-December 31, 1995
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
Nordman, Christer E., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, September 1-December 31, 1995
Wagner, Warren H. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, Curator Emeritus of Pteridophytes,
and Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, September 1-December 31, 1995
Weinreich, Gabriel, Professor Emeritus of Physics, July 1, 1995-August 31, 1995


63




September Meeting, 1995


Medical School
Bohr, David F., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, August 1, 1995 -June 30, 1996
Bull, Frances E., Professor Emerita of Internal Medicine, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Dabich, Lyubica, Professor Emerita of Internal Medicine, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Floyd, John C. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Hawkins, Joseph E. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology (Physiological
Acoustics), one-year term
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Mikkelson, William M., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, one-year term, July 1, 1995
Smith, William S., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, one-year term, March 1, 1995
Thompson, George R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term, July 1, 1995
School of Nursing
Gage, Lois W., Professor Emerita of Nursing, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
School of Social Work
Wolfson, Charles S., Professor Emeritus of Social Work, September 1-December 31, 1995
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Coffey, Thomas L., Professor Emeritus of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work,
May 1-August 31, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Brandle, Kurt, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Crandall, J. Sterling, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough, September
1-December 31, 1995
Kleinman, Kent F., Assistant Professor of Architecture, leave without salary
School of Art
Hinton, Alfred F., Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995 -December 31, 1995
School of Business Administration
Blair, David C., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995
Karnani, Aneel G., Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Kon, Stanley J., Professor of Finance, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Lee, Charles M. C., Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, contract leave
Pirrong, Stephen C., Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, leave
without salary
Sepanski, Jungsywan H., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science, leave
without salary
Taylor, James R., Professor of Marketing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Tichy, Noel M., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Hanks, Carl T., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
May 1-September 30, 1995
Israel, Jerold H., the Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996


64




September Meeting, 1995


College of Engineering
Akhavan, Rayhaneh, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Beck, Robert F., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995
Bilello, John C., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Applied Physics, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Felbeck, David K., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough
Liker, Jeffrey K., Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
McClamroch, N. Harris, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, Chair,
Department of Aerospace Engineering, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Papalambros, Panos Y., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Perakis, Anastassios N., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Samson, Perry J., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, and Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, without
tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave
Schwank, Johannes W., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Thompson, Levi T. Jr., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave
Tommelein, Iris D., Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, leave without salary
Vinh, N. X., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Wight, James K., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Becchetti, Frederick D. Jr., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Blinder, S. M., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Bright, Charles C., Lecturer III in History, Residential College, leave without salary,
January 1-December 31, 1996
Brown, Elsa B., Assistant Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, duty
off campus
Burbank, Jane R., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Carpenter, Bogdana, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 1996
Chamberlin, John R., Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Clarke, Roy, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Farley, W. Reynolds, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Forsyth, Ilene H., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Fossum, Jarl E., Associate Professor of New Testament Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Frohlich, Michael, Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator, Herbarium, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1995
Gasharov, Vesselin N., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary
Gidley, David W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Grew, Raymond, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1996


65




September Meeting, 1995


Griffin, Henry C., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Heirich, Max A., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Helling, Robert B., Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Laitner, John P., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Lewis, Donald J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus, one-year term,
July 1, 1995
McLoyd, Vonnie C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Roth, David, Assistant Professor of Economics, leave without salary
Sandelands, Lloyd E., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Scheppele, Kim L., Associate Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure,
and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, scholarly activity
leave
Simons, Patricia, Associate Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995
Skantze, P. A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Smuts, Barbara B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Terada, Rei M., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Tomozawa, Yukio, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
1996
Weinstein, Michael I., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Yablo, Stephen J., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Medical School
Bree, Robert L., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1 -December 31, 1995
Coon, Minor J., the Victor C. Vaughn Distinguished University Professor, with tenure,
phased retirement, September 1, 1995-August 31, 2006
Dowling, Catherine A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, July 10-July 31, 1995,
family medical leave without salary, August 1-October 17, 1995
Koomey, John M., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, October 1, 1995-July 31, 1996
Morley, George W., the Norman F. Miller Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
retirement furlough, January 1, 1996-December 31, 1997
Schwartz, Jessica, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995 -August 31, 1996
Smith, Yolanda R., Lecturer in Microbiology and Immunology, leave without salary,
July 1-July 31, 1995
School of Music
Becker, Judith O., Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, sabbatical
leave
Daugherty, Michael K., Associate Professor of Music (Composition), sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Korsyn, Kevin E., Associate Professor of Music (Music Theory), sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Lewis, Ralph B., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Sargous, Harry W., Professor of Music (Oboe), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Shirley, George I., Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, and the Joseph Edgar Maddy
Distinguished University Professor of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
Udow, Michael W., Professor of Music (percussion), sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996


66




September Meeting, 1995


School of Natural Resources
Patterson, Richard L., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1996
Yaffee, Steven L., Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
College of Pharmacy
Partipilo, Maria L., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, leave without salary,
June 20-August 31, 1995
School of Public Health
Becker, Mark P., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Butter, Irene H., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, retirement
furlough
Cornell, Richard G., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1995-January 31, 1996
Harris, Craig, Associate Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, School of Public Health, and
Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School, sabbatical leave
Neighbors, Harold W., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with
tenure, leave without salary
Smith, Dean G., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Thomas, John W., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Warner, Kenneth E., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, and the
Richard D. Remington Collegiate Professor of Public Health, sabbatical leave
School of Social Work
Powell, Thomas J., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Taylor, Robert J., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Bogin, Barry A., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
Crapo, Paul B., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
Heady, Judith E., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
LaChance, Michael A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-December 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Kettel, Raymond P., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering
Mallick, Pankaj K., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
Narasimhamurthi, Natarajan, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995
Tsui, Louis Y., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Ames, James R., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Farrell, William J., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Paige, Bruno, Assistant Professor of Music, scholarly activity leave


67




September Meeting, 1995


UM-Flint School of Management
Moon, I. Douglas, Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective August 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Almy, Dean J. III, Assistant Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, resigned,
July 31, 1995
School of Art
Canine, Steven K., Assistant Professor of Art, resigned, May 31, 1995
School of Dentistry
Bretz, Walter A., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned, August 31, 1995
Gao, Zhirong, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned, July 16, 1995
O'Neal, Robert B., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned, August 31, 1995
School of Education
Knowles, J. Gary, Assistant Professor of Education, term complete, July 31, 1995
College of Engineering
Peek, Ralf, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, term complete, May
31, 1995
School of Information and Library Studies
Foster, John K., Lecturer in Information and Library Studies, resigned, July 31, 1995
Pao, Miranda Lee, Professor of Information and Library Studies, deceased, August 10, 1995
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Andrushkiw, Vera M., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, resigned, April 30, 1995
Barrett, Andrea F., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1995
Boklan, Kent D., Lecturer II in Mathematics, term complete, August 31, 1995
Burr, Suzanne, Lecturer II in Telecommunication Arts, resigned, April 30, 1995
Carr, Robert K., Lecturer II in Biology, term complete, December 31, 1994
Cho, Nancy J., Lecturer II in American Studies, term complete, December 31, 1994
Clark, Francelia, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term, complete,
June 30, 1995
Criso, Rachel A., Lecturer II in French, term complete, May 31, 1995
Fabos, Bettina J., Lecturer II in Communication, term complete, June 30, 1995
Giaquinto, Anthony, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, August 15, 1995
Grech, Elaine, Lecturer I in Italian, term complete, April 30, 1995
Grech, John, Lecturer II in French, term complete, April 30, 1995
Hovick, James W., Lecturer II in Chemistry, term complete, June 30, 1995
Hu, Yi, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, August 31, 1995
Ischi, Nicolas P., Lecturer II in French, term complete, April 30, 1995
Kim, Jaemin, Lecturer II in Korean, term complete, December 31, 1994
Koskela, Pekka J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, July 31, 1995
Messer, Sarah, Lecturer II in English Literature, term complete, December 31, 1994
Olmedo-Monje, David, Lecturer II in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1995
Piccoli, Sonia, Lecturer I in Italian, term complete, April 30, 1995
Pitt, Nigel J. E., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, August 31, 1995
Place, Emi, Lecturer I in Japanese, term complete,,.December 31, 1994
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, term complete,
December 31, 1994
Reeves, Jimmie L., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, term complete,
June 30, 1995
Rosoff, Susan H., Lecturer II in French, Residential College, term complete,
December 31, 1994
Satake, Kenji, Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, resigned,. August 31, 1995


68




September Meeting, 1995


Smail, Kathleen M. M., Lecturer III in French, resigned, May 31, 1995
Swanson, Irena, the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term
complete, July 31, 1995
Taylor, G. Keith, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1995
West, James E., Lecturer II in Economics, term complete, June 30, 1994
White, Nicholas P., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1995
Medical School
Auslender, Marcelo J., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, term complete,
June 30, 1995
Bainnson, Andrew N., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1995
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retired, July 31, 1995
Blasier, Ralph B., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, resigned, June 30, 1995
Bradley, Scott M., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, July 31, 1995
Braun, Daniel K., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, term complete, August 31, 1995
Brown, Sandra M., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1995
Cleary, Robert M. Jr., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, August 21, 1995
Collito, Michael F., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, June 30, 1995
Cooper, Kevin D., Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, resigned, June 30, 1995
Ditto, John L., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, June 30, 1995
Eaton, Michael P., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, June 30, 1995
Fancher, Linda E., Lecturer in Dermatology, resigned, July 31, 1995
Felbeck, Peter G., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 7, 1995
Geiss, Michael J. III, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1995
Gerndt, Steven J., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, June 30, 1995
Green, Robert A., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1995
Greenman, George W., Lecturer in Psychiatry, term complete, June 30, 1995
Henderson, Pamela R., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1995
Jove, Richard, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, resigned,
August 31, 1995
Kletter, Gad B., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, term
complete, July 31, 1995
Majmudar, Gopa J., Lecturer in Dermatology, resigned, July 10, 1995
Maragos, William F., Lecturer in Neurology, resigned, August 15, 1995
Murray, Jeffrey R., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, June 30, 1995
Nelson, Bruce R., Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Assistant Professor of Surgery, and
Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, resigned, August 3, 1995
Stewart, Donald H. III, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1995
Tallio, Debora G., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, resigned,
August 31, 1995
Taylor, Richard P., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned,
June 30, 1995
Tennekoon, Gihan I., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and
Professor of Neurology, without tenure, resigned, August 11, 1995
Thomas, Giovana R., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, resigned, August 16, 1995
Whitehouse, Frank Jr., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure,
retired, August 31, 1995
School of Music
Lykes, Karen S., Assistant Professor of Music (Voice), resigned, May 31, 1995
School of Nursing
Corte, Colleen M., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1995
Wilson, Vicki I., Lecturer in Nursing, term complete, May 31, 1995
School of Social Work
Van Hook, Mary P., Assistant Professor of Social Work, resigned
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Pena, Robert A., Assistant Professor of Education and Public Administration, resigned, June
30, 1995


69




September Meeting, 1995


UM-Dearborn School of Management
Choi, Jaehwa, Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems, resigned
Fricke, Cedric V., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1995
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bloom, Thomas A., Chair and Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, resigned,
June 30, 1995
Johnston, Charles W., Assistant Professor of Economics, term complete, May 31, 1995
Matcheck, Dale C., Assistant Professor of Economics, resigned
Ryan, Betty L., Lecturer in Music, retired, June 30, 1995
Velazco Y. Trianosky, Gregory W., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, resigned
Retirement Memoirs. Six retirement memoirs were submitted.
David R. Bassett, M.D., associate professor of internal medicine,
retired from active faculty status on July 31, 1995.
Dr. Bassett received his B.A. degree in 1949 from Harvard University
and his M.D. degree in 1953 from Tufts College Medical School in Boston.
He completed his residency in internal medicine at the Jefferson Medical
College Hospital in Philadelphia in 1955. In the last three years of his
postdoctoral training, he held the title of NIH Postdoctoral Research Fellow
in Cardiology and was an instructor in medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine. In 1963, Dr. Bassett went to Queen's
Hospital in Honolulu, Hawaii, where he was assistant chief of medicine in
charge of teaching. In 1966, he was also appointed associate professor of
public health at the University of Hawaii; he was appointed associate professor of medicine in 1967.
In 1968, Dr. Bassett came to the University of Michigan as an associate
professor of internal medicine. His hyperlipidemia program within the
Division of Hypertension became a major referral and training center in
atherosclerosis prevention and coronary risk reduction.   Dr. Bassett's
concept that an individual's lipid and blood sugar status should be the basis
for both prevention and clinical services is reflected in his work on standardization of laboratory methods and in the organization of outreach screening
programs for atherosclerosis risk factors. These programs became the logical
base for his research productivity.
During his 27 years of service at the University of Michigan, Dr. Bassett
has distinguished himself by his devotion to his work, his scholarly approach
to all issues at hand, his sincere interest in his patients, his readiness to
educate others, and his unswerving concentration on cardiovascular prevention, both as a clinical and as a public health problem. His always-evident
idealism and humanism, his unselfish cooperative spirit, and his personal
modesty have made him a highly appreciated and respected colleague and a
role model to younger physicians.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming David R.
Bassett associate professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Harriet A. Burge, associate research scientist in the Department of
Internal Medicine, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1993.
Dr. Burge received her B.A. (1960) and M.A. (1962) degrees from San
Francisco State University and her Ph.D. degree (1966) from the University


70




September Meeting, 1995


of Michigan, under the guidance of Professor Robert Shaffer. She was a
research assistant and Rackham predoctoral fellow during this period and,
subsequently, a postdoctoral assistant to Professor Shaffer (1966-68).
Dr. Burge joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1972 as a
research associate in the Department of Internal Medicine.  She was
promoted to assistant research scientist in 1977 and associate research scientist in 1988. During their 25-year collaboration, she and Dr. William
Solomon systematically evaluated the prevalence and clinical impact of a
broad range of airborne allergens. This work was recognized by the Distinguished Service Award of the American Academy of Allergy and Immunology
in 1988. Dr. Burge's painstaking studies of differential bioparticulate recoveries by mechanical sampling devices were especially critical to the success of
this effort. Her work facilitated initial clinical appraisal of many important
fungus materials, and she also conducted productive studies of pollen, mite,
and insect allergens. Many fellows of the Allergy Division were introduced to
bench research under her supervision, and several of them have continued to
pursue aeroallergen studies as academic physician-scientists.
In the course of her work, Dr. Burge developed special interest in the
microbial ecology and, especially, aeromycology of enclosed situations. In
addition to her many-layered research effort and resulting publications, she
developed a clinical reference laboratory for the analysis of indoor air
samples in the Midwest. Her input was increasingly sought in the analysis of
"sick buildings," and she served as a consultant to NASA, EPA, and several
state departments of public health. Especially notable contributions were
made in the area of aircraft cabin air quality and as coordinator of a national
bioaerosal sampling network that continues to grow.
Dr. Burge's career epitomizes the value of interdisciplinary research,
exemplifying both the benefits and the best traditions of the research
university.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Harriet A.
Burge associate research scientist emerita.
Sylvie J. Carduner, lecturer III in French and director of the French
Language Program in the Residential College, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1995.
Sylvie Carduner received her B.A. degrees in Latin, Greek, English
(1947), and Philosophie Lettres (1948) and attended the school for the
Professorat de Frangais a 1'Etranger at the Sorbonne (1949-52).  She
received her A.M. degree in education from the University of Michigan in
1971 and joined the faculty that year as a lecturer in French.
For 21 years, Ms. Carduner served as head of the Residential College's
French Program. Under her expert guidance, students enjoyed a vigorous
and rewarding education in French, while teaching assistants and lecturers
profited from her expertise in teaching. Ms. Carduner reorganized the
foreign language proficiency programs; developed criteria for evaluation of
language skills; designed an accelerated review course; organized innovative
upper-level seminars; created a program known as FLAIR which enabled
students to earn additional credit by reading texts in other programs in the


71




September Meeting, 1995


original language; and developed the course, "Advanced Proficiency in
French," for students who participate in the Junior Year Abroad in France
Program.
She is the co-author of several language textbooks, workbooks, language
readers, and articles on second language learning. She has been a member of
the American Association of Teachers of French, the Alliance Fran~aise, and
the American Council on Teaching Foreign Languages. In 1984, the University awarded her the Matthews Underclass Teaching Award. Her contributions to education were also recognized by the French government in 1992,
when it awarded her the rank of Chevalier in the Ordre des Palmes
Academiques.
Over the course of two decades, Ms. Carduner's students have been
consistent in their enthusiastic commendation of her excellence as a teacher.
She is extremely well-organized and is an excellent lecturer, who knows her
subject thoroughly and communicates it effectively. With her wonderful
sense of humor, and her warm, encouraging, and understanding manner, she
personifies the Residential College spirit.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher for her dedicated
service by naming Sylvie J. Carduner lecturer emerita in French.
Robert A. Green, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from
active faculty status on August 31, 1995.
Dr. Green earned his B.S. and M.D. degrees from the University of
Illinois College of Medicine in 1946 and 1948, respectively. He completed an
internship at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City in 1949 and a residency
at the Bronx VA Hospital in 1951. After serving in the U.S. Public Health
Service from 1952-54, Dr. Green returned to the Bronx VA Hospital as assistant chief of the pulmonary diseases service from 1954-58. In 1958, he joined
University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in the Department of Internal Medicine. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate
professor in 1963, and professor in 1970. Dr. Green also served as chief of
the pulmonary diseases section at the Ann Arbor VA Medical Center from
1958-72 and as assistant chief of the medical service there from 1960-65. He
was assistant dean of the Medical School from 1967-68, associate dean for
student affairs from 1968-74, and associate dean from 1974-77. He was a
member of the Senate Assembly and the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs, which he chaired in 1985-86.
Dr. Green has received numerous awards for his teaching contributions,
including the Senior Award from the 1963 Class of Medical Students, the H.
Marvin Pollard Award for outstanding teacher of residents in 1966, rating
among the top 10 attending faculty in internal medicine in 1984-85 and,
more recently, the Galens Medical Society's Silver Shovel Award in 1992 and
the Kaiser Permanente Award for Excellence in Teaching Clinical Sciences in
1992. In 1995, he was awarded special recognition for contributions to the
medical student teaching program. Dr. Green has also lectured on pulmonary diseases at numerous institutions, has chaired the Michigan Advisory
Committee for the Elimination of Tuberculosis since 1992, and has also been


72




September Meeting, 1995


an active member in the American Lung Association of Michigan, serving as
president from 1990-92.
Dr. Green's most recent interest is in the field of geriatric medicine. He
passed the initial certifying examination in this specialty in 1988 and, in
1992, he formally joined the Division of Geriatric Medicine. In this new role,
he has actively participated in the clinical care and teaching activities for
older adults in the long-term care setting at the Ann Arbor VA Medical
Center.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Robert A. Green professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Dorothy J. Himmelberger, associate librarian at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active status on June 30, 1995, after a productive career as a reference librarian.
Ms. Himmelberger received her A.B. degree in English in 1970 and her
M.L.S. degree in 1976, both from the University of Michigan. She joined the
staff of the University of Michigan-Flint Library in August 1977, serving as
reference librarian for 18 years.
In addition to her faithful and important work at the reference desk
assisting students and faculty in their use of the resources of the University
of Michigan library system, Ms. Himmelberger served as liaison with a
variety of academic departments, including art, music, philosophy and education. She was responsible for book selection in those disciplines, along with
religion, dance, and children's literature (which do not have formal academic
departments on the UM-Flint campus). Ms. Himmelberger was also responsible for compiling and scheduling library displays, including the library's
annual holiday display of new and classical children's books.
Among her special achievements, Ms. Himmelberger was instrumental
in the appointment of UM-Flint as one of the select sites for the Foundation
Center's "Foundation Center Cooperating Collection." She subsequently
served as supervisor of the collection. The Foundation Center Collection,
unique in the Flint area, serves as an up-to-date resource for vital information on grants and other funding sources. The collection is heavily used not
only by UM-Flint patrons but also is regularly consulted by a wide variety of
individuals and organizations in the greater Flint community.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian for her dedicated
service to the students, faculty and friends of the University of MichiganFlint, by naming Dorothy J. Himmelberger associate librarian emerita.
Nicholas P. White, professor of philosophy in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1995.
Professor White received his A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. degrees from
Harvard University in 1963, 1965, and 1970, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan Department of Philosophy as an assistant professor
in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor in 1975 and professor in
1981. He has also been adjunct professor in the Department of Classical
Studies since 1987.


73




September Meeting, 1995


Professor White has contributed two books, Plato on Knowledge and
Reality (Hackett, 1976) and A Companion to Plato's Republic (Hackett,
1979), and twenty-five articles in ancient Greek philosophy. His Modern
Morality and Greek Ethics is in preparation. He has also published a translation of Epictetus' Handbook and has a forthcoming translation of Plato's
Sophist.   Professor White's wide-ranging interests in contemporary
metaphysics, philosophy of mathematics, philosophy of language, and ethics
have infused his research and teaching over the years. He has held American
Council of Learned Societies, Guggenheim, and National Endowment for the
Humanities fellowships, as well as a fellowship at the Center for Hellenic
Studies.
A world leader in the field of classical philosophy, Professor White was
president of the Society for Ancient Greek Philosophy from 1986-87. He has
served as consultant to the dean at the Georgetown University Law Center
and as a member of the Advisory Committee, American Academy of Judicial
Education, National Endowment for the Humanities Project on Jurisprudence. In addition to his service to the University's College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the Senate Assembly, Professor White served as
associate chair, placement director, and chair of the Committee on Graduate
Studies in the Department of Philosophy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated
service by naming Nicholas P. White professor emeritus of philosophy.
Memorial Statements. Two memorial statements were submitted to
the Regents:
Marilyn Sibley Fries, associate professor of Germanic languages and
literatures and women's studies, passed away on August 1, 1995, after a long
struggle against cancer. She was only 49 years old.
Born in Honolulu, Professor Fries was raised in the small college town
of Alfred, New York, where her father taught philosophy and her mother
taught English. While in high school and following her undergraduate career
at Bennington College, she studied for a year in Berlin, a city she came to
love, and which later became the focus of her scholarly work. Her doctorate
was obtained at Cornell, where she chose to write with an unknown beginning assistant professor named Sander Gilman -- currently president of the
Modern Language Association.
After ten years as an assistant professor at Yale, Professor Fries came to
the University of Michigan in 1985 and was eventually given tenure. By the
time of her death, she had emerged as an internationally-recognized expert
on twentieth-century German literature and culture, specializing in the work
of Christa Wolf. The symposium on German reunification she organized and
hosted in Ann Arbor in October 1990 was widely regarded to have been the
best scholarly assessment of that watershed event. In recent years, her
interest had begun to expand further in the direction of literacy theory and
German-Jewish writers such as Walter Benjamin.
Professor Fries was a devoted and much-beloved teacher and mentor,
especially to the many younger women who were drawn to her. For two
years, she served as special assistant to the dean for international affairs, in


74




September Meeting, 1995


which capacity she undertook a number of important initiatives, such as the
new LAC (Languages Across the Curriculum) program.
We join her husband Brant and two daughters, Kyra and Lorin, in
mourning the loss of our dear colleague. She had a fine mind, a warm heart,
and many friends who will miss her terribly.
Miranda Hsu-Yung (nee Lee) Pao, professor of information and
library studies, died of glioma on August 10, 1995, following an extended
period of illness under the loving care of her husband, Richard.
Professor Pao was born on February 14, 1936, in Shanghai, China, into
a distinguished Cantonese family. She came to the U.S. in 1956 and earned
bachelor's and master's degrees in piano performance and music literature
from the Julliard School in New York City. In addition to pursuing a career
in music, she earned master's and doctoral degrees in library and information science from Case Western Reserve University, where she began her
academic career in 1972. She joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Information and Library Studies in 1986.
Professor Pao's steady rise to international stature as a distinguished
scholar in information and library studies resulted from the excellence of her
teaching and research in bibliometrics, information retrieval, and evaluation
of information systems. She received numerous awards, including the
National Library of Medicine Medical Informatics Fellowship (1994), the
School of Information and Library Studies Excellence in Research Award
(1994), and the Lazerow Lecturer Award from Texas Women's University
(1993). She was also honored as the only scholar in the field of information
and library studies to receive the National Library of Medicine Research
Career Development Award (1983-1988).
Professor Pao made significant contributions to a variety of information
retrieval and dissemination problems in medicine, including use of medical
retrieval systems by health sciences practitioners; design, implementation
and evaluation of state-of-the-art medical information retrieval systems; and
bibliometric applications in biomedical literature. She authored a widelyused textbook on information retrieval and also wrote numerous journal
articles, book chapters, and conference papers. Miranda Pao was a superb
mentor to all and a guiding light to her doctoral students, showing them how
to teach, how to write, and most importantly, how to be generous with time
and service. Her warm personality, wit, and generosity touched many
people. A thoughtful and meticulous person, she showed genuine concern
and helpfulness for others.
Miranda Pao is survived by Richard Hsien-Feng Pao, her husband of 34
years, as well as two sisters, three brothers, and several nephews and nieces.
She left an enduring mark on her students and colleagues, both through her
professional accomplishments and her quiet mentoring and dedication. As
we celebrate the life of this distinguished scholar and teacher, our condolences go to her husband Richard Pao, as well as her brothers, sisters, nieces,
and nephews.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.


75




September Meeting, 1995


Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the
consent agenda.
The University's Investments at June 30, 1995
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a set of seven "snapshot
reports" describing the status of the University's $2.4 billion in investment
portfolios as of June 30, 1995. University Treasurer Norman Herbert
reviewed the reports, which include the University Endowment Fund, the
Business School Growth Fund, the Donor Pooled Income Fund, the charitable remainder trusts, the University Investment Pool, the Veritas Insurance
Corporation, and the Long-Term Portfolio and responded to questions and
comments from the Regents about the portfolios and the investment
objectives.
Mr. Herbert emphasized that the University continues to make a
concerted effort to invest a significant portion of the Long Term Portfolio in
alternative investments, as it is believed these investments will add value in
the long run and outperform the identified benchmarks.
The real value added in the University Endowment Fund was 3.9
percent over the level of inflation plus distribution during the past year. Mr.
Herbert also reviewed the performance of the other funds in the investment
portfolio, noting that the charitable remainder trusts and Donor Pooled
Income Fund returned 21.3 percent and 13.7 percent, respectively, and the
University Investment Pool and Veritas returned 7.9 percent and 9.2
percent, respectively.
1995-96 Budgets
Executive Vice President Womack commented that the University's
Budget Book for 1995-96 had been distributed with the agendas.
Business School Growth Fund
At the request of Regent Deitch, Executive Vice President Womack
reviewed the history of the Business School Growth Fund. Then Regent
Deitch moved the following:
1.  That the terms of service for Business School Growth Fund board members
be revised to allow service for three consecutive three-year terms.
2.  That the following seven members of the Growth Fund Board of Trustees
each be reappointed to three-year terms expiring August 31, 1997: Louis
Allen, Gary Baker, Mary Campbell, Cleveland Christophe, Dohn Kalmbach,
Joel Tauber, and Bruce Zenkel. The appointments of two other members,
Norman G. Herbert and B. Joseph White, will be automatically renewed as
ex officio members, according to the Terms of the fund.
3.  The appointment of Robert M. Brown, BSE '63, to the Board for a threeyear term (September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998).
4.  The reappointment of Dixon Doll as alumni investment manager for a
three-year term for the period September 1, 1995-August 31, 1998.


76




September Meeting, 1995


5.  The retroactive reappointment of Lawrence Goldstein as alumni investment
manager for a three-year term for the period September 1, 1994- August 31,
1997.
6.  The retroactive reappointment of Harold Kellman as alumni investment
manager for a three-year term for the period September 1, 1993- August
31, 1996.
Regent Homing seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Margaret Bell Pool Addition
Mr. Doug Hannah, university architect, gave a presentation illustrating
the proposed design for a project for construction of an addition to the
Margaret Bell Pool Building. Following the presentation, Regent Deitch
moved approval of the project and preliminary design and authorization for
completion of the design, soliciting bids, and awarding a construction
contract, providing the contract value is within the approved budget. Regent
Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project Phase II Addition
Mr. Hanna gave a presentation describing proposed plans for a two-story
addition to the Engineering portion of the General Campus Renovation
Project Phase II, including a site map, detailed plans for each floor, and a
rendering of the exterior. On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent
Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the design and budget for the
General Campus Renovation Project Phase II Addition and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract providing
the project is within the budget.
Tennis Center
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that a contract
for construction of the Tennis Center building had been awarded to the low
bidder, Freeman-Darling Construction Company, and a contract for the site
work had been awarded to the low bidder, B&V Construction.
Financing for the University of Michigan Tennis Center
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved adoption of the resolution authorizing the
executive vice president and chief financial officer to:
1.  together with the Underwriter, develop the terms and legal documentation
for the Bonds, and to prepare, circulate and execute preliminary and final
official statements describing the Bonds, the University and its affairs; and
2.  apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service their ratings on the
Bonds; and
3.  obtain a final proposal for the Bonds, including price and initial interest
rate, negotiate, execute and deliver the Bond Purchase and Remarketing
Agreements to the Underwriter and Remarketing Agent to be selected, and
prepare related documentation setting forth the terms of the Bonds and the


77




September Meeting, 1995


sale and remarketing thereof, all within the limitations of the following
Resolution.
The text of the resolution is in Appendix A, page 87.
Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1995
Executive Vice President Womack said that the purpose of this proposal
is to arrange for a loan of $1.2 million to the Alumni Association through the
issuance of debt which the Alumni Association would be obligated to repay
over a period of ten years. Regent Baker noted that this was an unusual
request and asked for assurance that the Alumni Association would be able
to repay the loan, and with what funds. He noted that there had not been an
appraisal of the property or an environmental impact evaluation.
Executive Vice President Womack responded that he would not have
made the recommendation if he did not believe that the Alumni Association
had the capacity to retire the debt. He also pointed out that the Association's property at Camp Michigania, which would be used to secure the debt,
is clearly worth more than the amount being financed. It is difficult to argue
that the Alumni Association is not an integral part of the University, and
this means of assisting them is, in his judgment, entirely appropriate.
Regent Baker said his concerns were satisfied and he supported the
recommendation. Regents Deitch observed that the real estate occupied by
Camp Michigania is extremely valuable and that supporting the Alumni
Association is entirely appropriate. Regent Deitch then moved, Regent
Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved adoption of the
resolution, authorizing the executive vice president and chief financial officer
to:
1.  together with the Underwriter develop the terms and legal documentation
for the Bonds, and to prepare, circulate and execute preliminary and final
official statements describing the Bonds, the University and its affairs; and
2.  apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's
Corporation their ratings on the Bonds; and
3.  obtain a fmal proposal for the Bonds, including price and initial interest
rate, negotiate, execute and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement to the
Underwriter and Remarketing Agent to be selected, and prepare related
documentation setting forth the terms of the Bonds and the sale and delivery thereof, and to execute and deliver the Bonds; and
4.  arrange for a loan of $1,200,000 to the Alumni Association, hold a Tax
Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act hearing (TEFRA) and negotiate a
secured loan agreement, all within the limitations of the following
Resolution.
The text of the resolution is in Appendix B, page 133.


78




September Meeting, 1995


University of Michigan Medical Center East Campus Primary Care
Facility Project
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that a construction contract for the structural steel package for the Primary Care Facility
has been awarded to the lowest responsive bidder, Art Iron, Inc., of Toledo,
Ohio, and a construction contract for the exterior building enclosure package
has been awarded to the lowest responsive bidder, Clark Construction Co. of
Lansing, Michigan.
University of Michigan Medical Center East Campus Primary Care
Facility Project (increase in project scope)
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. John Forsyth, executive
director of University of Michigan Hospitals, to review a request to increase
the scope of the Primary Care Facility Project to include a mammography
unit and an additional radiology imaging room. Mr. Forsyth explained that
the original plans for the East Campus called for a women's clinic to be the
next major facility placed there, so for that reason, the Primary Care Facility
purposely did not include a mammography unit. In light of the general
uncertainty in the health care markets, it has now been decided to make
improvements in Women's Hospital instead and to delay decisions with
regard to construction of a women's clinic on the East Campus. However,
this decision means that the Primary Care Facility would not have a
mammography function. Therefore, it is proposed to create a mammography
facility and to complete the creation of a fully functioning radiology referral
center by adding an additional radiology imaging room within the Primary
Care Facility.
Regent Baker moved approval of increasing the scope of the Primary
Care Facility project to include a mammography component and an
additional radiology room, as well as approval of the site and design for the
mammography component and approval to proceed with bids and award of
the construction contract for the mammography component along with the
Primary Care Facility. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Regent Baker announced that he had to leave the meeting, but asked
that when the issue of moving the Burnham house to the entrance to the
Arboretum is addressed, that other options mentioned in the previous day's
public comments session be considered. He then left the meeting (10:55
a.m.).
University of Michigan Medical Center Demolition of Terrace
Apartments and Construction of Parking Lot
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved proceeding with a project to demolish the
Terrace Apartment Buildings and construct a 308-space parking lot on the
site, as described in the Regents Communication.


79




September Meeting, 1995


University of Michigan Medical Center Women's Hospital Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a project and budget for renovation of
Women's Hospital to provide office functions as described in the Regents
Communication, the appointment of Giffels Hoyem Basso as architect, and
proceeding with the project as described.
University of Michigan Medical Center Med Tnn Building Renovation Project
Regent Power moved approval of a project and budget for renovation of
the Med Inn Building to allow relocation of most of the Cancer Center
administration to that building, renovation of the Hospitals' executive offices
on Level 2 of the Med Inn Building, removal of trailers adjacent to the
Simpson Institute, submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health, and proceeding with the project as
described in the Regents Communication. Regent McFee seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously. Regent Power observed that the
Med Inn facility has been enormously valuable for families of Hospitals'
patients.
Regent Newman left the meeting at this point, at 11:15 a.m.
Nichols Arboretum Project
Executive Vice President Womack called on University Planner Fred
Mayer to present this request for relocation of the Burnham House from 940
Maiden Lane to the Geddes Road entrance to the Arboretum to house an
Urban Environmental Education Center.
Mr. Mayer noted that the School of Natural Resources and Environment
has long believed that the educational value of the Arboretum would be
enhanced if there were an interpretive center to provide space for interpretive talks, on-site classroom space, and other support facilities. To that end,
Professor Harrison Morton, the director of the Arboretum, began a fundraising campaign which has so far raised about $200,000. Last year, a class in
the College of Architecture and Urban Planning produced a design for such a
facility, which would cost over $1 million to construct.
When the University purchased the site that contains the Burnham
House, which was built in 1839, local historic preservation groups had urged
the University to try to save it. At that point, Professor Morton suggested
that consideration be given to moving the house to the Arboretum for use as
an interpretive center. Mr. Mayer reviewed the advantages and disadvantages of the three sites that had been considered for placement of the house,
and the most desirable was determined to be at the Geddes Road entrance to
the Arboretum.


80




September Meeting, 1995


Relocating the historic house would serve the needs of the School of
Natural Resources and Environment at a significantly lower cost than building a new building. Mr. Mayer suggested that as a next step the University
should further investigate the details of moving the house, work with architects and landscape architects to determine the precise location for the building, and meet with the residents of the surrounding areas to address their
concerns about the proposal to move the house to that location. After this
consultation has been completed, a specific recommendation would be made
to the Regents.
Regent Power stated that he believes the Regents support the notion of
an interpretive center and of investigating the feasibility of reusing the
historic Burnham house for this purpose. However, he is not persuaded that
the proposed site is appropriate, and he believes it is important for the
University to consult with the people in the community who have strong
feelings about the issue.
Regent McGowan suggested that the discussion be tabled until such
time as an action motion can be proposed that addresses the concerns that
have been expressed. Regent McFee expressed her support for this idea.
President Duderstadt observed that there are several competing goals being
addressed by this proposal: preserving a historic house, providing an interpretive center for the Arboretum, and finding the most appropriate site for
such a center, and said that the current proposal might not be the best
method for addressing all of the issues. He expressed concerns about the
proposed site. He also suggested that the original program statement for the
center be reviewed to see whether the goals might be met by designing a
more cost-effective building than the one originally proposed, and then by
finding another site and use for the Burnham house.
Executive Vice President Womack then called on Professor Morton, who
noted that the Arboretum is a designed site, not a natural site, with a
mission of furthering the educational opportunities of University of Michigan
students, Ann Arbor school children, and other visitors. Currently there are
many educational activities taking place at the Arboretum, including 30
University classes, a docent program, a volunteer program, and many special
programs utilized by University and community groups. These educational
and research activities, plus 90 years of use, call for a refurbishing and
remodeling of the original idea of the Arboretum. He believes the site is
appropriate, and noted that as a teaching and research facility within
walking distance from campus, there is no intention to have parking at the
site. He stated that he has always been willing to work with the community,
but with the idea that the Regents needed to be consulted first. Now that
this has occurred, the public will be fully involved. He noted that there is
some urgency created by the limited window of time available to move the
Burnham house and the necessity in fundraising to have an identifiable facility to focus on.
Regent Deitch noted that he was particularly impressed by some of the
comments made at the Public Comments session, and that the linkage


81




September Meeting, 1995


between the community and the University requires reciprocity and respect.
Although he has always been supportive of the growth and development of
the University, the fact that this site is in the middle of a residential area
means that the concerns of the residents have to be paramount. He also
noted that the use of this historic building for this purpose might not be
appropriate, and suggested that perhaps a more modest proposal for a new
building might be more desirable.
Provost Machen emphasized that the main purpose for this project is for
education and research; it is not for recreation.
The original action request was then tabled for consideration at a later
meeting.
Contract or Purchase Order with Angelini and Associates,
Architects
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, all six
Regents present unanimously approved entering into a contract or purchase
order with Angelini and Associates, Architects. Because the owner of the
firm, Bradford L. Angelini, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Angelini and
Associates, Architects, owned by Bradford L. Angelini, a University
employee.
2.   The assignment is to develop a prototype living-learning design concept in
West Quadrangle's Lloyd and Winchell Houses. Duration will be through
December 31, 1996. The terms of the' contract or purchase order with
Angelini and Associates, Architects will be based on a time (pre-determined
hourly rates) and material basis, not to exceed $30,000. University personnel will be involved in coordinating the work, supplying support services and
will represent the best interests of the University.
3.   The pecuniary interest to Professor Angelini is the amount paid for the
services as stated above.
Purchasing Contract with Rising Edge Corporation
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, all six
Regents present unanimously approved entering into a purchasing contract
with Rising Edge Corporation. Because a University employee, Parag Mody,
is also an investor in and corporate officer of Rising Edge Corporation, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Rising Edge
Corporation.
2.   The terms of the contract to support research in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) include the purchase of
CYCLOPS 1.5 circuit boards from Rising Edge Corporation as follows:


82




September Meeting, 1995


Design at no cost plus:
Layout                          $ 4,500
Fabrication of 12 circuit boards  $ 3,255
Parts for 8 boards              $ 8,800
Assembly & testing of 8 boards  $ 3,200
TOTAL                        $19,725
Delivery will be made to the University of Michigan EECS by October 25,
1995.
3.  Mr. Mody's pecuniary interest arises from his financial interest and corporate positions of secretary and treasurer of Rising Edge Corporation.
Purchasing Contract with Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, all six
Regents present unanimously approved entering into a purchasing contract
with Rebus Planning Associates, Inc. Because the owner of Rebus Planning
Associates, Inc., Samuel J. Meisels, is also a University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
2.   The terms of the contract to support three University of Michigan research
grants include the purchase of the following from Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.:
1,265 Teacher Reference Packs          $ 89,852
9 Staff Developers Workshops           $   455
8 Implementers Workshops               $ 3,160
30 Reference Sets                      $ 3,160
75 Work Sampling Systems               $   750
10 Participants/Training               $   400
TOTAL                           $102,367
The duration will be until December 31, 1995.
3.   Dr. Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of Rebus
Planning Associates, Inc.
License Agreement with Ann Arbor Biomedical
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Deitch, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a license agreement between the
University of Michigan and Ann Arbor Biomedical. Because a founder of and
senior partner in Ann Arbor Biomedical, Janice Jenkins, is also a University
of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Ann Arbor
Biomedical.
2.   Contract terms include:
a) A non-exclusive, nontransferable right to use the program internally only.


83




September Meeting, 1995


b) The University has the right to license the program to other parties and
to renegotiate the license with Ann Arbor Biomedical if it decides it
wants to distribute the program.
c) The University will retain ownership of the program and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
d) No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Professor Jenkin's pecuniary interest arises from her ownership interest in
Ann Arbor Biomedical. She has waived any personal participation in the
sharing of royalties received by the University from the company.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Orbital
Sciences Corporation
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved an agreement with Orbital Sciences
Corporation (OSC) under which OSC would sponsor a research project at the
University of Michigan. Because Dr. Lennard A. Fisk is both a University
employee and a member of the OSC board of directors, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Orbital
Sciences Corporation.
2.   The terms of the agreement are consistent with University policy. The
research project is to be conducted over a two-month period at a total fixed
cost of $100,000. Dr. Lennard A. Fisk will participate in the project as a
coprincipal investigator without effort.
3.   Dr. Fisk's pecuniary interest arises from his status as a member of the
board of directors of OSC. He received 2,000 shares of OSC stock at 85
percent of market value in 1994 and 3,000 shares at market values in 1995.
In addition, Dr. Fisk receives an annual retainer of $7,500 and $1,000 per
meeting from OSC. His term as an OSC director ends no later than April
1999.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Public Data
Queries, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, all six
Regents present unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and Public Data Queries, Inc. (PDQ) for the University of
Michigan to participate as a subcontractor of PDQ in an award it has
received from the National Institutes of Health. This agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute because the following three
individuals are both University employees and are associated with PDQ in
the following ways: Albert F. Anderson is chief executive officer; Paul H.
Anderson is vice president for technology and a 40 percent shareholder; and
William Frey is vice president for educational development. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Public Data
Queries, Inc. (PDQ).


84




September Meeting, 1995


2.  The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The amount of
the subcontract from PDQ is $30,000 and the period of performance is one
year. None of the University employees who are officers and/or shareholders in PDQ will play any role in the University's performance of this
agreement.
3.  Paul H. Anderson and Albert F. Anderson are each University employees
and officers of and shareholders in PDQ and will receive consulting compensation through PDQ for this project. William Frey is a University employee
and an officer of PDQ and will also receive consulting compensation through
PDQ for this project.
Regent McFee announced that she had to leave the meeting at this
point, 11:30 a.m.
Utility Tunnel Expansion Joint Replacement
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for expansion joint replacement in a
section of a utility tunnel between Stockwell Residence Hall and the Ruthven
Museum.
Medical Science I - A Wing Infrastructure and Laboratory Remodeling
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the
contract for the Medical Science I - A Wing Infrastructure and Laboratory
Remodeling project had been awarded to the low bidder, J.C. Beal Construction, Inc.
Membership in M-Care Board of Directors
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to the M-Care bylaws changing the makeup
of the board of directors, as specified in the Regents Communication.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Sec. 11.035 (UM-Dearborn School of
Management Executive Committee)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in Regents' Bylaw Sec. 11.035 to change the
number of faculty members on the UM-Dearborn School of Management
Executive Committee from three to five. The revised bylaw is as follows:
Sec. 11.035: The University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management
Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and five faculty members
of Senate rank to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the
chancellor and the president. The appointed members shall not be eligible for
reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The terms shall be for three
years and shall be so adjusted that one vacancy shall occur each year. The dean
shall chair the committee.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Deitch, and on the
recommendation of the UM Hospitals executive board, the Regents


85




September Meeting, 1995


unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical staff
membership.
939 Wall Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan
Regent Power moved, Regent Horning seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved acquisition of the property at 939 Wall Street at a price of
$105,000, subject to satisfactory completion of environmental due diligence.
Naming of the New Field Hockey Field
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved naming the new field hockey field in honor of
Phyllis M. Ocker.
Establishment of the Institute for Research on Women and Gender
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved establishment of the Institute for Research
on Women and Gender.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:45
a.m. The next meeting will be held on October 19 and 20, 1995. Regents'
expenses recorded in the month of August 1995 totaled $1,794.50.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


86




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1995


APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BONDS IN THE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $5,000,000 TO FINANCE THE COST OF
CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPPING OF A TENNIS CENTER FACILITY
AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS
AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve
the needs of students attending The University of Michigan (the "University"), the Regents
of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") has authorized the construction and equipping
of a tennis center facility (hereinafter referred to as the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties and in order to properly serve
the interests of students attending the University, the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1995
(hereinafter defined as the "Bonds") in the original principal amount of not to exceed Five
Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for the purpose of paying part of the cost of constructing and
equipping the Project, and paying the expenses incidental to the issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project will serve proper and appropriate public
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the
provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has the full
power under its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and
direction of expenditures from the University funds, to construct the Project, to pay the cost
of the construction and equipping of the Project by issuance of the Bonds, to pledge the
Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues (hereinafter defined) for payment of the Bonds and to
adopt this Resolution and enter into the covenants contained herein; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued, under a resolution adopted May 7, 1993,
(the "Prior Resolution") its $3,170,000 Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 1993 (the "Prior Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate
Vice President for Finance of the Issuer shall certify prior to delivery of the Bonds that the
requirements under the Prior Resolution for issuing the Bonds on a parity basis with the
Prior Bonds have been met:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan, as follows:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following
terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues" means all revenues received by the Issuer
from spectator admissions to all regularly scheduled Intercollegiate athletic events, and
currently (as of September 1, 1995) accounted for as "Spectator Admissions": such revenues
include receipts from home football games (less opponents' share); receipts from awaj
football games; student and staff season ticket sales receipts for all sports for which such
tickets are sold; admission receipts and away game guarantees or other payments from all
other sports (less guarantees or other payments to opponents); and receipts from championship events (less guarantees or other payments to opponents); but excludes receipts from
football bowl games, the National Invitational Tournament and National Collegiate Athletic


87




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Association tournament in basketball, and all other items not currently (as of September 1,
1995) accounted for as "Spectator Admissions".
"Adjusted Rate" means the Daily Rate, the Weekly Rate, the Quarterly Rate or the
Long Term Rate, as the case may be, determined for each Interest Period for the Bonds, as
provided in Section 203(a) hereof.
"Annual Debt Service" means for any Fiscal Year the sum of (i) an amount equal to
the amount of scheduled principal (at maturity or through mandatory redemption requirements) and interest to become due in that Fiscal Year on the then outstanding Bonds and
any then outstanding Parity Obligations (excluding the principal of Balloon Indebtedness or
amounts which may become owing at the option of the holder of such Bonds), plus (ii) an
amount equal to the principal amount of then outstanding Balloon Indebtedness excluded
from (i) divided by the number of years to maturity from the date of original issuance of the
Balloon Indebtedness. Interest on Variable Rate Bonds shall be calculated at any date of
calculation as an amount equal to the greater of (a) the average daily interest rate during
the then preceding twelve month period or (b) the rate in effect on the date of calculation.
For purposes of applying the calculation set forth in (a) above, if the Variable Rate Bonds
have not been outstanding for at least twelve months on the date of such calculation, then
the average daily interest rate during the then preceding twelve month period shall be based
on the written certificate of an in ependent financial advisor or independent investment
banker, as to the determination of the average interest rate the Variable Rate Bonds would
have borne for such twelve month period had they been outstanding. Interest which is
payable from the proceeds of Bonds or Parity Obligations or other funds set aside for such
purpose on or before the date of delivery of the Bonds or Parity Obligation, and debt service
scheduled to be paid from any reserves set aside for the Bonds or any Parity Obligations,
shall be excluded in determining the Annual Debt Service requirement.
"Authorized Officer" means either of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance, of the University or their successors.
"Balloon Indebtedness" means any issue of the Bonds or Parity Obligations, the
debt service requirements on which in any consecutive 12 month period, including debt
service which can become due by reason of a requirement that the indebtedness be redeemed
or purchased or repurchased by or on behalf of the Issuer from the holder thereof prior to
the stated maturity (other than at the option of the holder thereof), exceeds the average
annual debt service requirements thereon by 30% or more.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the not to exceed $5,000,000 aggregate principal amount
of Regents of the University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic
Revenue Bonds, Series 1995, to be issued under the Resolution.
"Bond FTund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue
Bonds, Series 1995 Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bond Purchase Agreement" means the Bond Purchase Agreement, between the
Issuer and the Underwriter, pursuant to which the Bonds shall be sold by the Issuer to the
Underwriter.
"Bond Purchase Fund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic
Revenue Bonds Series 1995 Bond Purchase Fund established pursuant to Section 404 hereof.
'Bondholder" or "Holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered owner of any Bond.
"Business Day" means any weekday upon which the principal offices of the
Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing Agent are not required or authorized by law or
executive order to be closed and on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is not closed.
"Credit Support Instrument" means any irrevocable letter of credit, line of credit,
insurance policy, ond purchase agreement guaranty or surety bond providing for the
payment of, or guaranteeing the payment of, principal and interest on, or the purchase price
of, the Bonds or any Parity Obligations when due.
"'Daily Rate" means an interest rate on the Bonds determined pursuant to Section
203(a)(1) hereof.


88




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


"Determination Date" means (1) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at a
Daily Rate, each Business Day, or, for the initial commencement of a period during which
Bonds bear interest at a Daily Rate, and such commencement date is not a Business Day the
Business Day next following such commencement date, (2) with respect to Bonds which bear
interest at a Weekly Rate, the Tuesday of each week (or if such Tuesday is not a Business
Day, the next succeeding Business Day) or for the initial commencement of a period during
which Bonds will bear interest at a Weekly Rate the last Business Day preceding such
commencement date, (3) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at a Quarterly Rate, the
Business Day immediately prior to the commencement of the first Interest Period during
which the Bonds bear interest at the Quarterly Rate, and thereafter, except as otherwise set
forth in Section 203(e)(4) hereof, the Business Day immediately prior to the fourth Interest
Payment Date following the next preceding Determination Date for Bonds bearing interest
at the Quarterly Rate, and (4) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at a Long Term
Rate, the Business Day immediately prior to the commencement of the first Interest Period
during which the Bonds bear interest at the Long Term Rate, and thereafter, except as
otherwise set forth in Section 203(e)(4) hereof, the last Business Day of the then-current
Long Term Rate Period for those Bonds.
"Event of Default" means any of the events specified in Article XIII hereof.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1
and ending on June 30.
"Fixed Rate" means the interest rate or rates on the Bonds determined in accordance
with Section 203(e) hereof.
"Fixed Rate Bonds" means the Prior Bonds, the Bonds on and after the Fixed Rate
Conversion Date and any Parity Obligations bearing interest at a fixed rate or rates of
interest.
"Fixed Rate Conversion Date" means the Business Day designated b the Issuer
and specified in a notice delivered as provided herein, upon which the Adjusted Rate feature
on the Bonds is terminated and the Bonds begin to bear interest at the Fixed Rate as
provided in Section 203(e) hereof.
"Fixed Rate Period" means the period in which interest on the Bonds accrues at a
Fixed Rate.
"Government Obligations" means (1) direct obligations of the United States of
America (including obligations issued or held in bookentry form on the books of the Department of Treasury of the United States of America and including certificates or other instruments evidencing ownership interests in such direct obligations of the United States of
America such as "CATS", "TIGRS" Treasury Receipts an& Stripped Treasury Coupons) or
obligations the timely payment of which are unconditionally and fully guaranteed by the full
faith and credit of the UJnited States of America and (2) obligations the interest on which is
exempt from federal income taxation under the Code and the timely payment of the principal of and interest on which is fully provided for by the deposit in trust or escrow of cash or
obligations described in clause (1) above.
"Highest Lawful Rate" means the lesser of (i) twenty-five percent (25%) per annum
or (ii) the maximum amount or rate of interest permitted by applicable law, as from time to
time in effect, lawfully to be charged or received or contracted to be paid in respect of the
Bonds.
"Holder", "Bondholder" or "Owner", whenever used herein with respect to a
Bond, means the person in whose name such Bond is registered.
"Implementation Date" means (i) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at the
Daily Rate, the Determination Date, (ii) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at the
Weely Rate, the Wednesday of each week in which the Tuesday of such week is a Business
Day, whether or not such Wednesday is a Business Day; or, if Tuesday is not a Business Day,
the Determination Date; or for the initial commencement of an Interest Period during which
Bonds will bear interest at the Weekly Rate the day succeeding the Determination Date,
(iii) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at the Quarterly Rate, except as otherwise set
forth in Section 203(e)(4) hereof, the first Business Day of the month following the Determination Date, and (iv) with respect to Bonds which bear interest at a Long Term Rate, except


89




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


as otherwise set forth in Section 203(e)(4) hereof, the first day of the month following the
Determination Date.
"Interest Payment Date" means (i) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily
Rate or a Weekly Rate in the thencurrent Interest Period the fifth Business Day of the next
month, (ii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Quarterly Rate in the then-current
Interest Period, the first Business Day of each month, (iii) with respect to Bonds bearing
interest at a Long Term Rate or Fixed Rate, each June 1 and December 1, provided, that the
first Interest Payment Date during any Long Term Rate Period or the Fixed Rate Period
shall be the first June 1 or December 1 at least 90 days after the Implementation Date or the
Fixed Rate Conversion Date, as the case may be, and (iv) the Fixed Rate Conversion Date.
"Interest Period" means (i) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily Rate or
a Weekly Rate, a calendar month or if the next succeeding Interest Period will be a Fixed
Rate Period, a Long Term Rate Period or a Quarterly Rate Period, the first day of the calendar month to the day preceding the commencement of the next succeeding Interest Period,
both inclusive; provided, however, that the initial Interest Period for the Bonds shall
commence on the Original Issue Date and end on the last day of such calendar month,
(ii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Quarterly Rate, the period commencing on an
Interest Payment Date and ending on the day immediately preceding the next Interest
Payment Date, both inclusive; provided, however, that the initial Interest Period in each
Quarterly Rate Period shall commence on the date such Quarterly Rate Period commences
and end on the day immediately preceding the first Interest Payment Date in such Quarterly
Rate Period, (iii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate, the period
commencing on an Interest Payment Date and ending on the day immediately preceding the
next Interest Payment Date, both inclusive; provided however, that the initial Interest
Period in each Long Term Rate Period shall commence on the date such Long Term Rate
Period commences and ends on the day immediately preceding the first Interest Payment
Date in such Long Term Rate Period, and (iv) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a
Fixed Rate, the period commencing on an Interest Payment Date and ending on the day
immediately preceding the next Interest Payment Date, both inclusive; provided however,
that the initial Interest Period in each Fixed Rate Period shall commence on the date such
Fixed Rate Period commences and end on the day immediately preceding the first Interest
Payment Date in such Fixed Rate Period.
"Issuer Owned Bonds" means each Bond registered in the name of the Issuer or its
nominee as a result of the purchase of such Bonds by the Issuer upon tender thereof in
accordance with Article III hereof.
'Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received,
earned through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body
corporate having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from its funds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally used
by the Issuer to pay principal of, and interest on, the Bonds, or the Purchase Price of the
Bonds, but shall not include any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans, bonds or debt service on other obligations or other purposes to
the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of which would result in the Bonds herein
authorized being construed as a general obligation of the Issuer or as indebtedness of the
state of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Long Term Rate" means an interest rate on all or a portion of the Bonds determined pursuant to Section 203(a)(4) hereof.
"Long Term Rate Period" means a period set by the Issuer, which must be one year
or more and less than the remaining term of the Bonds, in which interest on certain specified Bonds accrues at a Long Term Rate.
"Mandatory Purchase Date" means any of the dates specified in Section 309(a)
hereof on which dates the Bonds are subject to mandatory purchase from the Owner.
"Mandatory Sinking Account Payment" means, with respect to the Bonds, the
amount required by Section 301(c) of this Indenture to be paid by the Issuer on any single
date for the retirement prior to maturity of Bonds.


90




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


"Moody's" means Moody 's Investors Service, a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the State of Delaware, its successors and assigns, and, if such corporation
is dissolved or liquidated or no longer performs the functions of a securities rating agency,
"Moody's" will be deemed to refer to any other nationally recognized securities rating agency
designated by the Issuer, by notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent.
"Notice Parties" means the Issuer, the Remarketing Agent, and the Transfer/Tender
Agent.
"Opinion of Bond Counsel" means a written opinion of nationally recognized bond
counsel (who may be counsel for the Issuer) selected by the Issuer.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel (who may be counsel for
the Issuer) selected by the Issuer.
"Original Issue Date" means the date on which the Bonds are delivered to the original purchasers thereof.
"Outstanding" means all of the Bonds which have been authenticated and delivered
by the Transfer/Tender Agent under this except:
(1) Bonds canceled by the Transfer/Tender Agent pursuant to this Resolution;
(2) Bonds which have matured or for which the duly noticed redemption
date shall have occurred and for the payment of which moneys equal to the
principal amount thereof, redemption premiums, if any, and the interest to the
date of maturity or earlier redemption, shall be held in trust for their payment by
the Transfer/Tender Agency pursuant to this Resolution;
(3) Bonds, including Undelivered Bonds, in lieu of which other Bonds have
been authenticated under this Resolution;
(4) Bonds and portions of Bonds not deemed Outstanding as specified in
Article X hereof; and
(5) Bonds paid pursuant to the last sentence of Section 207 hereof.
"Operating Costs" means all costs and expenses required to be paid for the operation
and maintenance of the Program, but shall not include payment of debt service on the
Bonds, the Outstanding Bonds, any additional Parity Obligations and any Subordinated
Obligations, depreciation or amortization.
"Parity Obligations" means the Prior Bonds and additional Parity Obligations of the
Issuer secured by a pledge of and first lien against Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, hereafter issued or incurred by the Issuer from time to time in accordance with the terms of this
Resolution.
"Program" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletics Program.
"Project" means the project referenced in the preambles hereto.
"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1995 Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Purchase Date" means (i) the Business Day designated by a Bondholder in a Tender
Notice as the date for purchase, which for any Interest Period shall be the date set forth in
Section 306, Section 307 or Section 308 hereof, as the case may be, and (ii) a Mandatory
Purchase Date on which any Bond shall be required to be purchased pursuant to Section 309
hereof, and which shall be the day on which remarketed Bonds will be registered in the name
of the purchaser in exchange for money paid for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund or the
day on which unremarketed Bonds shall be registered in the name of the Issuer or its
nominee (thereby becoming Issuer Owned Bonds).
"Purchase Price" means an amount equal to the principal amount of any Bond
tendered or deemed tendered pursuant to Sections 306, 307, 308 and 309 hereof, plus
accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the Purchase Date; provided, however, that


91




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A
(i) the interest component may be adjusted for Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate
as described in Section 309(a)(2), and (ii) in the event the Purchase Date falls after the
Record Date but prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date the interest component
of the Purchase Price shall be reduced by the amount of interest to be paid on the Interest
Payment Date to the Holder of record as of the Record Date.
"Put" means the right of a Bondholder to require, or the act of requiring, the
Transfer/Tender Agent to purchase a Bond (other than an Issuer Owned Bond) at its Owner's
option pursuant to Section 306, Section 307 or Section 308 hereof, as the case may be.
"Quarterly Rate" means an interest rate on the Bonds determined pursuant to
Section 203(a)(3) hereof.
"Quarterly Rate Period" means the period in which interest on the Bonds accrues at
a Quarterly Rate.
"Rating Category" means one of the general rating categories of Moody's or S&P
without regard to any refinement or graduation of such rating category by a numerical
modifier or otherwise.
"Record Date" means (i) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily Rate, a
Weekly Rate or a Quarterly Rate, the last Business Day prior to the next succeeding Interest
Period, and (ii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate or a Fixed Rate,
each May 15 and November 15.
"Remarketing Agent" means the initial Remarketing Agent designated by an
Authorized Officer pursuant to Section 701 hereof, or any successor Remarketing Agent
appointed pursuant to Section 702 hereof.
"Remarketing Agreement" means the Remarketing Agreement entered into
between the Issuer and the initial Remarketing Agent, or a similar agreement entered into
with any successor Remarketing Agent.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Revenue Fund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue
Bonds, Revenue Fund previously established by the Issuer and continued by Section 402 of
the Prior Resolution.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Corporation, a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of the State of New York, its successors and assigns, or, if such corporation is
dissolved or liquidated or no longer performs the functions of a securities rating agency,
"S&P" will be deemed to refer to any other nationally recognized securities rating agency
designated by the Issuer by notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent.
"Surplus Revenues" means in any Fiscal Year all Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues
for such Fiscal Year remaining after the Issuer has made the deposits required to be made in
such Fiscal Year to the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 504 hereof and after the Issuer has
paid all Operating Costs for such Fiscal Year.
"Tender Date" means the date on which a Bondholder must present the Tender
Notice in order to effect a purchase of Bonds on the Purchase Date.
"Tender Notice" means the notice of tender from a Bondholder to the
Transfer/Tender Agent pursuant to Section 306, Section 307 or Section 308 hereof, as the
case may be, in order to effect a purchase of Bonds on the Purchase Date.
"Transfer/Tender Agent', or, as the context requires "Transfer/Tender Agent" or
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer/Tender Agent appointed by the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer/Tender Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 803.
"Undelivered Bonds" means Bonds described in Section 310 of this Resolution.
"Underwriter" means the underwriter or, collectively, the group of underwriters,
designated by an Authorized Officer pursuant to Section 1401, or successors thereto.


92




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


"University" means the University of Michigan.
"Variable Rate Bonds" means the Bonds prior to the Fixed Rate Conversion Date
and any Parity Obligations bearing interest at variable or adjustable rates.
"Weekly Rate" means an interest rate on the Bonds determined pursuant to
Section 203(a) (2) hereof.
ARTICLE II
AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS, FORM OF BONDS
AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
Section 201.    Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer, in the exercise
of its powers and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control
and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII,
Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the
Bonds for thepurposes set forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order
to enable the Issuer to finance the cost of the construction and equipping of the Project. For
such purposes there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Five Million Dollars
($5,000,000), and in evidence thereof there shall be issued the Bonds of the Issuer which
shall be designated "Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series
1995", in like aggregate principal amount, all to be equally secured as hereinafter set forth.
Section 202.    Limited Obligation and Other Bond Terms.      The Bonds shall
be limited obligations of the Issuer equally and ratably and solely secured by the Adjusted
Gross Athletic Revenues and any moneys in the Bond Fund or Revenue Fund, on a parity
basis, as to Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and moneys in the Revenue Fund only, with
the Prior Bonds and any Parity Obligations hereafter issued or incurred, and the Bonds shall
not be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan or a general obligation of the Issuer.
The Bonds shall be issued in the principal amount to be determined by an Authorized
Officer in fully registered form without coupons and shall be issued in denominations of
$100 000 each or an integral multiple thereof, except that when interest on the Bonds is
payable at a Fixed Rate, such Bonds may be issued in the denomination of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall mature on the dates determined by an Authorized Officer but the final maturity shall not be later than June 1, 2001; shall be dated as of
and bear interest from the Original Issue Date or such later date to which interest on the
Bond in exchange for which the Bond is issued has been paid, payable on the Interest
Payment Dates, commencing with the first Interest Payment Sate.
Interest shall be payable on the Interest Payment Dates to the persons in whose name
the Bonds are registered at the close of business on the Record Date for the respective Interest Payment Date. Except as provided in the last paragraph of Section 204, interest shall be
paid by check mailed to each Owner of Bonds at the address shown on the registration books
maintained by the Transfer/Tender Agent provided that an Owner of at least $1,000,000 in
aggregate principal amount of Bonds ma be paid interest by wire transfer to a bank account
in the United States of America if the Owner makes a written request of the
Transfer/Tender Agent at least 10 days before a Record Date specifying the account address.
Such a request may provide that it will remain in effect for subsequent interest payments
until changed or revoked by written notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent.
The principal and premium, if any, of the Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America at the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer/Tender
Agent. Except as provided in the last paragraph of Section 204, no payment of principal shall
be made on any Bond until such Bond is surrendered to the Transfer/Tender Agent.
The Bonds shall bear interest as provided in Section 203 hereof, shall be subject to
redemption as provided in Section 301 hereof and shall be subject to mandatory purchase as
provided in Section 309 hereof.
Section 203. Interest on the Bonds.


93




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(a) Interest Rate on Bonds. Interest on the Bonds will be payable as
provided in the Bonds and in this Section. Interest on the Bonds shall initially be
payable under the interest rate determination method determined by an Authorized Officer prior to sale of the Bonds. The interest rate determination method
thereafter may be changed with respect to the Bonds, or any portion of the
Bonds, as described in subsections (c) and (e) of this Section at any time and from
time to time. From and after the occurrence of an Event of Default described in
Article XIII of this Resolution, the interest rate on the Bonds will be the rate on
the Bonds on the day before the Event of Default occurred.
(1) Daily Rate.
(A) When interest on any Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate, the
Remarketing Agent shall set a Daily Rate on each Business Day pursuant to the provisions of this Section. Each Daily Rate shall be the
minimum rate necessary (as determined by the Remarketing Agent
taking into account prevailing market conditions) for the Remarketing
Agent to sell such Bonds on the day the rate is set at their principal
amount plus accrued interest. The Daily Rate for any day that is not a
Business Day shall be the rate for the last day on which a Daily Rate
was set.
(B) If for any reason the Remarketing Agent does not set a Daily
Rate for any Bonds on any Business Day or a court holds that the rate
set for any Bonds for any day is invalid or unenforceable, the Daily
Rate for such Bonds for that day shall be set by the Remarketing
Agent at the rate equal to the Prime Commercial Paper (30 day),
Tax-Exempt rate most recently published by The Bond Buyer, or by
such other publisher as the Issuer shall designate in writing to the
Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing Agent, plus 1/8% per
annum. If The Bond Buyer, or such replacement publisher, does not
publish such a Commercial Paper rate within seven days preceding a
day on which a Daily Rate is to be set, the Daily Rate shall be set by
the Remarketing Agent at 50% of the interest rate for 30day taxable
commercial paper (prime paper placed through dealers) announced on
such date by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, converted to a
couponequivalent rate. In the event that the Remarketing Agent does
not set the Daily Rate as described in the preceding two sentences, the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall set the rate based on the information so
published upon which information the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be
entitled to conclusively rely. Upon delivery to the Issuer of an Opinion
of Bond Counsel to the effect that such action will not adversely affect
the validity of the Bonds or the exemption of interest on the Bonds
from federal income taxation under the Code and of a certificate from
the Remarketing Agent to the effect that the methods described in this
paragraph for setting the interest rate are unavailable or unrealistic in
the marketplace and the reasons therefor, then the Issuer, with the
advice of the Remarketing Agent, may designate a new method of
setting the Daily Rate for any Bonds.
(2) Weekly Rate. When interest on any Bonds is payable at a
Weekly Rate, the Remarketing Agent shall set a Weekly Rate on the Determination Date. The Weekly Rate shall be effective from and including the
Implementation Date, to and including the day preceding the next succeeding Implementation Date. Each Weekly Rate shall be the minimum rate
necessary (as determined by the Remarketing Agent taking into account
prevailing market conditions) for the Remarketing Agent to sell such Bonds
on the Determination Date at their principal amount plus accrued interest.
If for any reason the Remarketing Agent does not set a Weekly Rate
for any Bonds on a Determination Date or a court holds that any rate set for
any Bonds is invalid or unenforceable, the Weekly Rate for such Bonds for
that period shall be set by the Remarketing Agent at the rate equal to the


94




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Prime Commercial Paper (30 day), Tax-Exempt rate most recently
published by The Bond Buyer or by such other publisher as the Issuer shall
designate in writing to the Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing
Agent, plus 1/8% per annum. If The Bond Buyer, or such replacement
publisher does not publish such a Prime Commercial Paper rate within
seven days preceding the Determination Date for which a Weekly Rate is to
be set, the Weekly Rate for such Bonds shall be set by the Remarketing
Agent at 55% of the interest rate for 30day taxable commercial paper (prime
paper placed through dealers) announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York on the Determination Date, converted to a couponequivalent rate.
In the event that the Remarketing Agent does not set the Weekly Rate as
described in the preceding two sentences, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall
set the rate based on the information so published upon which information
the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be entitled to conclusively rely. Upon
delivery to the Issuer of an Opinion of Bond Counsel to the effect that such
action will not adversely affect the validity of the Bonds or the exemption of
interest on the Bonds from federal income taxation under the Code and of a
certificate from the Remarketing Agent to the effect that the methods
described in this paragraph for setting the interest rate are unavailable or
unrealistic in the marketplace and the reasons therefor, then the Issuer,
with the advice of the Remarketing Agent, may designate a new method of
setting the Weekly Rate for any Bonds.
(3) Quarterly Rate. When interest on any Bonds is payable at a
Quarterly Rate, the Remarketing Agent shall, on each Determination Date,
set a Quarterly Rate for each Bond. The Quarterly Rate shall be effective
from and including the Implementation Date, to and including the day
preceding the next succeeding Implementation Date. Each Quarterly Rate
shall be the minimum rate necessary (as determined by the Remarketing
Agent taking into account prevailing market conditions) for the Remarketing Agent to sell such Bonds on the Determination Date at their principal
amount plus accrued interest.
If for any reason the Remarketing Agent does not set a Quarterly Rate
for any Bonds on a Determination Date, or a court holds that the Quarterly
Rate set for any Bonds for any Interest Period is invalid or unenforceable,
the Quarterly Rate for such Bonds for that period shall be set by the Remarketing Agent at the rate equal to the Prime Commercial Paper (30 day),
Tax-Exempt rate most recently published by The Bond Buyer or by such
other publisher or the Issuer shall designate in writing to the
Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing Agent, plus 1/4% per annum.
If The Bond Buyer or such replacement publication does not publish such a
Prime Commercial Paper rate within seven days preceding a Determination
Date on which a Quarterly Rate is to be set, the Quarterly Rate for such
Bonds shall be set by the Remarketing Agent at the rate equal to 70% of the
yield on 91 day United States Treasury securities as most recently published
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York before such Determination Date.
In the event that the Remarketing Agent does not set the Quarterly Rate as
described in the preceding two sentences, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall
set the rate based on the information so published upon which information
the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be entitled to conclusively rely. Upon
delivery to the Transfer/Tender Agent of an Opinion of Bond Counsel to the
effect that such action will not adversely affect the validity of the Bonds or
the exemption of interest on the Bonds from federal income taxation under
the Code and of a certificate from the Remarketing Agent to the effect that
the methods described in this paragraph for setting the interest rate are
unavailable or unrealistic in the market place and the reasons therefor, then
the Issuer, with the advice of the Remarketing Agent, may designate a new
method of setting the Quarterly Rate for any Bonds.
(4) Long Term Rate. When interest on any Bond is payable at a
Long Term Rate, the Remarketing Agent shall, on or before an applicable
Determination Date, set a Long Term Rate or Rates for such Bond, in each


95




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


case for the Long Term Rate Period for such Bond established by the Issuer
after consultation with the Remarketing Agent on or before the Determination Date. The Long Term Rate for any such Bonds shall be effective from
and including the Implementation Date, to and including the day preceding
the next succeeding Implementation Date. Each Long Term Rate shall be
the minimum rate necessary (as determined by the Remarketing Agent
taking into account prevailing market conditions) for the Remarketing
Agent to sell such Bonds on the Determination Date at a price equal to their
principal amount plus accrued interest. A separate Long Term Rate shall be
established for each portion of Bonds with different Long Term  Rate
Periods as designated by the Issuer.
If for any reason the Remarketing Agent does not set a Long Term
Rate for Bonds on an applicable Determination Date, or a court holds that
the Long Term Rate set for such Bonds for any Interest Period is invalid or
unenforceable, the interest on those Bonds shall be automatically converted
to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily Rate, pursuant to Section 203(a)(1)
above, provided that the Issuer obtains an Opinion of Bond Counsel to the
effect that such action will not adversely affect the validity of the Bonds or
the exemption of interest on the Bonds from federal income taxation under
the Code; otherwise, those Bonds shall continue to bear the same Long
Term Rate as had been set for that Interest Period for another Long Term
Rate Period of the same duration as had been previously set for those Bonds
by the Issuer pursuant to Section 203(a)(4).
(b) Interest Rate Determination by Remarketing Agent. The determination by the Remarketing Agent in accordance with this Section of the rates
to be borne by the Bonds during any Interest Period shall be conclusive and
binding on the Bondholders and the other Notice Parties. Failure by the Remarketing or Transfer/Tender Agent to give any notice required hereunder, or any
defect therein, shall not affect the interest rate borne by the Bonds or the rights
of the Bondholders to demand purchase.
The right of the Issuer to change any or a portion of the Bonds to or from
the Long Term Rate from or to another Adjusted Rate shall be contingent upon
its ability to obtain an Opinion of Bond Counsel on or before the date of the first
notice required to be given by the Transfer/Tender Agent pursuant to paragraph
(d) below, dated as of the date of such notice and to be reaffirmed as of the Implementation Date, that following the Implementation Date for the relevant Long
Term Rate Period, the Bonds continue to be the valid and binding obligations of
the Issuer and that the change to or from the Long Term Rate will not adversely
affect the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from gross income for federal
income tax purposes. The Issuer's exercise of the option to change to or from the
Long Term Rate shall be deemed rescinded in the event the foregoing condition is
not satisfied on or before the date required, in which event the Bonds shall
remain in the Daily Rate, Weekly Rate, the Quarterly Rate, or Long Term Rate,
as the case may be, and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall promptly notify the
affected Bondholders of such rescission. In the event of such rescission the Bonds
affected shall remain subject to Mandatory Purchase on the date originally specified for the change to or from the Long Term Rate. If, in the event of such rescission, the Bonds continue to bear interest at the Quarterly Rate, notwithstanding
any other provision hereof, the next Determination Date shall be the first
Business Day following the Mandatory Purchase Date described in the preceding
sentence and the next Implementation Date shall be the fifth Business Day
following the Determination Date. If, in the event of such rescission, the Bonds
continue to bear interest at a Long Term Rate, the Issuer shall, subject to the
Issuer's tax covenant in the Resolution, determine the length of the next succeeding Long Term Rate Period for such Bonds.
(c) Change in Rate Determination Method. The interest rate determination method with respect to the Bonds or any portion thereof in blocks of
integral multiples of $100,000 may be changed from one Adjusted Rate specified
in Section 203(a) hereof to another Adjusted Rate specified therein upon the


96




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


direction of the Issuer, following consultation with the Remarketing Agent.
Notice of such change in the Adjusted Rate period shall be given by the Issuer to
the other Notice Parties, at least 25 but not more than 60 days before the change
is to be effective. Such notice shall contain (a) the effective date of such change,
(b) the proposed Adjusted Rate (Daily Rate, Weekly Rate, Quarterly Rate or Long
Term Rate) and (c) the Determination Date. The effective date of any such
change shall be the first Business Day of a month; provided, however, that the
effective date of the change of any Bond bearing interest at a Long Term Rate to
another Adjusted Rate shall be the day following the last day of that Bond's then
current Long Term Rate Period, or any other date in which such Bond is subject
to optional redemption. Upon compliance with the provisions of this subsection,
the interest rate on the Bonds or portion thereof so changed shall accrue at the
new rate from the effective date specified in the notice of the Issuer until there is
another change as provided in this subsection.
Upon any change in an interest rate mode for the Bonds or any portion
thereof, the Issuer and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall take all steps necessary
to comply with any agreement entered into with The Depository Trust Company
or its nominee with respect to such change, including, without limitation, the
purchase and designation of sufficient CUSIP numbers.
If the interest rate on less than all Outstanding Bonds is to be converted to
a new Adjusted Rate, the particular Bonds to be converted shall be chosen by the
Transfer/Tender Agent; provided, however, that (i) the portion of the principal
amount of any Bond to be converted shall be equal to an authorized denomination
for the new Adjusted Rate, and (ii) the portion of such Bond not so converted
shall be equal to an authorized denomination for the current Adjusted Rate; and
provided, further, that in selecting Bonds for conversion, the Transfer/Tender
Agent may treat each Bond as representing the number of Bonds obtained by
dividing the principal amount of such Bond into units based on the authorized
denominations for the new Adjusted Rate and the current Adjusted Rate in such
manner as the Transfer/Tender Agent in its discretion may deem proper. If it is
determined that part, but not all, of the principal amount of any Bond is to be
changed to a new Adjusted Rate, then upon notice of intention to change such
part, the holder of such Bond shall forthwith surrender such Bond to the
Transfer/Tender Agent for (i) payment of the Purchase Price (including the
premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date fixed for
conversion) of such part so called for change of Adjusted Rate, and (ii) exchange
for a new Bond or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate
principal amount of the balance of the principal of such Bond not subject to such
change. If the holder of any such Bond of a denomination greater than the applicable minimum authorized denomination for the current Adjusted Rate shall fail
to present such Bond, such Bond shall nevertheless become due and payable on
the date fixed for change of Adjusted Rate to the extent of the portion thereof
subject to such change (and to that extent only).
(d) Notice to Bondholders of Change in Adjusted Rate Determination Method. When a change in the Adjusted Rate for any Bonds is to be made,
the Transfer/Tender Agent shall mail to the Owners of the Bonds, by first class
mail at the addresses shown on the registration books of the Issuer maintained by
the Transfer/Tender Agent, at least 15 but not more than 60 days before the
effective date of the change a notice prepared by the Issuer which shall state:
(1) that the period for which the Adjusted Rate is effective for such
Bonds will be changed and what the new Adjusted Rate period will be;
(2) the effective date of a new Adjusted Rate period for the Bonds;
(3) a description of the new Adjusted Rate for the Bonds (including
the Determination Date);
(4) the Interest Payment Dates and Record Dates applicable to the
new Adjusted Rate;


97




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(5) any ratings assigned or to be assigned to the Bonds by Moody's or
S&P effective on such change;
(6) the procedures that must be followed for the Bondholders to Put
their Bonds under the new Adjusted Rate; and
(7) that all Bonds (other than Bonds for which the holder has delivered notice of waiver of purchase pursuant to Section 309(c) and the notice
shall describe the manner of waiving such purchase) shall be subject to
mandatory purchase on the effective date of the change in the Adjusted Rate
period, and all information required to be included in a notice of mandatory
purchase pursuant to Section 309(b), including that any Bonds so required
to be purchased which are not delivered to the Transfer/Tender Agent on or
before 12:00 noon on the purchase date shall be deemed purchased in accordance with the provisions of Section 310.
(e) Fixed Rate
(1) At the option of the Issuer, subject to the conditions enumerated
below, the Adjusted Rate feature of the Bonds (in whole and not in portions)
may be permanently terminated. In such event all Bonds shall thereafter
bear interest at a Fixed Rate determined in the manner provided -in this
subsection. In order to exercise its option, the Issuer shall deliver a notice
to the Notice Parties directing such termination. The notice shall specify
the Fixed Rate Conversion Date, which shall be a Business Day not less
than 45 days following the date such notice is sent; provided, however, that
if any Bonds bear interest at a Long Term Rate, the Fixed Rate Conversion
Date must be the date (or, if not a Business Day, the first Business Day
thereafter) all Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate are subject to
redemption or to mandatory purchase pursuant to Section 309(a)(2). Upon
conversion to a Fixed Rate, the Bonds shall be converted to serial bonds
with maturities corresponding to the mandatory sinking account redemption requirements set forth in Section 301(c), provided that the Issuer shall
have the right to determine that only a portion or none of the Bonds shall
be so converted into serial bonds upon receipt of an Opinion of Bond
Counsel to the effect that such determination would not adversely affect the
validity of the Bonds or the exclusion of interest on the Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes under the Code.
(2) The Fixed Rate shall be established by the Remarketing Agent on
the "Fixed Rate Determination Date", which shall occur on or before the
fifteenth day preceding the Fixed Rate Conversion Date (or, if such day is
not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day) as the rate which
shall result as nearly as practicable in the market value of the Bonds on the
Fixed Rate Determination Date being equal to 100% of the principal amount
thereof plus, if the Issuer so elects, any premium necessary to pay for costs
of conversion and remarketing of the Bonds. Upon determining the Fixed
Rate the Remarketing Agent shall immediately notify the Transfer/Tender
Agent and the Issuer of such Fixed Rate, promptly confirmed in writing.
(3) Not less than 30 days prior to the Fixed Rate Conversion Date
stated in the notice from the Issuer, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall mail
by first class mail a notice prepared by the Issuer to each Bondholder
stating:
(A) that the Adjusted Rate feature will terminate and the interest rate on the Bonds will become a Fixed Rate;
(B) the Fixed Rate Conversion Date;
(C) the latest date the Fixed Rate shall be determined;


98




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(D) that after the Fixed Rate Conversion Date the Bondholders
will no longer have the right to Put Bonds to the Transfer/Tender
Agent for purchase;
(E) that all Bonds shall be subject to mandatory purchase on the
Fixed Rate Conversion Date, and all information required to be
included in a notice of mandatory purchase pursuant to Section 309(b),
including that any Bonds so required to be purchased which are not
delivered to the Transfer/Tender Agent on or before 12:00 noon on such
date shall be deemed purchased in accordance with the provisions of
Section 310;
(F) that any ratings assigned the Bonds may change on and
after the Fixed Rate Conversion Date;
(G) the redemption provisions to which the Bonds are subject
during the Fixed Rate Period;
(H) that during the Fixed Rate Period, Bonds may be issued in
denominations of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof; and
(I)  which Bonds the Issuer has elected will be term bonds
subject to the Mandatory Sinking Account Payments as set forth in
Section 301(c) hereof, and which are to be converted into serial bonds
maturing in the years and at such principal amounts as set forth in
Section 301(c) hereof.
Promptly   after  the  determination  of the  Fixed  Rate, the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall mail a second notice to each Bondholder advising such Bondholder of the Fixed Rate. In the event the Issuer determines
at any time on or prior to the Fixed Rate Conversion Date that it is unable
to meet the conditions set forth herein to convert the Bonds to the Fixed
Rate, the Issuer will promptly so notify the Transfer/Tender Agent and the
Transfer/Tender Agent will give prompt notice to the Bondholders that the
Issuer has elected not to convert to the Fixed Rate.
(4) The right of the Issuer to exercise the conversion option shall be
contingent (i) upon its ability to obtain on or before the date of the first
notice required to be given by the Transfer/Tender Agent pursuant to
paragraph (e)(3) above, an Opinion of Bond Counsel, dated as of the date of
such notice, to be reaffirmed as of the Fixed Rate Conversion Date, that
following the Fixed Rate Conversion Date, the Bonds continue to be the
valid and binding obligations of the Issuer and that the exercise of the
conversion option will not adversely affect the exclusion of the interest on
the Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (ii) upon
its ability to effect, on or before the second notice to be given by the
Transfer/Tender Agent pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) above, the execution of
a contract of purchase relating to the Bonds between the Issuer and the
Remarketing Agent or other underwriter or institutional investor, providing
for the simultaneous purchase of all Bonds. The Issuer's exercise of the
Fixed Rate conversion option shall be deemed rescinded in the event any of
the foregoing conditions are not satisfied on or before the date required or
in the event the contract of purchase described in (ii) above cannot by its
terms be performed on the Fixed Rate Conversion Date, in which event the
Bonds shall remain in the Daily Rate, Weekly Rate, Quarterly Rate or Long
Term Rate, as the case may be, and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall
promptly notify all Bondholders of such rescission. In the event of such
rescission all Bonds shall remain subject to Mandatory Purchase on the date
originally specified for the conversion to the Fixed Rate. If, in the event of
such rescission, the Bonds continue to bear interest at the Quarterly Rate,
notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the next Determination Date
shall be the first Business Day following the Mandatory Purchase Date


99




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


described in the preceding sentence and the next Implementation Date shall
be the fifth Business Day following the Determination Date.
(f) Calculation of Interest Generally.
(1) The Transfer/Tender Agent shall compute the amount of interest
payable on any Bonds from the rates supplied to the Transfer/Tender Agent
by the Remarketing Agent or from the rates determined by the Remarketing
Agent or the Transfer/Tender Agent, as the case may be, in accordance with
the terms of this Resolution. The Remarketing Agent shall notify the
Transfer/Tender Agent of any rate set by the Remarketing Agent in writing
or by telephone promptly confirmed in writing by 12:00 noon, New York
time,
(A) on the first Business Day after a month in which interest on
any Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate or a Weekly Rate, of the Daily
Rate or the Weekly Rate, as the case may be, for each day in such
month;
(B) on the first Business Day following a Determination Date
for a Quarterly Rate Period, of the Quarterly Rate set on that Determination Date;
(C) on the first Business Day following a Determination Date for
a Bond in a Long Term Rate Period, of the Long Term Rate and Long
Term Rate Period established for such Bond.
The Remarketing Agent shall inform the Transfer/Tender Agent, and
the Issuer orally at the request of either of them of any interest rate set by
the Remarketing Agent. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall inform the Issuer
and the Remarketing Agent orally at the request of either of them of any
interest rate set pursuant to Section 203(a) other than by the Remarketing
Agent. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall confirm the effective interest rate
by telephone or in writing to any Bondholder who requests it.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Resolution, interest
payable on the Bonds shall not exceed the Highest Lawful Rate.
(3) When interest on any Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate, a Weekly
Rate, or a Quarterly Rate interest on such Bonds shall be computed on the
basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as
appropriate. When interest on any Bonds is payable at a Long Term Rate or
a Fixed Rate, interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360day year of
twelve 30day months.
(4) The setting of the interest rates and the calculation of interest
payable on the Bonds as provided in this Resolution shall be conclusive and
binding on any Person, absent manifest error.
Section 204.    Purpose. Execution and Delivery of Bonds. The Bonds are
being issued for the purpose of providing funds which, together with other available funds of
the Issuer, will be used for paying the costs of acquiring, constructing, furnishing and equipping the Project and paying certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale
of the Bonds.
The Bonds shall be signed in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer by manual or
facsimile signatures of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the
Associate Vice President for Finance of the University of Michigan. In case any officer
whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to be
such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, such signature or facsimile shall nevertheless
be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such
delivery. No Bonds shall be entitled to any right or benefit under this Resolution unless
such fillyregistered Bond shall have endorsed thereon a certificate of authentication
substantially in the form hereinafter set forth duly executed by the Transfer/Tender Agent.


100




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


No fullyregistered Bond shall be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless and until such
certificate of authentication shall have been manually executed by the Transfer/Tender
Agent, and such manually executed certificate of the Transfer/Tender Agent upon such Bond
shall be conclusive evidence that such Bond has been authenticated and delivered under this
Resolution. The Transfer/Tender Agent's certificate of authentication on any fullyregistered
Bond shall be deemed to have been executed by it if manually signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer/Tender Agent, as the case may be, but it shall not be necessary that the
same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the fullyregistered Bonds issued
hereunder. Upon the execution and delivery of this Resolution, the Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University of
Michigan shall execute and deliver to the Transfer/Tender Agent on behalf of the Issuer and
the Transfer/Tender Agent will authenticate, the Bonds and deliver them to the purchaser or
purchasers at the place agreed upon by the authorized officers of the Issuer and the original
purchaser of the Bonds.
As per the direction of the initial purchasers of the Bonds, the Bonds shall be issued in bookentry-only form and the ownership of the Bonds shall be registered in the name of Cede &
Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"). In the event the Issuer determines that the continuation of the system of book-entry-only transfers through DTC (or a
successor securities depository) is not in the best interests of the beneficial owners of the
Bonds or the Issuer, it will so notify the Transfer/Tender Agent whereupon the
Transfer/Tender Agent will notify DTC of the availability through DTC of Bond certificates.
In such event, or in the event DTC discontinues its services with respect to the Bonds the
Issuer shall issue and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall transfer and exchange Bonds as
requested by DTC of like tenor, series principal amount, interest or principal appreciation
rate, series and maturity, in authorized denominations to the identifiable beneficial owners
in replacement of the beneficial interests of such beneficial owners in the Bonds. While the
Bonds are in book-entry-only form, payment of principal of and interest and premium, if
any, on said Bonds by the Transfer/Tender Agent or the Purchase Price of Bonds by the
Transfer/Tender Agent, to DTC or its nominee shall be made as shall be provided in a letter
of representation among DTC, the Issuer and the Transfer/Tender Agent, and the procedure
for making Puts of Bonds by Owners shall be in accordance to DTC procedures.
Section 205.    Form of Bond. The Bonds shall contain a recital that they are
issued pursuant to the laws of the State and may have printed thereon such legend or
legends as may be required to comply with any law, rule or regulation or to conform to
several usage or practice as determined to be advisabe by the Issuer. Each Bond shall be
numbered from R1 upwards.
The Bonds shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A with such appropriate changes, omissions and insertions as are permitted or required by this Resolution.
Section 206.    Transfer of Bonds. Except as provided in Article III with respect
to purchases and remarketing of Bonds and with respect to delivery of Issuer Owned Bonds,
each Bond shall be transferable only upon the books of the Issuer, which shall be kept for
that purpose at the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer/Tender Agent, by the
registered owner thereof in person or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, upon
surrender thereof at the principal corporate trust office of the Transfer/Tender Agent,
together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent
duly executed by the registered owner or a duly authorized attorney. Upon the transfer of
any Bond, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall issue in the name of the transferee and cause to
be authenticated a new Bond or Bonds of the same sub-series and aggregate principal
amount as the surrendered Bonds. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall make a charge for such
transfer sufficient to pay for any tax or other governmental fee or charge required to be paid
with respect to such transfer, but all other costs of making such transfer shall be borne by
the Issuer.
Subject to the provisions hereof relating to the Record Date and Issuer Owned Bonds,
the Issuer, the Remarketing Agent, and the Transfer/Tender Agent may deem and treat the
person in whose name any Bond shall be registered upon the books of the Issuer as the
absolute owner of such Bond, whether such Bond shall be overdue or not, for the purpose of
receiving payment of or on account of the principal and premium, if any, and interest on and
Purchase Price of such Bond and for all other purposes, including the giving or receipt of
notices, consents or directions as specified herein, and all such payments so made to any
such registered owner or upon his order shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge
the liability upon such Bond to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, and neither the Issuer,
the Remarketming Agent, nor the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be affected by any notice to the


101




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


contrary. Any registered owner of the Bonds may take actions relating to consents or directions with respect to a portion (in authorized denominations) of such Bonds which are inconsistent with the actions taken with respect to other portions (in authorized denominations)
of such Bonds.
Except as provided in Article III, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall not be required (i) to
issue transfer or exchange any Bond during a period beginning at the opening of business 15
days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Bonds selected for redemption
and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) transfer or exchange
any Bond so selected for redemption in whole or in part within 30 days of the redemption
date, except for the unredeemed portion of Bonds called for redemption in part.
Section 207.    Mutilated, Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Bonds. Subject to and in
accordance with applicable law, if any Bond shall become mutilated, the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the
University of Michigan, at the expense of the holder of the Bond, shall, without further
action being required by the Issuer execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified
above, and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like
tenor in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Bond, upon surrender to the
Transfer/Tender Agent of the mutilated Bond and receipt by the Transfer/Tender Agent and
the Issuer of indemnity satisfactory to them. Subject to and in accordance with applicable
law, if any Bond issued under this Resolution shall be lost, destroyed or stolen, evidence of
the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer/Tender Agent and if this
evidence is satisfactory to both the Transfer/Tender Agent and the Issuer and indemnity
satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent and the Issuer shall be given, the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the
University of Michigan, at the expense of the owner, shall, without further action being
required by the Issuer cause to be prepared and execute or cause to be executed in the
manner specified above and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall thereupon authenticate and
deliver, a new Bond of like tenor, bearing any statement required by applicable law in lieu of
and in substitution for the Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Bond shall have
matured or shall be about to mature, instead of issuing a substitute Bond the
Transfer/Tender Agent may pay the same without surrender thereof.
Section 208.    Cancellation of Bonds. All Bonds which have been retired by
maturity, redemption or purchase by the Issuer shall be canceled by the Transfer/Tender
Agent and returned promptly to the Issuer or cremated or shredded and a certificate of such
cremation or shredding delivered to the Issuer. Bonds in substitution or exchange for which
other Bonds have been delivered shall be canceled and returned promptly to the Issuer.
ARTICLE III
REDEMPTION OF BONDS; PUTS
Section 301.    Terms of Redemption. The Bonds shall be subject to redemption
as described below. All redemptions shall be made at a redemption price of 100% of the
principal amount of the Bonds being redeemed, unless a premium is required as provided
below, plus interest to the redemption date.
(a) Optional Redemption Of Bonds During Daily Rate, Weekly
Rate, or Quarterly Rate. When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Daily
Rate, a Weekly Rate, or a Quarterly Rate, Bonds may be redeemed at the option
of the Issuer in whole or in part at any time, at the principal amount thereof plus
accrued interest, if any, without premium.
(b) Optional Redemption of Bonds at a Premium During Long Term
Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period. Bonds which are payable at a Long Term
Rate or a Fixed Rate may be redeemed at the option of the Issuer in whole or in
part as provided in this subsection; provided, however, that an Authorized Officer
may determine prior to the sale of the Bonds to establish a different schedule of
redemption dates and prices for Bonds in the Long Term Rate Period or Fixed
Rate Period.


102




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Subject to adjustment by an Authorized Officer as described above, if the
Long Term Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period, whichever is applicable, is greater
than two years, the Bonds shall be redeemable at 100% of their principal amount
in the final year, 1001/2% during the nexttolast year, and nonredeemable prior to
that. If the Long Term Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period, whichever is applicable,
is equal to or less than two years, the Bonds shall not be redeemable prior to
maturity or the final Interest Payment Date in the Long Term Rate Period, but
shall be redeemable at par, without premium, on the final Interest Payment Date
in the Long Term Rate Period.
The no-call periods and premiums described in this subsection (b) may be
revised to those set forth in a written notice of the Remarketing Agent delivered
to the Issuer and the Transfer/Tender Agent prior to the Implementation Date
for the applicable Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate or prior to the
Fixed Rate Conversion Date for Bonds bearing interest at a Fixed Rate, if in the
opinion of the Remarketing Agent such revisions more accurately reflect thencurrent market conditions. Such notice shall be accompanied by an Opinion of
Bond Counsel to the effect that such revisions would not adversely affect the
validity of the Bonds or the exclusion of interest on the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes under the Code.
(c) Mandatory Sinking Account Redemption of Bonds. The Bonds
are subject to mandatory redemption on the dates and in the principal amounts
determined by the Authorized Officer at the time of sale of the Bonds at the
principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, without premium.
The principal amount of Bonds to be redeemed pursuant to this subsection
(c) shall be reduced, in the order determined by the Issuer, by the principal
amount of Bonds which have been previously redeemed or called for redemption,
other than pursuant to this subsection (c), or purchased or acquired by the Issuer
and delivered to the Transfer/Tender Agent for cancellation. The Issuer shall
give written notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent at least 30 days prior to any
redemption date (but not less than 45 days prior to the redemption date in the
case of Bonds bearing interest at a Fixed Rate) pursuant to this subsection (c) of
the Issuer exercise of its option to reduce the amount of the redemption requirements pursuant to this subsection (c) on such date and the amount of such
reduction.
Section 302.      Selection of Bonds for Redemption. Whenever provision is
made in this Resolution for the redemption of less than all of the Bonds or any given portion
thereof, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall select the Bonds to be redeemed from all Bonds
subject to redemption or suchgiven portion thereof not previously called for redemption, by
lot in any manner which the Transfer/Tender Agent in its sole discretion shall deem appropriate and fair, and for this purpose the Transfer7Tender Agent shall consider each Bond in a
denomination larger than the minimum denomination permitted by the Bonds at the time to
be separate Bonds each in the minimum denomination. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall
promptly notify the Issuer in writing of the Bonds or portions thereof so selected for
redemption.
Section 303.    Notice of Redemption. Notice of redemption shall be mailed not
less than 15 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date (but not less than 30 days
prior to the redemption date in the case of Bonds bearing interest at a Fixed Rate), to the
respective Owners of any Bonds designated for redemption at their addresses appearing on
the registration books maintained by the Transfer/Tender Agent. Each notice ofredemption
shall state the redemption date, the place or places of redemption, and, if less than all of the
Bonds are to be redeemed, the distinctive number of the Bonds to be redeemed and, in the
case of Bonds to be redeemed in part only, the respective portions of the principal amount
thereof to be redeemed. Each such notice shall also state that on said date there will become
due and payable on each of said Bonds the principal and premium if any, thereof or of said
specified portion of the principal thereof in the case of a Bond to be redeemed in part only,
together with interest accrued thereon to the redemption date, and that from and after such
redemption date interest thereon shall cease to accrue, and shall require that such Bonds be
then surrendered. Notice required under this Section which has been mailed is conclusively
presumed to have been given, even if it has not been received.


103




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Notice of redemption of Bonds shall be given by the Transfer/Tender Agent, at the
expense of, for and on behalf of the Issuer.
Section 304.   Partial Redemption of Bonds. Upon surrender of any Bond
redeemed in part only the Issuer shall execute and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall authenticate and deiver to te Owner thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Bond or Bonds of
the same authorized denominations equal in aggregate principal amount to the unredeemed
portion of the Bond surrendered.
Section 305.   Effect of Redemption. Notice of redemption having been dul
given as asforesaid, and moneys for payment of the principal and premium, if any, thereo
together with interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Bonds (or portions thereof) so
called for redemption being held by the Transfer/Tender Agent, on the redemption date
designated in such notice, the Bons (or portionse, thereof) so called for redemption shall
become due and payable, interest on the Bonds so called for edemption shall cease to accrue,
said Bonds (or portions thereof) shall cease to be entitled to any benefit or security under
this Resolution, and the Owners of said Bonds shall have no rights in respect thereof except
to receive payment of said principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest.
Section 306.   Daily Rate Puts.
(a) When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate, an Owner of any
such Bond may Put such Owner's Bond by delivering:
(1) an irrevocable written or telephonic notice to the Transfer/Tender
Agent and to the Remarketing Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on a
Business Day, of such Owner's intent to Put such Bond and stating the
principal amount of the Bond and the number of such Bond or other information as may be necessary to specifically identify such Bond and the date
(which must be a Business Day and may be the date the notice is delivered)
such Bond is to be purchased;
(2) such Bond, together with an executed assignment in blank, in
form satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent to the principal office of the
Transfer/Tender Agent by 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Purchase
Date but any Bond for which the notice described in (a)(1) above was given
not so delivered shall nevertheless be deemed purchased shall nevertheless be deemed purchased as provided in
Section 310 of this Resolution; provided, that such delivery by 12:00 noon,
New York time, shall be required for same day payment of the Purchase
Price.
Promptly following receipt of the notice referred to in (1) above, the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall give notice to the Issuer of the principal amount of
Bonds being tendered on that date.
(b) On the Purchase Date (all times New York time)
(1) On or before 11:30 a.m. the Remarketing Agent shall give irrevocable telephonic notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent, and the Issuer of the
principal amount of Bonds subject to purchase on the Purchase Date which
have not been remarketed by the Remarketing Agent at the time of such
notice. In the event the Remarketing Agent fails to provide timely notice to
the Issuer as provided in this clause (1), the Issuer shall presume that none
of the Bonds being tendered on such date have been remarketed.
(2) On or before 2:30 p.m. the Issuer shall pay or cause to be paid, but
only from the sources specified in Section 311 hereof, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds the amount of the Purchase Price of the
unremarketed tendered Bonds specified in the notice provided pursuant to
(b)(l) above (or otherwise presumed not remarketed), on such date to the
Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(3) By the close of business the Transfer/Tender Agent shall register
Issuer Owned Bonds in the name of the Issuer or its nominee in the


104




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


principal amount of the unremarketed Bonds purchased by the Issuer on
such date, authenticate said Bonds and hold the same for the benefit of the
Issuer or for delivery to the Issuer or its designee as the Issuer shall direct.
(4) On or before 3:30 p.m. the Remarketing Agent shall pay or cause
to be paid in immediately available funds the Purchase Price of remarketed
Bonds to the Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(5)    By  the  close of business on    the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall pay, from such immediately available funds
received by it for such purpose, the Purchase Price of Bonds properly delivered for purchase to the prior holders thereof in same day funds.
(6)    By  the close of business on     the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall deliver to the purchaser of remarketed Bonds,
Bonds registered as directed by such purchaser.
Section 307.    Weekly Rate Puts.
(a) When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Weekly Rate, an Owner of
any such Bond may Put such Owner's Bond by delivering:
(1) a written, irrevocable notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent and the
Remarketing Agent by 5:00 p.m., New York time, on a Business Day, of such
Owner's intent to Put such Owner's Bond and stating the principal amount
of such Bond and the number of such Bond or other information as may be
necessary to specifically identify such Bond and the date (which must be a
Business Day at least seven days after the date the notice is delivered,
provided that if such seventh day is not a Business Day, the Purchase Date
may be the next preceding Business Day) such Bond is to be purchased; and
(2) such Bond, together with an executed assignment in blank, in
form satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent to the principal office of the
Transfer/Tender Agent by 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Purchase
Date but any Bond not so delivered shall nevertheless be deemed purchased
as provided in Section 310 of this Resolution; provided, that such delivery by
12:00 noon shall be required for same day payment of the Purchase Price.
Promptly following receipt of the notice referred to in (1) above the Transfer/Tender
Agent shalI give notice to the Issuer of the principal amount of Bonds being tendered on the
specified Purchase Date.
(b) On the Purchase Date (all times New York time)
(1) On or before 9:30 a.m. the Remarketing Agent shall give irrevocable telephonic notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent, and the Issuer of the
principal amount of Bonds subject to purchase on the Purchase Date which
have not been remarketed by the Remarketing Agent at the time of such
notice. In the event the Remarketing Agent fails to provide timely notice to
the Issuer as provided in this clause (1), the Issuer shall presume that none
of the Bonds being tendered on such date have been remarketed.
(2) On or before 2:30 p.m. the Issuer shall pay or cause to be paid, but
only from the sources specified in Section 311 hereof, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds the amount of the Purchase Price of the
unremarketed tendered Bonds specified in the notice provided- pursuant to
(b)(1) above (or otherwise presumed not remarketed), to the
Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(3) By the close of business the Transfer/Tender Agent shall register
Issuer Owned Bonds in the name of the Issuer or its nominee in the amount
of the principal amount of Bonds purchased by the Issuer, authenticate said
Bonds and hold the same for the benefit of the Issuer or for delivery to the
Issuer or its designee as the Issuer shall direct.


105




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(4) On or before 3:30 p.m. the Remarketing Agent shall pay or cause
to be paid in immediately available funds the Purchase Price of remarketed
Bonds to the Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(5)   By the close of business on the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall pay, from such immediately available funds
received by it for such purpose, the Purchase Price of Bonds properly delivered for purchase to the prior holders thereof in same day funds.
(6)   By the close of business on the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall deliver to the purchaser of remarketed Bonds,
Bonds registered as directed by such purchaser.
Section 308.   Quarterly Rate Puts.
(a) When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Quarterly Rate, an Owner
of any such Bond may Put such Owner's Bond by delivering:
(1) a written, irrevocable notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent and the
Remarketing Agent by 5:00 p.m., New York time, on a Business Day, at
least six Business Days prior to the next succeeding Implementation Date,
which Implementation Date shall be the Purchase Date, of such Owner's
intent to Put such Owner's Bond and stating the principal amount of such
Bond and the number of such Bond or other information as may be necessary to specifically identify such Bond.
(2) such Bond, together with an executed assignment in blank, in
form satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent to the principal corporate
trust office of the Transfer/Tender Agent by 12:00 noon, New York time, on
the Purchase Date but any Bond not so delivered shall nevertheless be
deemed purchased as provided in Section 310 of this Resolution; provided,
that such delivery by 12:00 noon shall be required for same day delivery of
the Purchase Price.
Promptly following receipt of the notice referred to in (1) above the Transfer/Tender
Agent shall give notice to the Issuer of the principal amount of Bonds being tendered on the
specified Purchase Date.
(b) On the Purchase Date (all times New York time)
(1) On or before 9:30 a.m. the Remarketing Agent shall give irrevocable telephonic notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent, and the Issuer of the
principal amount of Bonds subject to purchase on the Purchase Date which
have not been remarketed by the Remarketing Agent at the time of such
notice. In the event the Remarketing Agent fails to provide timely notice to
the Issuer as provided in this clause (1), the Issuer shall presume that none
of the Bonds being tendered on such date have been remarketed.
(2) On or before 2:30 p.m. the Issuer shall pay or cause to be paid, but
only from the sources specified in Section 311 hereof, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds the amount of the Purchase Price of the
unremarketed tendered Bonds specified in the notice provided pursuant to
(b)(1) above (or otherwise presumed not remarketed), to the
Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(3) By the close of business the Transfer/Tender Agent shall register
Issuer Owned Bonds in the name of the Issuer or its nominee in the amount
of the principal of the Bonds purchased by the Issuer on such date, authenticate said Bonds and hold the same for the benefit of the Issuer or for delivery to the Issuer or its designee as the Issuer shall direct.
(4) On or before 3:30 p.m. the Remarketing Agent shall pay or cause
to be paid in immediately available funds the Purchase Price of remarketed
Bonds to the Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.


106




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(5)    By the close of business on    the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall pay, from such immediately available funds
received by it for such purpose, the Purchase Price of Bonds properly delivered for purchase to the prior holders thereof in same day funds.
(6)   By the close of business on     the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall deliver to the purchaser of remarketed Bonds,
Bonds registered as directed by such purchaser.
Section 309.    Mandatory Purchase of Bonds.
(a) The Bonds, other than Issuer Owned Bonds, are subject to mandatory
purchase upon any of the following dates (each a "Mandatory Purchase Date"):
(1) On the effective date of any change in the method of determining
the Daily Rate, Weekly Rate and Quarterly Rate pursuant to Section 203(c)
hereof;
(2) With respect to each Bond bearing interest at a Long Term Rate,
on the day following the last day of each Long Term Rate Period; provided,
that if such date is not a Business Day, the Purchase Date shall be the
following Business Day, but interest shall accrue only through the last day
of the Long Term Rate Period and such purchase shall be deemed effective
on the date following the last day of the Long Term Rate Period; or
(3) On the Fixed Rate Conversion Date.
(b) Notice of mandatory purchase pursuant to Section 309(a)(3) shall be
mailed by the Transfer/Tender Agent in accordance with Section 203(e)(3).
Notice of mandatory purchase pursuant to Sections 309(a)(1) and (a)(2) shall be
mailed by the Transfer/Tender Agent in accordance with Section 203(d) hereof.
Notice in each case shall be mailed to the respective Owners of the Bonds at their
addresses maintained by the Transfer/Tender Agent. Each notice of mandatory
purchase shall state the Mandatory Purchase Date and the place or places of
mandatory purchase and, with respect to mandatory purchases pursuant to
Section 309(a)(1) that the holders may waive purchase upon filing of the instrument specified in (c) below. Each such notice shall also state that on said date
there will become due and payable on said Bonds the Purchase Price and that
from and after the Mandatory Purchase Date interest thereon shall cease to
accrue to the prior holder of the Bond to be purchased, and shall require, unless
waived pursuant to paragraph (c) below, that such Bonds be then surrendered
and if not so surrendered that the Bonds will be deemed purchased in accordance
with Section 310 of this Resolution.
(c) Any Owner may waive a purchase of a Bond on a Mandatory Purchase
Date established pursuant to Section 309(a)(1), by delivery to the
Transfer/Tender Agent, on or before the sixth Business Day preceding the
Mandatory Purchase Date, the Bonds with respect to which such waiver is made
together with a written instrument of such Owner (1) directing that such Bonds
not be purchased on the Mandatory Purchase Date, (2) agreeing not to sell such
Bonds prior to the Mandatory Purchase Date, (3) agreeing not to exercise a Put
applicable to such Bonds prior to the Mandatory Purchase Date, and (4) acknowledging that such waiver is irrevocable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no waiver
may be made with respect to any Bond that has been called for redemption. The
Transfer/Tender Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent by telephone at the
opening of business on the fifth Business Day preceding a Mandatory Purchase
Date, promptly confirmed in writing, of the principal amount of Bonds for which
waivers have been received pursuant to this Section 309(c).
(d) Any Bond subject to purchase shall be purchased, or deemed purchased,
on its Mandatory Purchase Date at the Purchase Price. Delivery of such Bond
(with an appropriate transfer of registration executed in blank in form satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent) at the principal corporate trust office of the


107




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Transfer/Tender Agent at or prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Mandatory Purchase Date shall be required for same day payment of the Purchase Price.
Unless waived pursuant to Section 309(c) hereof, all Bonds subject to purchase
shall be deemed to have been tendered for purchase on the Mandatory Purchase
Date and if any such Bond is not delivered on the Mandatory Purchase Date, the
provisions with respect to Undelivered Bonds in Section 310 of this Resolution
shall apply. No Owner shall be entitled to payment of the Purchase Price for any
Bond except upon surrender of such Bond as set forth herein.
(e) On the Mandatory Purchase Date (all times New York time)
(1) On or before 9:30 a.m. the Remarketing Agent shall give irrevocable telephonic notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent, and the Issuer of the
principal amount of Bonds subject to purchase on the Mandatory Purchase
Date which have not been remarketed by the Remarketing Agent at the
time of such notice. In the event the Remarketing Agent fails to provide
timely notice to the Issuer as provided in this clause (1), the Issuer shall
presume that none of the Bonds being tendered on such date have been
remarketed.
(2) On or before 2:30 p.m. the Issuer shall pay, or cause to be paid,
but only from the sources specified in Section 311 hereof, by wire transfer of
immediately available funds the amount of the Purchase Price of unremarketed tendered Bonds specified in the notice provided pursuant to (e)(1)
above (or otherwise presumed not remarketed) on such date to the
Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(3) By the close of business the Transfer/Tender Agent shall register
Issuer Owned Bonds in the name of the Issuer or its nominee in the amount
of the Issuer principal of Bonds purchased by the Issuer on such date,
authenticate said Bonds and hold the same for the benefit of the Issuer or
for delivery to the Issuer or its designee as the Issuer shall direct.
(4) On or before 3:30 p.m. the Remarketing Agent shall pay or cause
to be paid in immediately available funds the Purchase Price of remarketed
Bonds to the Transfer/Tender Agent for deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund.
(5)   By the close of business on     the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall pay, from such immediately available funds
received by it for such purpose, the Purchase Price of Bonds properly delivered for purchase to the prior holders thereof in same day funds.
(6)   By the close of business on the Purchase Date the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall deliver to, or make available for pickup by, the
purchaser of remarketed Bonds, Bonds registered as directed by such
purchaser.
Section 310.    Undelivered Bonds. Any Bonds which are required to be tendered
for purchase on a Purchase Date to the Transfer/Tender Agent or Remarketing Agent that
are not delivered on the Purchase Date for which there has been irrevocably deposited in
trust in the Bond Purchase Fund an amount of money sufficient to pa the urchase Price
thereof shall be deemed to have been purchased pursuant to this Section, and shall be
Undelivered Bonds. In the event of a failure by a Bondholder to tender its Bonds on or prior
to the required date, said Owner of such Undelivered Bonds shall not be entitled to any
payment other than the Purchase Price and Undelivered Bonds in the hands of such nondelivering owner shall no longer accrue interest or be entitled to the benefits of this Resolution, except for the payment of the Purchase Price; provided, however, that the indebtedness
represented by such Bonds shall not be extinguished.
With respect to any Undelivered Bond, the Transfer/Tender Agent acting pursuant to
the power of attorney granted by such Bondholder in the Bond, shall do the following:
(a) Assign, endorse, and register transfer such Bond to the purchaser or
purchasers thereof;


108




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(b) Authenticate and deliver a new Bond or Bonds, as appropriate, to the
purchaser or purchasers thereof including the Issuer, if appropriate. If the transferee of such Bond is the Issuer, then the Issuer or its nominee shall be registered
as the owner thereof and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall authenticate and hold
such authenticated Bond in trust for the Issuer.
(c) Execute an acknowledgment that the holder of Undelivered Bonds,
holds such Undelivered Bond for the benefit of the new purchaser or purchasers
thereof, who shall be identified in such notation;
(d) Promptly notify by first class mail the holder of such Undelivered Bond
that:
(1) The Transfer/Tender Agent has acted pursuant to such power of
attorney to transfer the Undelivered Bond and to perform the other acts set
forth in this Section;
(2) The Undelivered Bond in the hands of the prior holder thereof is
no longer deemed Outstanding under the Resolution and has ceased to bear
interest on the Purchase Date; and
(3) Funds equal to the applicable Purchase Price for such Bond are
being held on behalf of such holder, without interest, in the Bond Purchase
Fund established for such purpose by the Transfer/Tender Agent.
Failure of the Transfer/Tender Agent to give such notice shall not affect the
Mandatory Purchase of such Bonds or the fact that interest shall cease to accrue
or impose any liability on the Transfer/Tender Agent.
(e) Hold the Purchase Price for such Bond in the Bond Purchase Fund
established for such purpose, without interest, and pay such Purchase Price to
such holder upon presentation of the certificate representing the Undelivered
Bond. Undelivered Bonds presented for payment by 12:00 noon on any Business
Day shall be paid in same day funds, and if presented after 12:00 noon on any
Business Day shall be paid on the next succeeding Business Day.
Section 311.    Sources of Payment by Issuer of Bond Purchase Price. The
Issuer's obligation to pay the Purchase Price of Bonds tendered or deemed tendered pursuant to Sections 306, 307, 308 or 309 which have not been remarketed shall be payable from
the Issuer's available cash reserves, but shall be limited in amount at any time to the
amount of unrestricted fund balances of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of
the University of Michigan as of the close of the last Fiscal Year for which the report
required by this Section 311 has been completed, less the amount of the Purchase Price of
Bonds purchased by the Issuer and not subsequently remarketed since the last day of such
Fiscal Year. In addition, the Issuer's obligation to pay the Purchase Price of Bonds tendered
or deemed tendered may be payable from any Credit Support Instrument which the Issuer
may, in its sole discretion, subsequently provide. The Issuer will produce an annual report
within 180 days after the close of each Fiscal Year, certified by the Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, which
shows the unrestricted fund balances of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of
the University of Michigan for purposes of the computing the amounts and limitations
described in this Section 311.
Section 312.    Issuer Owned Bonds.     Issuer Owned Bonds purchased by the
Issuer pursuant to Sections 306, 307, 308 or 309 shall be held for remarketing by the
Transfer/Tender Agent and shall remain outstanding (unless and until the Issuer surrenders
them to the Transfer/Tender Agent for cancellation) and shall not be deemed paid or
discharged by merger. Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Remarketing Agreement,
Issuer Owned Bonds held by the Issuer or its nominee for thirty days or longer shall not be
remarketed except upon delivery of an Opinion of Bond Counsel that such holding and
remarketing will not adversely affect the exclusion from gross income for federal income tax
purpose of the interest on such Bonds.


109




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401.   Establishment of Proiect Fund. There is hereby created and
established with the Issuer the Project Fund. There shall be deposited in the Project Fund
all net proceeds from the sale of the Bonds. All moneys in the Project Fund shall be used for
the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 402.   Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created and established with the Transfer/Tender Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond
Fund:
1.  Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues as pledged and required to be paid into
the Bond Fund at the times and in the amounts provided in Section 504.
2.   All Legally Available Funds required to be paid into the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 505.
3.   All Investment Income.
4.   Any moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements
provided for in Article V which are directed to be so deposited by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided
in Article V.
Section 403.   Establishment of Revenue Fund. There was created and established by a prior resolution adopted by the Issuer the Revenue Fund, as a subaccount within
a general banking account of the Issuer designated by the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University. From and after the date of delivery of the Bonds
there shall be deposited in the Revenue Fund as received all Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues. All moneys in the Revenue Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as
provided in Article V.
Section 404.   Establishment of Bond Purchase Fund. There is hereby created
and established with the Transfer/Tender Agent the Bond Purchase Fund.    The
Transfer/Tender Agent shall deposit in the Bond Purchase Fund all moneys, and only the
moneys, received in accordance with this Resolution from the proceeds of remarketing of the
Bonds by the Remarketing Agent and from the payments made by the Issuer pursuant to
Sections 306, 307, 308 and 309 hereof. All moneys in the Bond Purchase Fund shall be used
for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article III and Article VIII hereof.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501.   Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon the receipt
thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Project Fund.
Section 502.   Use of and Disbursements from Proiect Fund.      Moneys in
the Project Fund shall be used pursuant to the following purposes (the "Project Costs"):
1.   Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing and other
expenses of the University in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale
and delivery of the Bonds;
2.   Payments necessary to finance the cost of the construction and equipping of
the Project or to reimburse the Issuer for general funds expended in connection with the foregoing.


110




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Upon disbursement of all funds in the Project Fund, if the Project shall then be incomplete, the Issuer shall complete the Project using available funds. Any amount remaning in
the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall, as directed by the Issuer,
be used to retire Bonds on the first practicable redemption date, or used by the Issuer for
payment of any other lawful capital costs of the Issuer relating to the Program as determined by the Issuer. The depository for the Project Fund shall make disbursements from
the Project Fund upon the order of the Issuer and shall have no duty or liability with respect
to the manner or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the Issuer from the Project
Fund or in fact are used or applied by the Issuer.
Section 503.    Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. The Transfer/Tender
Agent shall use moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal, premium if any, and interest on
the Bonds as the   e become due and in the case of principal, as the Bonds are presented
and surrendered. The Transfer/Tender Agent may use moneys in the Bond Fund not
required to pay principal and interest on the Bonds on the next interest payment date for
the acquisition of Bonds in the open market at the written direction of the Issuer. Any
amounts remaining in the Bond Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made
therefor under the Resolution shall be returned to the Issuer.
Section 504.    Use of and Disbursements from Revenue Fund. On or before
the date prior to each interest payment date, the Issuer shall transfer or cause to be transferred from the Revenue Fund to the Bond Fund sufficient moneys (together with funds
then on hand in the Bond Fund) to pay the interest or principal and interest due on the
Bonds on such interes pa  ent date. The Issuer shall transer erto the bond funds established for the Outstanding Bonds and any additional Parity Obligations sufficient moneys to
pay the interest or principal, premium, if any, and interest due on any additional Parity
Obligations on or before the interest payment dates for such Parity Obligations. Prior to
making the transfers required by the preceding sentences, the Issuer shall use moneys in the
Revenue Fund solely, together with other funds of the Issuer derived from or related to the
Program, to pay Operating Costs; provided, however, that the Issuer shall manage the
Program and the payment of Operating Costs in such a manner that sufficient funds shall be
available in the Revenue Fund to make the transfers to the Bond Fund and to the bond
funds established for the Prior Bonds and any additional Parity Obligations on the dates
required. After making the required transfers to the Bond Fund and to the bond funds
established for the Prior Bonds any additional Parity Obligations as required by this Section
504, and after the payment of Operating Costs in each Fiscal Year, Surplus Revenues may be
withdrawn from the Revenue Fund and used for any lawful purpose of the University.
Section 505.    Covenant to Use Legally Available Funds. To the extent that
on any date on which any payment is required to be made from the Bond Fund pursuant to
Section 503, the amounts on deposit in the Bond Fund are insufficient to make such
payment, the Issuer covenants to transfer to the Transfer/Tender Agent from any Legally
Available Funds the amount sufficient to make up such payment deficiency and the
Transfer/Tender Agent shall use the amount so transferred to make up such deficiency. In
addition, the University may, but shall not be required to, use Legally Available Funds to
pay the Purchase Price of Bonds tendered or subject to mandatory purchase, to the extent
funds are not otherwise available under Section 311 hereof.
Section 506.    Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until
required for use, shall be invested by Transfer/Tender Agent at the direction of the Issuer, in
writing or orally (promptly confirmed in writing) in direct obligations of, or obligations the
principal and the interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of America; or
obligations of Federal Farm Credit Banks, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National
Mortgage Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the
Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association,
the Bank for Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration
and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association; or tax-exempt obligations rated A or
better by Moody's Investors Service and Standard and Poor's Corporation in the case of
long-term obligations, or in the highest category at each such rating agency in the case of
short-term  obligations; or may be deposited in a bank or banks (including the
Transfer/Tender Agent) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances or in certificates of deposit; or may be invested in any fund or fund composed entirely
of any or all of the above-described investment vehicles (provided that, with respect to
tax-exempt obligations in such funds, the obligations need not be rated A or better, but
rather must be, or be deemed to be by the fund's sponsor or adviser, investment grade).
Moneys held in the Project Fund and the Revenue Fund may be invested in any investments


111




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


legally available for University funds. Moneys in the Bond Purchase Fund shall be held
uninvested.
Interest or profit earned on the investments or deposits in the funds listed above, and
any loss on such investments or deposits shall be credited or charged to the fund in which
the investment was held.
Section 507.    Non-Arbitrage and Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants
that, to the it shall take all actions within its control and refrain from taking other actions,
in each case as shall be necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from
gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the
'Code") including but not limited to, actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings, if
required, and the expenditure and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be
Bond proceeds. The Issuer is responsible for filing all reports relating to arbitrage matters
and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall have no responsibility with respect thereto.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND
SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 601.    Security for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or general
obligations of the state of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Issuer, but are limited
obligations of the Issuer, equally and ratably secured only by the following:
1.   All moneys and investments in the Bond Fund;
2.   Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and the Issuer's right to receive Adjusted
Gross Athletic Revenues; and
3.   All moneys and investments in the Revenue Fund.
The Issuer hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security interest in all of
the foregoing, and in order to assure this security the Issuer covenants and agrees that the
Bondholders shall have a first lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund, and that Bondholders
shall have a first lien against Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and moneys in the Revenue
Fund of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge of Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues for the Prior Bonds and additional Parity Obligations which the Issuer reserves
the right to issue under Article IX. The lien of the pledge of the Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues, and on the Bond Fund and the Revenue Fund, shall be valid and binding from the
date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or properties subject thereto which
are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without hysical
delivery or further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and binding against all parties
having claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Issuer (except for the holders of the
Prior onds and any additional Parity Obligations of the Issuer payable from a first lien on
Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues) irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the
lien.
Section 602.    Limitations of Obligations. No recourse under any obligation
covenant, stipulation or indenture contained in this Resolution or in any Bond issued
hereunder or caused by the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had
against the state of Michigan or the Issuer or any member or officer of the Issuer or the
University; nor shall any such obligation ever be or become a charge against the state of
Michigan, nor shall the same become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or
mixed, of the state of Michigan or the Regents it being expressly understood and agreed that
the Bonds and the obligations created hereunder are secured only by Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues and moneys in the Bond Fund and Revenue Fund, and are additionally ayable
from Legally Available Funds to the extent provided herein and that no other liability
whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the state of Michigan, the Issuer, or any
member or officer of the Issuer or the University, or its successors; all other liability, except
as herein provided, being expressly waived.


112




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


ARTICLE VII
THE REMARKETING AGENT
Section 701.   Appointment of Remarketing Agent: Resignation and Removal.
(a) The initial Remarketing Agent shall be designated by an Authorized
Officer prior to the sale of the Bonds. The Remarketing Agent shall designate in
writing to the Issuer and the Transfer/Tender Agent its principal office and
signify its acceptance of the duties and obligations imposed upon it hereunder and
in the Remarketing Agreement by a written instrument of acceptance delivered to
the Issuer.
(b) The Remarketing Agent may at any time resign and be discharged of
the duties and obligations created by this Resolution by giving at least 30 days'
written notice to the Notice Parties. The Remarketing Agent may be removed at
any time by the Issuer by a written notice filed at least 15 days prior to the effective date of such removal with the Notice Parties. Upon the resignation or
removal of the Remarketing Agent, the Remarketing Agent shall pay over, deliver
and assign any moneys and Bonds held by it in such capacity to its successor.
Section 702.   Qualifications of Successor Remarketing Agent. If the position
of Remarketing Agent shall become vacant for any reason, or if the Remarketing Agent gives
notice of its resignation as provided in Section 701(b) hereof, the Issuer shall immediately
use its best efforts to appoint a successor Remarketing Agent to fill the vacancy. A written
acceptance of office shall be filed by the successor Remarketing Agent in the manner set
forth in Section 701(a) hereof. Any successor Remarketing Agent shall be a member of the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., having a capitalization of at least
$50,000,000 (or, alternatively, maintaining a line of credit from a commercial bank having a
capitalization of at least $25,000,000) an be authorized by law to perform all of the duties
imposed on it under this Resolution.
Section 703.   General Responsibilities of the Remarketing Agent.
(a) The Remarketing Agent shall perform the duties and obligations set
forth in this Resolution, and in particular shall:
(1) use its best efforts to solicit purchases of Bonds tendered, and
deemed tendered and Issuer Owned Bonds from investors able to purchase
municipal bonds, effectuate and process such purposes, bill and receive
payment for Bonds purchased, and perform related functions in connection
with the remarketing of Bonds hereunder;
(2) keep such books and records as shall be consistent with prudent
industry practice and which will document its action taken hereunder, and
make such books and records available for inspection by the Notice Parties
at all reasonable times; and
(3) comply at all times with all applicable state and federal securities
laws and other statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the offering and
sale of the Bonds.
(b) In performing its duties and obligations hereunder, the Remarketing
Agent shall use the same degree of care and skill as a prudent person would
exercise under the same circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs.
The Remarketing Agent shall not be liable in connection with the performance of
its duties hereunder except for its own willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad
faith.
(c) The Remarketing Agent may deal in Bonds and with the Issuer to the
same extent and with the same effect as provided with respect to the
Transfer/Tender Agent in this Resolution.


113




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(d) The Notice Parties shall each cooperate to cause the necessary arrangements to be made and thereafter continued whereby Bonds prepared, executed,
authenticated and issued hereunder shall be made available to the Remarketing
Agent to the extent necessary for delivery pursuant to Section 704 hereof, and to
otherwise enable the Remarketing Agent to carry out its duties hereunder.
Section 704.    Remarketing and Sale of Bonds.
(a) With respect to all Issuer Owned Bonds (subject to Section 312 hereof)
and all Bonds subject to purchase on a Purchase Date, the Remarketing Agent
shall offer for sale and use its best efforts to sell all such Bonds at a price equal to
the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, and with an interest
rate determined by the Remarketing Agent as provided in Section 203; provided,
that Issuer Owned Bonds, may, with the prior consent of the Issuer, be remarketed at a price higher or lower than par plus accrued interest. The Remarketing
Agent shall first remarket Bonds registered in the name of holders other than the
Issuer prior to remarketing Issuer Owned Bonds.
(b) The Remarketing Agent shall not be required to offer for sale or sell
any Bonds upon the occurrence and continuation of any Event of Default. The
Transfer/Tender Agent shall notify the Remarketing Agent promptly of any
Event of Default and the Remarketing Agent may rely upon such notice absent
manifest error in it. Any Bond purchased pursuant to Sections 306, 307 or 308
hereof during the period following notice of a change in the interest rate determination method pursuant to Section 203(d) hereof or a notice of redemption pursuant to Section 301 hereof shall not be remarketed except to a purchaser who is
provided with a notice to the same effect as the notice to be given Bondholders
pursuant to Section 203(d) hereof or Section 301 hereof, as the case may be.
(c) The proceeds of sale of any Bonds other than Issuer Owned Bonds sold
by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to Section 704(a) hereof shall be transferred
by or at the direction of the Remarketing Agent by wire transfer in immediately
available funds to the Transfer/Tender Agent at the times and otherwise as
provided herein, for application in accordance with this Resolution. The proceeds
of the remarketing of Issuer Owned Bonds shall be transferred by or at the direction of the Remarketing Agent to the Issuer in immediately available funds on the
date of remarketing in the manner as shall be specified by the Issuer to the
Remarketing Agent.
ARTICLE VIII
THE TRANSFER/TENDER AGENT
Section 801.    Appointment of Transfer/Tender Agent.
(a) The initial Transfer/Tender Agent shall be designated by an Authorized
Officer prior to the sale of the Bonds. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall designate
in writing to the Issuer its principal office and signify its acceptance of the duties
and obligations imposed upon it hereunder by a written instrument of acceptance
delivered to the Issuer. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall also be a copaying
agent, coregistrar and coauthentication agent hereunder with respect to the
Bonds. By such acceptance, the Transfer/Tender Agent will agree, particularly:
(i) to hold all Bonds delivered to it for purchase hereunder in trust as
agent and bailee of, and in escrow for the benefit of, the respective Owners
which have so delivered such Bonds, until moneys representing the
Purchase Price of such Bonds shall have been delivered to or for the account
of or to the order of such Owners;


114




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(ii) to act as attorney-in-fact on behalf of Owners of Undelivered
Bonds and hold the Purchase Price of such Undelivered Bonds for the
account of such Owners until the surrender of such Undelivered Bonds as
provided in Section 310 of this Resolution;
(iii) to hold all moneys delivered to it hereunder for the purchase of
Bonds in the Bond Purchase Fund in trust as agent and bailee of, and in
escrow for the benefit of, the person or entity which shall have so delivered
such moneys, until the Bonds purchased with such moneys have been delivered to or for the account of such person or entity;
(iv) to perform all duties of the Transfer/Tender Agent with respect
to Tender Notices, other notices, the tender and purchase of Bonds and the
deposit, holding and payment of funds as specified in this Resolution; and
(v) to keep such books and records as shall be consistent with prudent
industry practice, and make such books and records available for inspection
by the Notice Parties at all reasonable times.
(b) Liability of Transfer/Tender Agent. The Transfer/Tender Agent may
not be relieved from liability for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct
except that:
(i) the Transfer/Tender Agent need perform only those duties that are
specifically set forth in this Resolution to be performed by it as the
Transfer/Tender Agent and no others;
(ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Transfer/Tender Agent
may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness
of the opinions expressed upon certificates or opinions furnished to the
Transfer/Tender Agent and conforming to the requirements of this Resolution, however, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall examine the certificates and
opinions to determine whether they conform to the requirements of this
Resolution;
(iii) the Transfer/Tender Agent shall not be liable for any error of
judgment made in good faith by an officer of the Transfer/Tender Agent,
unless it is proved that the Transfer/Tender Agent was grossly negligent in
ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(iv) no provision of this Resolution shall require the Transfer/Tender
Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of
any of its rights or powers; and
(v) the Transfer/Tender Agent shall not be liable for interest on any
cash held by it except as the Transfer/Tender Agent may agree in writing
with the Issuer or as may be provided in this Resolution.
Every provision of this Resolution that in any way relates to the Transfer/Tender
Agent is subject to all the paragraphs of this Section.
(c)      (i) Rights of Transfer/Tender Agent. Subject to the foregoing Section, the
Transfer/Tender Agent may rely on any document believed by it to be genuine
and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Transfer/Tender
Agent need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(ii) Before the Transfer/Tender Agent acts or refrains from acting, it
may require a certificate of an appropriate officer or officers of the Issuer or
an opinion of counsel. The Transfer/Tender Agent shall not be liable for
any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the certificate or opinion of counsel.


115




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(iii) The Transfer/Tender Agent may act through agents and shall not
be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with
reasonable care and with the consent of the Issuer, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld.
(d) Transfer/Tender Agent's Disclaimer. The Transfer/Tender Agent makes
no representation as to the validity or adequacy of the Bonds, and it shall not be
accountable for the use of the proceeds from the Bonds, and it shall not be
responsible for any statement in the Bonds other than its certificate of
authentication.
(e) Compensation and Indemnity of Transfer/Tender Agent. For acting
under this Resolution, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be entitled to receive
from the Issuer payment of reasonable fees for its services and reimbursement of
advances, counsel fees and expenses and other expenses reasonably and necessarily made or incurred by the Transfer/Tender Agent in connection with its services
under this Resolution.
To the extent permitted by law, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be indemnified for, and be saved harmless by the Issuer from Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues against, any loss, liability or damages incurred without gross negligence
or willful misconduct on its part arising out of or in connection with the exercise
or performance of its powers and duties hereunder, and such indemnification
shall include the costs and expenses of defending the Transfer/Tender Agent
against any claim or liability in the premises.
(f) Transfer/Tender Agent as Creditor. The Transfer/Tender Agent may
become a creditor, directly or indirectly, of the Issuer, make any loan or loans
thereto, hold any form of indebtedness thereof (including the Bonds), own, accept
or negotiate any drafts, bills of exchange, acceptances or obligations thereof,
make disbursements thereof and enter into any commercial or business arrangement therewith without limitation, all without any liability for any real or apparent conflict of interest by reason of any such dealings.
(g) The Notice Parties shall each cooperate to cause the necessary arrangements to be made and to be thereafter continued whereby funds from the sources
specified herein will be made available for the purchase of Bonds presented at the
principal corporate trust office of the Transfer/Tender Agent, and otherwise to
enable the Transfer/Tender Agent to carry out its duties hereunder.
(h) The Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing Agent, if different,
shall cooperate to the extent necessary to permit the preparation, execution,
issuance, authentication and delivery by the Transfer/Tender Agent of replacement Bonds in connection with the tender and remarketing of Bonds hereunder.
(i) The Issuer acknowledges that, in carrying out its responsibilities
hereunder, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall be acting solely for the benefit of and
as agent for the Owners from time to time of the Bonds. No delivery of Bonds to
the Transfer/Tender Agent or any agent of the Transfer/Tender Agent or
purchase of Bonds by the Transfer/Tender Agent shall constitute a redemption of
the Bonds or any extinguishment of the debt evidenced thereby.
Section 802.    Delivery of Purchased Bonds - Preparation and Delivery of
Replacement Bonds.
(a) The Transfer/Tender Agent shall authenticate, register and deliver to
the person designated in writing by the Remarketing Agent as the purchaser of
the remarketed Bonds, or to the Issuer or its nominee with respect to Issuer
Owned Bonds, a new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denominations in an
aggregate principal amount equal to the Bonds tendered or deemed to be
tendered, as directed in writing by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the
Remarketing Agreement or by the Issuer with respect to Bonds purchased by the
Issuer.


116




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(b) Subject to the laws of escheat, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall hold
moneys representing the Purchase Price, in trust in the Bond Purchase Fund,
without liability for interest thereon, for the benefit of the Owners of Undelivered
Bonds.
Section 803.    Resignation: Removal: Qualification of Successor Transfer/
Tender Agent. The Transfer/Tender Agent may resign and be discharged of the duties and
obligations created by this Resolution by giving at least sixty (60) days' notice by mail to the
Notlce Parties. The Transfer/Tender Agent may be removed at any time by an instrument
signed by the Issuer, filed with the Noetice arties. A successor Transfer/Tender Agent shall
be appointed by the Issuer and shall be a corporation duly organized under the laws of the
United States of America or any state or territory thereof having a combined capital stock,
surplus and undivided profits of at least Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), authorized by
law to perform all of the duties imp d posed upon it by this Resolution, having an office in New
York, New York and having a rating (or being a bank comprising at least 51% of the assets of
a bank holding company having a rating) from Moody's of Baa/P3 or higher. No removal or
resignation will be effective until a successor has delivered an acceptance of its appointment
to the Issuer.
ARTICLE IX
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS
Section 901.    Additional Parity Obligations. The Issuer reserves the right to
issue additional Parity Obligations as Fixed Rate Bonds or Variable Rate Bonds for any
authorized purpose relating to the Program having equal standing and priority of lien
against the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and moneys in the Revenue Fund with the
Bonds and the Prior Bonds, provided that the Issuer by the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University certifies
that the average of Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues for the two most recently completed
Fiscal Years for which the audited financial reports have been completed (the latest of which
shall have ended within 18 months prior to the issuance of the proposed additional Parity
Obligations), are equal to or greater than 200% of the maximum future Annual Debt Service
on the Bonds, the Prior Bonds any previously issued additional Parity Obligations secured on
a parity basis with the Bonds and the additional Parity Obligations proposed to be issued;
provided, further, however, that additional Parity Obligations (in any form or designation)
may be issued to evidence the Issuer's reimbursement obligations under a Credit Support
Instrument securing any Parity Obligations which were issued in compliance with the
foregoing tests.
In addition, without meeting any of the foregoing tests, the Issuer may issue additional
Parity Obligations to refund part or all of any Prior Bonds, Bonds or additional Parity
Obligations so long as the maximum Annual Debt Service after issuance of such additional
Parity Obligations shall not exceed the maximum Annual Debt Service immediately prior to
the issuance by more than 10%.
Any issue of additional Parity Obligations shall be secured by a pledge of Adjusted
Gross Athletic Revenues and moneys in the Revenue Fund equal, on a parity basis with, the
pledge hereunder, may be issued under a supplement to this Resolution or a separate resolution, indenture or other instrument, or may have a reserve fund established to secure such
additional Parity Obligations (which may be in cash or in the form of a credit facility), may
be payable from a bond fund established therefor (which shall be distinct from the Bond
Fund in which the holders of such additional Parity Obligations shall have no claim), and
may be secured by a Credit Support Instrument in each case in which holders of the Bonds,
Prior Bonds and additional Parity Obligations therefore or thereafter issued shall have no
claim. Except for the pledge of Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and moneys in the
Revenue Fund, which shall be shared by all Bondholders, an individual series of additional
Parity Obligations may be secured by rights or property different or distinct from that which
secures the Bonds, and Prior Bonds and an additional Parity Obligations.
Section 902.    Issuance of Subordinate Obligations.     The Issuer may issue
Subordinate Obligations for any lawful purpose of the Issuer related to the Program, so long
as the principal of and interest on such Subordinate Obligations is subordinate to the
payment of the Prior Bonds, the Bonds and Parity Obligations. The resolution, indenture
oan agreement, or other document pursuant to which Subordinate Obligations are issued


117




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


shall provide that no debt service for any Subordinate Obligations shall be paid or funded
from Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues during any period in which all amounts then
required to be paid or funded with respect to the debt service on the Bonds and Parity
Obligations have not been so paid or funded.
ARTICLE X
DEFEASANCE
If the Bonds shall have become due and payable in accordance with their terms or
otherwise as provided in this Resolution or are to be paid at their maturity or, if to be
redeemed prior to maturity shall have been duly called for redemption or irrevocable instructions to call the Bonds for redemption shall have been given to the Transfer/Tender Agent by
the Issuer and the whole amount of the principal and the interest (unpaid interest on Bonds
bearing interest at an Adjusted Rate for any period prior to maturity or the specified
redemption date for which the interest rate is not known being computed at an assumed rate
of 25%) and the premium, if any, so due and payable upon all of the Bonds then Outstanding
shall be paid or sufficient cash, or non-callable Government Obligations the principal of and
the interest on which, when due and payable, will provide sufficient moneys therefor (and, in
the case of Bonds bearing interest at an Adjusted Rate will provide funds sufficient to pay
the Purchase Price of al~ such Bonds on the first or any subsequent potential Purchase
Date), shall be held by the Transfer/Tender Agent or other escrow agent in trust for the
benefit of the Bondholders for such purpose under the provisions of this Resolution, and
sufficient funds shall also have been provided for paying all other obligations payable
hereunder by the Issuer (including the payment of or provision for payment to the
Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing Agent of all sums of money due or to become
due according to the provisions hereof), then and in that case the right, title and interest of
the Bondholders and Transfer/Tender Agent hereunder shall thereupon cease terminate and
become void, and the Transfer/Tender Agent shall turn over to the Issuer alf the remaining
property held by it under this Resolution, and all balances remaining in all other funds and
accounts created by this Resolution, other than money held for the redemption or payment
of the Bonds or the Purchase Price thereof. Otherwise, this Resolution shall be, continue
and remain in full force and effect. In the event cash or Government Obligations shall be
deposited with and held by the Transfer/Tender Agent as hereinabove provided, the applicable provisions of this Resolution pertaining to the payment of the principal, interest, redemption premium, if any, and Purchase Price, of and on the Bonds issued under this Resolution,
to registration and transfers of Bonds, and to redemption of Bonds (including the provisions
respecting reductions in the amounts of mandatory sinking account redemptions) shall be
continued in force until such Bonds and other obligations have been fully pai
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which there has been deposited in trust with the
Transfer/Tender Agent or any escrow agent cash or non-callable Government Obligations
the principal of and interest on which will provide sufficient funds to pay all principal of and
interest (as provided in the first paragraph of this Article X) and redemption premium, if
any, on said Bonds to maturity or earlier specified redemption date (notice of redemption
have been duly given or irrevocable instruction to give such notice having been given to the
Transfer/Tender Agent) and in the case of Bonds bearing interest at an Adjusted Rate sufficient to pay the Purchase Price of such Bonds on the first or any subsequent potential
Purchase Date, shall no longer be deemed Outstanding under the Resolution, and the
holders thereof shall have rights solely against the funds so deposited in trust for the
payment of principal, interest, premium, if any, and Purchase Price with respect thereto.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer/Tender Agent or other
escrow agent pursuant to this Article shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when
due, of the obligations payable therewith, provided, however, that any moneys so held which
are determined in a certificate filed by the Issuer with the Transfer/Tender Agent or other
escrow agent (if any) (together with such supporting letters or opinions of independent
consultants, auditors or attorneys as the Transfer/Tender Agent or other escrow agent may
reasonably require) to be excess funds not required to pay principal interest, premium or
Purchase Price of the Bonds shall, at the direction of the Issuer, be released from the escrow
and paid to the Issuer.


118




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


ARTICLE XI
FURTHER COVENANTS AND
LIMITATION ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The Issuer covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as follows:
Section 1101.   Operation and Maintenance of the Program.           The Issuer
covenants that it will at all times when Bonds are outstanding use its best efforts to operate
the Program on a self-liquidating basis in such a manner so that sufficient Adjusted Gross
Athletic Revenues will be generated, together with other available funds, to pay principal
and interest on the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and additional Parity Obligations when due and
all Operating Costs, and shall maintain the facilities used in the Program in a sufficient
manner to allow its operation in accordance with this sentence.
Section 1102. Budget for Operation of the Program. The Issuer hereby
covenants to annually establish a budget for the operation of the Program for each Fiscal
Year sufficient to provide Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues equal to in each Fiscal Year
commencing after the delivery of the Bonds to and including the Fiscal Year in which the
last payment of principal on the Bonds is to be paid at least t 200% of that Fiscal Year's debt
service requirements on the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and additional Parity Obligations
(excluding debt service scheduled to be paid from capitalized interest or reserves). The
Issuer further covenants to establish and maintain, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding such admission fees as from time to time may be necessary to operate the Program, in
such a manner as to provide sufficient Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, together with
other available funds, to pay the principal and interest on the Bonds, the Prior Bonds and
additional Parity Obligations, and all Operating Costs, and to meet the budget requirements
set forth above.
Section 1103. Covenant not to Mortgage or Encumber. The Issuer hereby
covenants that except as specifically permitted hereby, it will not mortgage, create or allow
the creation of a lien on, or otherwise encumber the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, so
long as any Bonds are outstanding, except as specifically provided herein.
Section 1104.   Insurance on Program Facilities. Issuer covenants and agrees
that it will procure and maintain insurance or self-insurance programs with respect to the
facilities and operations of the Program  substantially similar to those customarily
maintained for like facilities, but only to the extent such insurance is reasonably available in
the insurance market of the United States.
Insurance required above may be evidenced by inclusion of the facilities of the Program
in and under a blanket policy covering the facilities of the Program and other properties of
the Issuer, or by umbrella coverage. The Issuer ma adopt alternative or supplemental risk
management programs which the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the University determines to be reasonable and which shall not, in the opinion of such
officer, have a material adverse impact on the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, including,
without limitation, the right: to self-insure in whole or in part; to organize, either solely or
in connection with other institutions or organizations, captive insurance companies; to
participate in programs of captive insurance companies organized by others; to establish a
self-insurance trust fund; to participate in mutual or other cooperative insurance or other
risk management programs with other institutions or organizations; to participate in or
enter into agreements with local, state or federal governments in order to achieve such
insurance; or to participate in other alternative risk management programs.
Section 1105. Audits and Records. The Issuer shall keep and maintain accurate
books and records relating to the collection of Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and the
payment of Operating Costs and the payments into the Revenue Fund and the Bond Fund,
which said books and records shall be open for inspection by the Transfer Agent and any
holder of the Bonds at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited
annually by a certified public accountant (which audit may be performed as part of the
general audit of the University's funds).
Section 1106.   Performance of Covenants: Authority. The Issuer shall faithfully perform all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the
Resolution and in any Bond executed and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of
the Issuer pertaining thereto. The Issuer is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws
of the State of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to pledge Adjusted


119




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Gross Athletic Revenues in the manner and to the extent herein set forth, and to construct
and equip the Project as contemplated by this Resolution; all action on its part relating to
the adoption of the Resolution and the issuance, execution and delivery of any Bonds has
been or will be duly and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds
in the hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited
obligations of the Issuer according to their terms.
Section 1107.   Continuine Disclosure. To the extent deemed necessary or appropriate by an Authorized Officer in connection with the offer or delivery of the Bonds such
Authorized Officer may, for and of behalf of the Issuer, execute and deliver a Disclosure
Undertaking for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the Bonds. Such Undertaking, if delivered, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, but the terms of
Exhibit B are subject to completion and modification prior to the delivery of the Bonds by
the Authorized Officer executing the Undertaking. After delivery of the Bonds, the Undertaking may be modified or amended as provided therein.
ARTICLE XII
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 1201.   Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders.
The Issuer may without the consent of the Bondholders adopt resolutions supplemental to
the Resolution as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof and which
in the good faith judgment of the Issuer, are not materially adverse to the interest of the
holder of the Bonds, for any one or more of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the pledge of the Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues or to grant or pledge to the Bondholders any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the Issuer for the
purpose of further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of
Parity Obligations by the Issuer;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Resolution;
(f) To amend or subtract from or make substitutions for the Project.
Section 1202.   Supplemental Resolutions Re        lg Consent of Bondholders.
Exclusive of supplemental resolutions covered by Section 1201 for which consent of
Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than 51% in the aggregate principal
amount of the Bonds outstanding shall have the right to consent to the adoption by the
Issuer of such other supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary
and desirable by the Issuer; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section shall
permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the maturity of the principal of or
the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount or
Purchase Price of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority of
any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate
principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such supplemental or amendatory
resolution.
If the Issuer shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the
Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution
to be mailed to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the
Issuer kept by the Transfer/Tender Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of
the proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are
on file at the Treasurer's Office of the University for inspection by all Bondholders. If
within six months following the publication of such notice, the holders of not less than 51%
in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding at the time of the mailing of such
notice have consented in writing to the adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in


120




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


accordance therewith. Holders of Bonds of denominations greater than the minimum
authorized denominations may vote separately with respect to each minimum authorized
denomination.
ARTICLE XIII
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
If the Issuer shall fail to pay any installment of principal or interest on any Bond when
due, or shall fail to pay the Purchase Price of any Bond required hereby to be purchased by
the Issuer on any Tender Date, or, if the Issuer shall fail to comply with any other covenant
or requirement on its part hereunder (other than the requirements of Section 1107) and
such failure shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof has been given to
the Issuer by the holders of not less than twenty-five percent (25%) aggregate principal
amount of Bonds outstanding, such failure shall constitute an "Event of Default" hereunder.
Upon e ccece the occurrence of an ent of Default, te holder of any Bond with respect to which
the Event of Default has occurred may, in addition to any other remedies available in law or
equity, bring action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction upon the Bond and to enforce the
obligation of the Issuer thereunder and hereunder.
ARTICLE XIV
SALE OF BONDS AND
PREPARATION OF OFFICIAL STATEMENT
Section 1401.   Arrangements for Sale of Bonds. The Bonds shall be sold by the
Issuer to the Underwriter designated by an Authorized Officer, pursuant to the Bond
Purchase Agreement, at a purchase price to be determined by an Authorized Officer (but the
underwriter's discount, as opposed to any original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of
the principal amount of the Bonds), and otherwise in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Resolution.
Section 1402.   Approval of Official Statement. Preliminarv Official Statement. Bond Purchase Agreement and Remarketing Agreement. The Authorized
Officers, or either of them, are hereby authorized to cause to be prepared a Preliminary
Official Statement, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer an Official Statement,
the Bond Purchase Agreement, and the Remarketing Agreement, each relating to the Bonds.
The distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with applicable
laws by the Purchaser, in connection with the marketing of the Bonds, is hereby approved
ratified and confirmed, and the distribution and use of the Official Statement in accordance
with applicable laws by the Purchaser, in connection with the marketing of the Bonds, is
hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1403.   Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution shall constitute a contract between the Issuer and Bondholders to the equal and ratable
benefit and protection of each Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no material
change, variation, or alteration of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in
accordance with its terms.
Section 1404.   Other Documentation. The Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University, the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, the Associate Vice President and Treasurer of the University, the Secretary of the
University, and each of such persons and any other appropriate officers or representatives of
the Issuer or the Universit is authorized to execute and deliver all instruments and
documents for and on behalf of the Issuer required by this Resolution, the Bond Purchase
Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection
with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds and the acquisition, construction and equipping of the Project as contemplated hereby.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds and except as otherwise specifically provided
herein, all actions permitted or required by tle Issuer may be made or undertaen by an
Authorized Officer or any other duly authorized representative of the Issuer or the University. All determinations of Bond terms required to be made by an Authorized Officer shall
be made by him within the ranges or other limitations set forth herein.


121




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


ARTICLE XV
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1501.   Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of
the Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
ineffective for any reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1502.   Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference
and shall not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1503.   Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings
of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1504.   Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon
its adoption.
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF BONDS
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust
Company, a New York corporation ("DTC") to the issuer or its agent for registration of
transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede
& Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and
any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity s reuested by an authorized
representative of DTC) ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR
1VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANYPERSONLI WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
VARIABLE RATE DEMAND INTERCOLLEGIATE
ATHLETIC REVENUE BOND, SERIES 1995
No. R1 $
Date of
Interest         Maturity            Original
Rate              Date              Issue                CUSIP
VARIABLE
REGISTERED OWNER: CEDE & CO.
PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:
The Regents of the University of Michigan a body corporate created by and existing
under the constitution of the state of Michigan (hereinafter sometimes called the "Issuer")
for value received, promises to pay to the Registered Owner specified above, or registered
assigns the principal amount specified above on the Maturity Date specified above, unless
prepaid prior thereto as hereinafter provided, upon the presentation and surrender hereof at
the principal corporate trust office of                                       or


122




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


its successor (the "Transfer/Tender Agent') and to pay by check mailed to the Registered
Owner as of the Record Date (hereinafter defined) at the registered address, or, under the
conditions specified in the Indenture, by wire transfer, interest on such principal sum from
the date hereof or such later date to which interest on the Bond in exchange for which this
Bond is issued has been paid until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly
provided for, at the interest rates and on the dates set forth herein. Both principal and
interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America.
In any case where the date of maturity or interest on or principal of the Bonds or the
date fixed for redemption of any Bonds is not a Business Day (hereinafter defined), the
payment of interest or principal shall be made on the next such succeeding Business Day,
with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for
redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date of maturity or date
fixed for redemption.
This Bond is one of an issue of Bonds (the "Bonds') of even date, aggregating the
principal sum of $               all issued pursuant to a Resolution (the Resolution")
adopted by the Issuer on, 1995. This Bond and the series of which it is one
are of equal standing and priority of lien as to the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and
moneys in the Revenue Fund (each as defined in the Resolution) and are equally secured
thereby with the Issuer's Prior Bonds (as defined in the Resolution). The proceeds of the
Bonds will be utilized by the Issuer, together with other available funds of the Issuer, for the
purpose of paying the costs of acquiring, constructing and equipping certain capital projects
of the Issuer's Athletic Program and paying certain costs incurred in connection with the
issuance and sale of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested in the Issuer by
law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
This Bond is a limited and not general obligation of the Issuer and is payable solely
from the sources specified in the Resolution. This Bond is not a debt or obligation of the
state of Michigan or any political subdivision thereof.
Except as hereinafter provided with respect to purchases and remarketing of Bonds
and with respect to delivery of Issuer Owned Bonds (hereinafter defined), each Bond shall be
transferable only upon the books of the Issuer, by the Registered Owner thereof in person or
by his attorney duly authorized in writing, upon surrender thereof at the principal corporate
trust office of the Transfer/Tender Agent together with written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent duly executed by the Registered Owner or a duly
authorized attorney. Upon the transfer of any Bond, the Transfer/Tender Agent shall issue
in the name of the transferee and cause to be authenticated a new Bond or Bonds of the
same aggregate principal amount as the surrendered Bonds. The Transfer/Tender Agent
shall make a charge Tor such transfer or exchange sufficient to pay for any tax or other
governmental fee or charge required to be paid with respect to such transfer or exchange,
but all other costs of making such transfer or exchange shall be borne by the Issuer. Subject
to the provisions of the Resolution relating to the Record Date, the Issuer, the
Transfer/Tender Agent and the Remarketing Agent (as defined in the Resolution) may deem
and treat the person in whose name anyBond shall be registered upon the books of the
Issuer as the absolute owner of such Bond, whether such Bond shall be overdue or not, for
the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal and premium, if any, and
interest on and Purchase Price (hereinafter defined) of such Bond and for all other purposes,
including the giving or receipt of notices, consents or directions as provided in the Resolution, and all such payments so made to any such Registered Owner or upon his order shall be
valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability upon such Bond to the extent of the
sum or sums so paid and neither the Issuer, the Transfer/Tender Agent nor the Remarketing
Agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
The Bonds, including this bond, Prior Bonds and Parity Obligations (defined in the
Resolution), are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of the Adjusted Gross
Athletic Revenues (defined in the Resolution) collected by the Issuer and the funds from
time to time on deposit in the Revenue Fund (as defined in the Resolution). The Bonds are
also served by the funds from time to time on deposit in the Bond Fund (defined in the
Resolution). In addition the Issuer has covenanted, to the extent necessary, to pay the
principal of and interest on the Bonds from Legally Available Funds, (as defined in the
Resolution). Except for the foregoing, no recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds or any claim based thereon against the
state of Michigan, the Issuer or against any officer member or agent thereof or any officer of
the University of Michigan, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor shall these obligations become a lien secured by any property, real, personal, or mixed, of the state of


123




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Michigan or the Issuer, other than the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and funds from
time to t ime on deposit in the Revenue Fund and Bond Fund, as more fully described in the
Resolution. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the issuance hereof,
the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the funds
from which and the conditions under which this Bond is payable, the general covenants and
provisions pursuant to which this Bond is issued, the rights of the holders of Bonds, and the
right of the Issuer to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority of lien as to
the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues wi the Bonds ad the Prior Bonds a e o ns, and the terms
and conditions under which this Bond and the series of Bonds of which this is one, or any
part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the above
described Resolution. Copies of the Resolution are on file at the Treasureasr's Office of the
Issuer.
Any term used herein as a defined term but not defined herein shall be defined as in
the Resolution.
Prior to the Fixed Rate Conversion Date, the interest rate on all Bonds shall be determined by the Remarketing Agent (as defined in the Resolution), daily, weekly, quarterly or
long term (each an "Adjusted Rate") as provided in the Resolution and shall be the minimum
rate necessary (as determined by the Remarketing Agent taking into account prevailing
market conditions) for the Remarketing Agent to sell such Bonds on the day the rate is set at
their principal amount plus accrued interest. If for any reason the Remarketing Agent does
not set an Adjusted Rate for the Bonds or a court holds that the Adjusted Rate set for the
Bonds for any day is invalid or unenforceable, the Adjusted Rate shall be set pursuant to the
provisions of the Resolution. Interest accrued on this Bond shall be payable on each Interest
Payment Date (as hereinafter defined). Interest on the Bonds shall initially be payable at a
Daily Rate. The interest rate determination method thereafter may be changed with respect
to the Bonds as described in the Resolution. A change in the interest rate determination
method will result in a mandatory purchase of the Bonds, subject to the right of the holders
to waive the mandatory purchase upon meeting the conditions therefor set forth in the
Resolution. When a change in the interest rate determination method for the Bonds is to be
made, the Transfer/Tender Agent is required to notify Bondholders as provided in the
Resolution.
At the option of the Issuer, subject to the requirements of the Resolution, the Adjusted
Rate feature of the Bonds ma be permanently terminated and in such event the Bonds shall
thereafter bear interest at a Fixed Rate determined in the manner provided in the Resolution. Prior to the date the Bonds will begin to bear interest at a Fixed Rate (the "Fixed Rate
Conversion Date"), the Transfer/Tender Agent is required to notify all Bondholders as
provided in the Resolution. All Bonds will be subject to mandatory purchase on the Fixed
Rate Conversion Date.
When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate, a Weekly Rate, or a Quarterly
Rate, interest on the Bonds shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days
elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as appropriate. When interest on the Bonds is
payable at a Long Term Rate or a Fixed Rate, interest shall be computed on the basis of a
60day year of twelve 30day months. In no event shall the interest on the Bonds exceed the
lesser of the maximum interest rate permitted by law or 25% per annum.
"Business Day" means each weekday on which commercial banking institutions in
the state of Michigan, the state of New York are not required or authorized by law or executive order to remain closed, and on which The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is not closed.
"Interest Payment Date" means (i) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily
Rate or a Weekly Rate in the thencurrent Interest Period, the fifth Business Day of the next
month, (ii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Quarterly Rate in the then-current
Interest Period, the first Business Day of each month, (iii) with respect to Bonds bearing
interest at a Long Term Rate or Fixed Rate, each June 1 and December 1, provided, that the
first Interest Payment Date during any Long Term Rate Period or the Fixed Rate Period
shall be the first June 1 or December 1 at least 90 days after the Implementation Date or the
Fixed Rate Conversion Date, as the case may be, and (iv) the Fixed Rate Conversion Date.
"Interest Period" means (i) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily Rate or
a Weekly Rate, a calendar month or if the next succeeding Interest Period will be a Fixed
Rate Period, a Long Term Rate Period or a Quarterly Rate Period, the first day of the


124




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


calendar month to the day preceding the commencement of the next succeeding Interest
Period, both inclusive; provided, however, that the initial Interest Period for the Bonds shall
commence on the Original Issue Date and end on the last day of such calendar month,
(ii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Quarterly Rate, the period commencing on an
Interest Payment Date and en      on the day immediately preeding the inext nterest
Payment Date, both inclusive; provided, however, that the initial Interest Period in each
Quarterly Rate Period shall commence on the date such Quarterly Rate Period commences
and end on the day immediately preceding the first Interest Payment Date in such Quarterly
Rate Period, (iii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate, the period
commencing on an Interest Payment Date and ending on the day immediately preceding the
next Interest Payment Date, both inclusive; provided however that the initial Interest
Period in each Long Term Rate Period shall commence on the  e tesuch Long Term Rate
Period commences and ends on the day immediately preceding the first Interest Payment
Date in such Long Term Rate Period, and (iv) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a
Fixed Rate, the period commencing on an Interest Payment Date and ending on the day
immediately preceding the next Interest Payment Date, both inclusive; provided however,
that the initial Interest Period in each Fixed Rate Period shall commence on the date such
Fixed Rate Period commences and end on the day immediately preceding the first Interest
Payment Date in such Fixed Rate Period.
"Issuer Owned Bonds" means each Bond registered in the name of the Issuer or its
nominee as a result of the purchase of such Bonds by the Issuer upon tender thereof, as
provided in the Resolution.
"Purchase Price" means an amount equal to the principal amount of any Bond
tendered or deemed tendered pursuant to the Resolution, plus accrued and unpaid interest
thereon, if any, to the Purchase Date; provided, however, that (i) the interest component
may be adjusted for Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term Rate as described in the Resolution, and (ii) in the event the Purchase Date falls after the Record Date but prior to the next
succeeding Interest Payment Date the interest component of the Purchase Price shall be
reduced by the amount of interest to be paid on the Interest Payment Date to the Holder of
record as of the Record Date.
"Put" means the right of the Owner to require, or the act of requiring, the Transfer/
Transfer/Tender Agent to purchase a Bond (other than an Issuer Owned Bond) at the
Owner's option as provided in the Resolution.
"Record Date" means (i) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Daily Rate, a
Weekly Rate or a Quarterly Rate, the last Business Day prior to the first day of the next
succeeding Interest Period, and (ii) with respect to Bonds bearing interest at a Long Term
Rate or a Fixed Rate, each May 15 and November 15.
PART I - REDEMPTION OF BONDS
A.Terms of Redemption. The Bonds shall be subject to redemption as follows:
(1) Optional Redemption During Daily Rate, Weekly Rate or
Quarterly Rate. When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate, a
Weekly Rate, or a Quarterly Rate, Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the
Issuer in whole or in part at any time, at the principal amount thereof plus
accrued interest, if any, without premium.
(2) Optional Redemption of Bonds at a Premium During Long
Term Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period. Bonds which are payable at a Long
Term Rate or a Fixed Rate may be redeemed at the option of the Issuer in whole
or in part as provided in this subsection.
[If the Long Term Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period, whichever is applicable, is greater than two years, the Bonds shall be redeemable at 100% of their
principal amount in the final year, 1001/2% during the nexttolast year, and
nonredeemable prior to that. If the Long Term Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period,
whichever is applicable, is equal to or less than two years, the Bonds shall not be
redeemable prior to the maturity or final Interest Payment Date in the Long


125




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Term Rate Mode, but shall be redeemable, at par, without premium, on the final
Interest Payment Date in the Long Term Rate Mode.]
The no-call periods and premiums described in this subsection (b) may be
revised to those set forth in a written notice of the Remarketing Agent delivered
to the Issuer prior to the Implementation Date for the applicable Bonds bearing
interest at a Long Term Rate or prior to the Fixed Rate Conversion Date for
Bonds bearing interest at a Fixed Rate, if in the opinion of the Remarketing
Agent such revisions more accurately reflect then-current market conditions.
Such notice shall be accompanied by an Opinion of Bond Counsel to the effect
that such revisions would not adversely affect the validity of the Bonds or the
exclusion of interest on the Bonds from gross income for federal income tax
purposes under the Code.
(3) Mandatory Redemption. The Bonds are required to be redeemed
annually at par plus accrued interest commencing on _,           in the
amount of the mandatory redemption requirements established pursuant to the
Resolution. The amount of Bonds required to be redeemed on each date is subject
to reduction for previously redeemed or purchased Bonds as provided in the
Resolution.
B.Selection of Bonds for Redemption. If less than all of the outstanding Bonds are
called for redemption, as herein provided, the Bonds to be redeemed shall be selected by the
Transfer/Tender Agent by lot in any manner which the Transfer/Tender Agent, in its sole
discretion, shall deem appropriate and fair, and for such purposes, the Transfer/Tender
Agent shall consider each Bond in a denomination larger than the minimum denomination
permitted by the Bonds to be separate Bonds each in the minimum denomination. In the
case of partial redemption of a Bond, a new Bond shall be issued by the Transfer/Tender
Agent in the remaining principal amount to the registered owner.
C.Notice of Redemption. Not less than 15 nor more than 60 days prior to the
redemption date (but not less than 30 days prior to the redemption date in the case of Bonds
bearing interest at a Fixed Rate) to the respective Owners of any Bond designated for
redemption at their addresses appearing on the registration book maintained by the
Transfer/Tender Agent.
D.       Effect of Redemption. Notice of redemption having been duly given as
aforesaid, and moneys for payment of the principal and premium, if any, thereof, together
with interest accrued to the redemption date on, the Bonds (or portions thereof) so called for
redemption being held by the Transfer/Tender Agent, on the redemption date designated in
such notice, the Bonds (or portions thereof) so called for redemption shall become due and
payable, interest on the Bonds so called for redemption shall cease to accrue, said Bonds (or
portions thereof) shall cease to be entitled to any benefit or security under the Resolution,
and the Owners of said Bonds shall have no rights in respect thereof except to receive
payment of said principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest.
PART II PUTS
A.       Daily Rate Puts.
When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Daily Rate, an Owner of a Bond (other than
Issuer Owned Bonds) may Put such Owner's Bond for purchase by delivering:
(1) an irrevocable written or telephonic notice to the Transfer/Tender
Agent and to the Remarketing Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on a Business
Day, of such Owner's intent to Put such Bond and stating the principal amount of
the Bond and the number of such Bond or other information as may be necessary
to specifically identify such Bond and the date (which must be a Business Day and
may be the date the notice is delivered) such Bond is to be purchased;
(2) such Bond, together with an executed assignment in blank, in form
satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent, to the principal office of the
Transfer/Tender Agent by 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Purchase Date but


126




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


any Bond for which the notice described in (1) above was given not so delivered
shall nevertheless be deemed purchased and shall thereafter be an Undelivered
Bond as provided in the Resolution; provided, that such delivery by 12:00 noon
shall be required for same day payment of the Purchase Price.
B.Weekly Rate Puts.
When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Weekly Rate, an Owner of a Bond (other
than Issuer Owned Bonds) may Put such Owner's Bond for purchase by delivering:
(1) a written, irrevocable notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent and the
Remarketing Agent by 5:00 p.m., New York time, on a Business Day, of such
Owner's intent to Put such Owner's Bond and stating the principal amount of
such Bond and the number of such Bond or other information as may be necessary to specifically identify such Bond and the date (which must be a Business
Day at least seven days after the date the notice is delivered, provided that if such
seventh day is not a Business Day, the Purchase Date may be the next preceding
Business Day) such Bond is to be purchased; and
(2) such Bond, together with an executed assignment in blank, in form
satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent, to the principal corporate trust office
of the Transfer/Tender Agent by 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Purchase
Date but any Bond not so delivered shall nevertheless be deemed purchased and
shall thereafter be an Undelivered Bond as provided in the Resolution; provided,
that such delivery by 12:00 noon shall be required for same day payment at the
Purchase Price.
C.Quarterly Rate Puts.
When interest on the Bonds is payable at a Quarterly Rate, an Owner of a Bond (other
than Issuer Owned Bonds) may Put such Owner's Bond for purchase by delivering:
(1) a written, irrevocable notice to the Transfer/Tender Agent and the
Remarketing Agent by 5:00 p.m., New York time, on a Business Day, at least six
Business Days prior to the next succeeding Implementation Date (as defined in
the Resolution), which Implementation Date shall be the Purchase Date, of such
Owner's intent to Put such Owner's Bond and stating the principal amount of
such Bond and the number of such Bond or other information as may be necessary to specifically identify such Bond; and
(2) such Bond, together with an executed assignment in blank, in form
satisfactory to the Transfer/Tender Agent, to the principal corporate trust office
of the Transfer/Tender Agent by 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Purchase
Date but any Bond not so delivered shall nevertheless be deemed purchased and
shall thereafter be an Undelivered Bond as provided in the Resolution; provided,
that such delivery by 12:00 noon shall be required for same day payment at the
Purchase Price.
D.       Mandatory Purchase of Bonds.
(1) The Bonds are subject to mandatory purchase on any of the following
dates (each a "Mandatory Purchase Date"):
(a) the effective date of any change in the method of determining the
Daily Rate, Weekly Rate or Quarterly Rate pursuant to the Resolution;
(b) With respect to each Bond bearing interest at a Long Term Rate,
on the day following the last day of each Long Term Rate Period; provided,
that if such date is not a Business Day, the Purchase Date shall be the
following Business Day, but interest shall accrue only through the last day
of the Long Term Rate Period and such purchase shall be deemed effective
on the date following the last day of the Long Term Rate Period; or
(c) the Fixed Rate Conversion Date.


127




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


(2) Notice of mandatory purchase pursuant to the preceding paragraph
shall be mailed by the Transfer/Tender Agent prior to a Mandatory Purchase
Date in accordance with the Resolution, in each case to the respective Owners of
the Bonds at their addresses maintained by the Transfer/Tender Agent. On the
specified Mandatory Purchase Date there will become due and payable on said
Bonds the Purchase Price thereof and from and after the Mandatory Purchase
Date interest thereon shall cease to accrue to the prior holder thereof, and all
Bonds (other than Bonds for which a waiver or purchase is available and has been
duly made as described below) must be surrendered on the Mandatory Purchase
Date and if not so surrendered will be deemed purchased in accordance with the
Resolution and will thereafter be an Undelivered Bond under the Resolution.
(3) Any Owner may waive a purchase of a Bond on a Mandatory Purchase
Date established pursuant to (l)(a) above, by delivery to the Transfer/Tender
Agent, on or before the sixth Business Day preceding the Mandatory Purchase
Date, the Bonds with respect to which such waiver is made together with a
written instrument of such Owner (a) directing that such Bonds not be purchased
on the Mandatory Purchase Date, (b) agreeing not to sell such Bonds prior to the
Mandatory Purchase Date, (c) agreeing not to exercise a Put applicable to such
Bonds prior to the Mandatory Purchase Date, and (d) acknowledging that such
waiver is irrevocable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no waiver may be made
with respect to any Bond that has been called for redemption.
(4) Any Bond subject to purchase shall be purchased, or deemed purchased,
on its Mandatory Purchase Date at the Purchase Price. Delivery of such Bond
(with an appropriate transfer of registration executed in blank in form satisfactory to the Transfer/ Transfer/Tender Agent) at the principal corporate trust
office of the Transfer/Tender Agent at or prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on
the Mandatory Purchase Date shall be required for same day payment of the
Purchase Price.
THE HOLDER OF THIS BOND, BY ITS PURCHASE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THIS
BOND, HEREBY IRREVOCABLY APPOINTS THE TRANSFER/TENDER AGENT AS ITS
DULY AUTHORIZED ATTORNEYINFACT FOR THE PURPOSES OF ASSIGNMENT,
ENDORSEMENT, CERTIFICATION, EXECUTION OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT THAT
THE HOLDER IS HOLDING THIS BOND FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PURCHASER OR
PURCHASERS, REGISTRATION OF TRANSFERS AND DELIVERY OF BONDS IN THE
EVENT OF A PUT OR A MANDATORY PURCHASE OF THE BOND PURSUANT TO
THE RESOLUTION. THE TRANSFER/TENDER AGENT'S POWER OF ATTORNEY
HEREUNDER IS COUPLED WITH AN INTEREST.
IN THE EVENT OF A PUT OR A MANDATORY PURCHASE PURSUANT TO THE
RESOLUTION, ANY UNDELIVERED BOND SHALL NO LONGER EVIDENCE THE
DEBT OF THE ISSUER TO THE PRIOR HOLDER, AND THE PRIOR HOLDER
THEREOF SHALL BE ENTITLED ONLY TO PAYMENT OF THE PURCHASE PRICE
FOR THE UNDELIVERED BOND FROM THE FUNDS HELD IN THE BOND PURCHASE
FUND MAINTAINED BY THE TRANSFER/TENDER AGENT.
The obligation of the Issuer to provide funds for the Purchase Price of Bonds which are
tendered for purchase or subject to Mandatory Purchase is limited to the sources provided in
the Resolution.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things
required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this
Bond have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and
manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this
Bond to be signed for it and on its behalf by the facsimile signature of the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance of the University of Michigan, all as of the Date of Original Issue. This Bond shall not be valid or become
obligatory for any purpose or be entitled to any security or benefit under the Resolution
until the Transfer/T en der Agent's or Transfer/Tender Agent's Certificate of Authentication
hereon shall have been executed by the Transfer/Tender Agent.


128




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


By


Its Executive Vice Presldent and
Chief Financial Officer


DATE OF AUTHENTICATION:
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This Bond is one of the Bonds described in the within-mentioned Resolution.


as Transfer/Tender Agent


By
Authorized Signatory
ASSIGNMENT


FOR VALUE RECEIVED the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto


(Please print or type name
and address of transferee)


the within Bond and all rights thereunder, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints
attorney to transfer the within bond on the books kept for
registration thereof, with full power of substitution in the premises.
(Signature guaranteed)


Dated:


Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an "eligible
guarantor institution" meeting the requirements
of the Transfer/Tender Agent, which requirements on and after August 24, 1992 will include
membership or participation in STAMP or such
other "signature guarantee program" as may be
determined by the Transfer/Tender Agent in
addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all
in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended.


129




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


The transfer agent will not effect transfer of this bond unless the information concerning the transferee requested below is provided.
NOTICE
the face of the within Bond in every particular, without alterations or enlargement or any
change whatever. When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his authority
to act must accompany the Bond.
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY           Name and Addresso
NUMBER OR OTHER IDENTIFYING
NUMBER OF TRANSFEREE
(insert number for first name
transferee if held by joint account)
(Include information for all joint owners if the Bond is held by joint account)
EXHIBIT B
DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING
In connection with the issuance and delivery of the $         Regents of the
University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series
1995 (the "Bonds"), authorized under a resolution (the "Resolution") adopted by the Regents
of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") on September  1995, and for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the Bonds, the Issuer Fereby undertakes and agrees as
follows:
(a) The Issuer hereby agrees, in accordance with the provisions of Rule
15c2-12 (the "Rule") promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission
(the "SEC") pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to provide or cause
to be provided to each nationally recognized municipal securities information
repository ("NRMSIR") and to the appropriate state information depository, if
any, for the State of Michigan ("SID"), in each case as designated by the SEC in
accordance with the Rule, the following annual financial information and operating data commencing with the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996.
(1)   Updates of the following tables of financial information and
operating data included in the official statement of the Issuer relating to the
Bonds (the "Official Statement").
(2)   Financial statements prepared in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles by or on behalf of the Issuer pertaining to
the Issuer and the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the
University of Michigan and audited by an individual or firm of independent
certified public accountants ("Audited Financial Statements"); provided,
however, that the Issuer may from time to time, in order to comply with
federal and State legal requirements, modify the basis upon which its financial statements are prepared. Notice of any such modification shall be
provided to (i) either each NRMSIR or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking


130




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


Board ("MSRB") and (ii) the SID, and such include a reference of the
specific federal or State law or regulation describing such accounting basis.
Such annual financial information and operating data described above are
expected to be provided directly by the Issuer, but may be provided by reference
to subsequent official statements of the Issuer filed with the MSRB.
(b) Such annual information and operating data described in (a)(1) above
and the Audited Financial Statements will each be available on or before the
180th day after the end of the fiscal year of the Issuer.
(c) The Issuer agrees to provide or cause to be provided in a timely manner
to (i) each NRMSIR or to the MSRB and (ii) the SID, if any, notice of the occurrence of any of the following events listed in (b)(5)(i)(C) of the Rule with respect
to the Bonds, if applicable, if such event is material:
(1)  principal and interest payment delinquencies
(2)  non-payment related defaults
(3)  unscheduled draws on debt service reserves reflecting
financial difficulties
(4)  unscheduled draws on credit enhancements, reflecting
financial difficulties
(5)  substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their
failure to perform
(6)  adverse  tax  opinions  or  events  affecting  the
tax-exempt status of the Bonds
(7)  modifications to rights of holders of the Bonds
(8)  bond calls
(9)  defeasances
(10) release, substitution, or sale of property securing
repayment of the Bonds
(11) rating changes
(d) The Issuer covenants that its determinations of materiality for
purposes of (c) above, will be made in conformance with federal securities laws.
(e) The Issuer agrees to provide or cause to be provided, in a timely
manner, to (i) each NRMSIR or to the MSRB and (ii) the SID, notice of a failure
by the Issuer to provide the annual financial information and operating data with
respect to the Issuer described in subsection (a) above on or prior to the dates set
forth in subsection (b) above.
(f) The Issuer reserves the right to terminate its obligation to provide
annual financial information and notices of material events, as set forth above, if
and when the Issuer no longer remains an obligated person with respect to the
Bonds within the meaning of the Rule, including upon legal defeasance of all the
Bonds.
(g) The Issuer agrees that its Undertaking pursuant to the Rule set forth
herein is intended to be for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds (including all
beneficial owners of the Bonds, as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the SEC) and shall be
enforceable by any holder or beneficial owner of the Bonds; provided that, the
right to enforce the provisions of this Undertaking shall be limited to a right to
obtain specific enforcement of the Issuer's obligations hereunder and any failure
by the Issuer to comply with the provisions of this Undertaking shall not constitute a default or an Event of Default with respect to the Bonds or under the
Resolution.
(h) The provisions of this Undertaking, including, but not limited to the
provisions relating to the accounting principles pursuant to which the Issuer's


131




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix A


financial statements are prepared, may be amended as deemed appropriate by an
Authorized Officer of the Issuer: provided, however, that any such amendment
must be adopted procedurally and substantively in a manner consistent with the
Rule, including any interpretations thereof made from time to time by the SEC,
which, to the extent applicable, are incorporated herein by reference.
(i) If a change is made to the basis on which financial statements are
prepared, the annual financial information for the year in which the change is
made shall present a comparison between the financial statements or information
prepared on the basis of the new accounting principles and those prepared on the
basis of the former accounting principles. Such comparison shall include a qualitative and, to the extent reasonably feasible, quantitative discussion of the differences in the accounting principles and the impact of the change in the accounting
principles on the presentation of the financial information.
(j) All terms not defined herein, but which are defined in the Resolution,
shall have the meanings herein assigned to them in the Resolution.
Dated:,1995
Regents of the University of Michigan
By_______
Its


132




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1995
APPPENDIX B
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF STUDENT FEE BONDS IN
THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $60,000,000 TO FINANCE PART
OF THE COST OF ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION, FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF CAPITAL PROJECTS AND RELATED COSTS, AND TO
PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS AND OTHER
MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to proerl serve
the needs of students attending The University of Michigan (the "University"), the Regents
of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") has authorized the acquisition, construction,
renovation, furnishing and equipping of certain facilities on the Ann Arbor and Dearborn
Campuses of the University and the financing of improvements at Camp Michigania, owned
by the Alumni Association of the University of Michigan (collectively, the "ProJects"), all as
described on Exhibit A attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve
the interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures of the University's funds the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue in one
or more series Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1995, with
appropriate series designation (hereinafter defined as the "Bonds"), in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Sixty Million Dollars ($60,000,000) for the purpose of paying
part of the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, furnishing and equipping the Projects,
and paying the expenses related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Projects will serve proper and appropriate pubhic
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured by a pledge of
and first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right to incur additional obligations
similarly secured, upon conditions specified in the resolutions authorizing said previously
incurred obligations, essentially as follows, to wit:
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last two
preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such additional Parity Obligations
are equal to at least 200% percent of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the proposed additional Parity Obligations are scheduled
to be outstanding."
WHEREAS, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall certify in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds, that all conditions and requirements precedent to the
issuance of the Bonds shall have been met, as shown by audit reports of the University for
each of its last two preceding fiscal years; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the
provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has full power
under its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to construct the Projects, to pay the cost of
the acquisition, construction, renovating, furnishing and equipping of the Projects by
issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge Student Fees for payment of the Bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan, as follows:


133




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following
terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the Regents of the University of Michigan Construction
and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1995, with appropriate additional series
designations, to be issued in one or more series under this Resolution in the aggregate
principal amount of not to exceed $60,000,000.
"Bond Payment Date" means any date on which interest or principal and interest is
payable on the Bonds, being April 1, and October 1 of each year beginning the first April or
October 1 occurring at least 90 days after the date of the Bonds.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Construction and Renovation
Projects, Series 1995 Student Fee Bonds Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "Holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered owner of any Bond.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1
and ending on June 30.
"Governmental Obligations" means any of the following which at the time of
investment are legal investments for the moneys proposed to be invested therein: direct
general obligations of, or obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which is
unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, or other obligations, including
defeased tax-exempt securities and maturing interests in a trusteed fund or funds composed
entirely of any of the foregoing instruments, the timely payment of which is fully secured by
the payment of principal and interest on direct general obligations of, or obligations the
payment of principal ot and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United
States of America.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received,
earned through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body
corporate having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from its ifunds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally
used by the issuer to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds, but shall not include any
funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans,
bonds or debt service on other obligations, or other purposes to the extent so pledged or
committed, or (b) the use of which would result in the Bonds herein authorized being
construed as a general obligation of the Issuer or as indebtedness of the state of Michigan
under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Outstanding" or "Bonds Outstanding" means, as of any date, all Bonds delivered
under the Resolution, except (i) Bonds theretofore acquired by the Issuer and canceled and
(ii) Bonds for which the Issuer shall have made provision for payment in accordance with
the Resolution by depositing with the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent cash or cash and
Government Obligations, the principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient
to pa the rincipal of and, premium, if any, and interest on said Bonds as the same become
due through maturity.
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations of the
Issuer secured by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, including the existing
Parity Obligations specified in Section 601 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter
issued by the Issuer from time to time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Projects" means the Projects described on Exhibit A hereto, with such adjustments
as may be made thereto pursuant to Section 502 hereof.


134




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Construction and Renovation
Projects, Series 1995 Student Fee Bonds Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time to time by the
Issuer, and collected from the students attending any campus of the University.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 305 or 308.
"Underwriter" means the underwriter or, collectively the group of underwriters,
selected by an Authorized Officer pursuant to Section 1001, or successors thereto.
"University" means the University of Michigan.
ARTICLE II
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS
Section 201. Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer, in the exercise of
its powers and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and
direction of all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section
5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Bonds for
the purposes set forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable
the Issuer to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction, renovation, furnishing and
equipping of the Projects.
ARTICLE III
THE BONDS
Section 301. Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes set
forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Sixty Million Dollars
($60,000,000) and in evidence thereof there shall be issued in one or more series, the Bonds
of the Issuer which shall be designated "Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee
Bonds, Series 1995," with appropriate additional series designation, in like aggregate principal amount.
The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Associate Vice President for Finance are each hereby designated as an "Authorized Officer," and each, singly, is
authorized to make the determinations specified herein.
The Bonds shall be issued in such aggregate principal amount, not more than
$60,000,000, as an Authorized Officer shall determine, and may be issued in one or more
series corresponding to the financing of the separate components of the Projects, or any
combination thereof, as an Authorized Officer may determine. The Bonds may be serial
bonds or term bonds, which may be subject to redemption requirements, as an Authorized
Officer shall determine. The Bonds shall mature on April 1 in the years determined by an
Authorized Officer, but not earlier then April 1, 1996 nor later than April 1, 2016. The
Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement to be
negotiated, executed and delivered by an Authorized Officer on behalf of the Issuer, and the
Underwriter, but the Underwriter's discount exclusive of original issue discount shall not
exceed 0.8% of the principal amount of the Bonds. The Bonds shall bear such rates of interest as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, but the net interest cost for the Bonds,
taking into account the rates and any discount, shall not exceed 8.00 % per annum. The
maximum annual principal and interest on the Bonds shall not exceed $6,600,000.
The Bonds shall be dated as of a date or dates to be selected by an Authorized Officer,
shall all be equally secured as hereinafter set forth, shall be issued in fully-registered form in
the denomination of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof not exceeding the principal amount


135




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


of Bonds maturing in the year of maturity of the Bond specified, and shall be numbered
consecutively from 1 upwards.
The Bonds shall bear interest payable on April 1 and October 1 of each  ear until
maturity, commencing on the first April 1 or October 1 at least 90 days after the date of the
Bonds. Subject to the third paragraph of Section 305 hereof, the principal amount of each
Bond shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America upon surrender of
the Bond at thet principal corpoate trust office of a bank or trust company designated by an
Authorized Officer (the "Transfer Agent") in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as ma be, on the respective dates of payment thereof, legal tender for the payment
of debts due the Ufnited States of America. Subject to the third paragraph of Section 305
hereof, interest on the Bonds shall be payable when due to the person or entity who is, as of
the 15th day of the month prior to each Bond Payment Date (the "Record Date") the registered holder of record b  check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to the registered
holder as ofd the hecord  atie at the registered adress or by wire transfer by the Transfer
Agent to any Bondholder of $100,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Bonds to
such wire transfer address as the Bondholder shall specify in a written notice requesting
payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. on the
fifth business day prior to the Bond Payment Date (which notice may provide that it shall
Section 302. Limited Obligation. The Bonds shall be limited obligations of the
Issuer equally and ratably and solely secured by Student Fees and any moneys in the Bond
Fund, and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the state of Michigan or a general
obligation of the Issuer.
Section 303. Execution, Authentication and Deliveray       The Bonds shall be
signed in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer by facsimile signature of its Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or its Associate Vice President for Finance printed,
lithographed or engraved thereon. No Bond shall be valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of the Transfer Agent. The Bonds, when executed and authenticated,
shall be delivered by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vie President for Finance to the purchaser thereof upon payment of the purchase price
therefor determined pursuant to Section 301 hereof. Executed blank Bonds for registration
of transfer shall be delivered to the Transfer Agent for safekeeping concurrently with the
delivery of the Bonds, and from time to time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease
to be such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, either as part of the initial delivery of
the Bonds or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be
valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The Transfer Agent's certificate of authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have
been executed by it if signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall
not be necessary that the same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the
Bonds issued hereunder.
Section 304. Redemption of Bonds, The Bonds shall be subject to optional or
mandatory redemption, or both, at the times and prices as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer; provided, however, that no redemption premium on the optional redemption of
Bonds shall exceed 3% of the principal amount being redeemed. The principal amount of
Term Bonds to be redeemed on any date shall, at the option of the Issuer, be reduced, in the
order determined by the Issuer, by the principal amount of Term Bonds of the same series
and maturity, which have been previously redeemed (other than pursuant to a previous
annual redemption requirement) or purchased or acquired b the Issuer and submitted to
the Transfer Agent for cancellation; provided that each such Bond has not theretofore been
applied as a credit against any mandatory redemption requirement. The Issuer shall give
notice to the Transfer Agent at least 45 days prior to any mandatory redemption date of the
Issuer's exercise of its option to reduce the amount of the mandatory redemption requirement on such date as herein set forth. The provisions set forth in this paragraph, including
the provisions pertaining to the reduction of mandatory redemption requirements, shall
survive the defeasance of the Bonds and this Resolution as permitted by Section 702 hereof.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days rior to the
date fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the  ond to be
redeemed at the registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer
Agent. Bonds shall be called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $5,000 shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by


136




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


dividing the denomination of the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part.
The notice of redemption for Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the
o Bond to be redeemed a new B   on or  onds in aggregate principal amount eual to the
unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holdr ther teof,
without cost to the holder. No further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for
redemption shall accrue after the date fixed for redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand with the Transfer Agent to redeem the same.
Section 305. Form of Issuance and Transfer of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be
issued in the form of fully-reistered bonds without coupons. Any Bond may be exchanged
for Bonds of other authorized denominations or transferred upon the books required to be
kept pursuant to this section by the person in whose name iis registered  n person or by
his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form
approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond or Bonds shall be surrendered for
transfer or exchange, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or cause to be executed, as
specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a new Bond or Bonds,
in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rateand maturity. The Transfer
Agent shall require the payment by the Bondholder requesting the transfer or exchange of
any tax or o ther governmental charge required to e paid with respect to the transfer or
exchange. The Transfer Agent shall not be required to make any transfer or exchange of
(except the unredeemed portion of a Bond to be redeemed in part), or any Bond within 10
days prior to the date of publication of a notice of redemption.
The Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient
books for the registration and transfer or exchange of the Bonds, which shall at all times be
open to inspection at reasonable times by the Issuer and its and its auditors or their designees; and,
upon presentation for such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under regulations as it may
prescribe, transfer or exchange or cause to be transferred or exchanged, on said books,
Bonds as hereinbefore provided.
As per the direction of the initial purchasers of the Bonds, the ownershi of the Bonds
shall be registered in the name of Cede & Co., a nominee of The DepositoryTrust Company
("DTC"). In the event the Issuer determines that the continuation of the system of bookentry-only transfers through DTC (or a successor securities depository) is not in the best
interests of the beneficial owners of the Bonds or the Issuer, it will so notify the Transfer
Agent and DTC, whereupon the Transfer Agent shall notify DTC of the availability through
DTC of Bond certificates. In such event, or in the event DTC discontinues its services with
respect to the Bonds, the Issuer shall issue, and the Transfer Agent shall transfer and
exchange Bonds as requested by DTC of like tenor, principal amount, interest rate and
maturity, in authorized denominations to the identifiable beneficial owners of the Bonds.
While the Bonds are in book-entry-only form, payment of principal of and premium, if any
and interest on the Bonds shall be made as provided in a Letter of Representations among
DTC, the Issuer and the Transfer Agent.
The form of the Bonds shall be substantially as follows, with such changes as an
Authorized Officer may, by executing the definitive Bond, approve:
FORM OF BOND
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository
Trust Company a New York corporation ("DTC") to the issuer or its agent for registration
of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of
Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC
(and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR
VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.


137




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION PROJECTS
STUDENT FEE BOND, SERIES 1995
No. _Maturity Date:                             Principal Amount:
Interest Rate:      Date of Original Issue: __
Registered Holder:
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution and laws of the state of Michigan (the "Issuer"), for
value received, hereby promises to pay the Principal Amount shown above to the Registered
Holder or registered assigns, in lawful money of the United States of America on the Maturity Date shown above unless previously redeemed as provided herein, with interest thereon
until maturity from the Date of Original Issue or such later date through which interest on
the Bond in exchange for which this Bond has been issued has been paidat the Interest Rate
shown above, first payable April 1, 1996, and semiannually thereafter on April 1 and
October 1. Principal of this bond is payable at the principal corporate trust office of
____________ in ______                       (the "Transfer Agent") or such
other transfer agent as the Issuer may hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered
owner not less than 60 days prior to any interest payment date. Interest on this bond is
payable to the person or entity who is as of the 15th day of the month prior to each interest
payment date (the "Record Date") the registered owner, by check or draft mailed by the
Transfer Agent to the registered holder as of the Record Date at the registered address, or by
wire transfer by the Transfer Agent to any holder of $100,000 or more in aggregate principal
amount of the Bonds to such wire transfer address as the holder shall specify in a written
notice requesting payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than
11:00 a.m. on the fifth business day prior to the interest payment date (which notice may
provide that it shall remain effective until changed or revoked).
This bond is one of an issue of bonds (the "Bonds"), of like tenor, except as to series
designation, denomination, rate of interest and date of maturity, aggregating the principal
amount of $, all issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Issuer on
1995 (the "Resolution"), for the purpose of paying part of the cost of the
acquisition, construction, renovation, furnishing and equipping of certain capital projects of
the University of Michigan or related entities, and paying costs related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested in the Issuer by
law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable
pledge of the Student Fees (defined in the Resolution) from the students attending the
University of Michigan. The Issuer has covenanted and agreed to establish and maintain
Student Fees to be collected in an amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at
least two hundred percent of the maximum future annual debt service requirements on all
outstanding bonds or obligations payable on a first lien basis therefrom. No recourse shall
be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest on this bond or any claim
based thereon against the state of Michigan, the Issuer or any officer or agent thereof or of
the University of Michigan, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor shall these obligations become a lien on or be secured by an property, real, personal or mixed, of the state of
Michigan or the Issuer, other than the Student Fees and the Bond Fund as more fully
defined in the Resolution. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the
issuance hereof, the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the funds
from which and the conditions under which this bond is payable, the general covenants and
provisions pursuant to which this bond is issued, the outstanding obligations of the Issuer
which have an equal claim on the Student Fees with the Bonds, the rights of the holders of
Bonds and the right of the Issuer to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority of lien on the Student Fees with the Bonds, and the terms and conditions under which
this bond and the series of Bonds of which this is one, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to


138




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the above described Resolution. A certified
copy of the Resolution is on file at the Treasurer's Office of the University.
The Bonds maturing prior to,, shall not be subject to redemption
prior to maturity. Bonds maturing on or after  __, _, shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of the Issuer in whole or in part on any date on or after,____, in such order of maturity as the Issuer shall designate and by lot within a
maturity, at the following redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal
amount to be redeemed), plus accrued interest to the redemption date:
Redemption Date                                  Redemption Price
The Bonds maturing,     (the "Term Bonds"), are also subject to mandatory redemption by lot prior to maturity, on, in the years and the amounts set
forth in the order of an authorized officer of the Issuer establishing the terms of the Bonds
at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus accrued
interest to the redemption date without premium.
The principal amount respectively of the Term Bonds to be redeemed on the dates set
forth in the Indenture shall be reduced, in the order determined by the Issuer, by the principal amount of any Term Bonds of the same series and maturity which have been previously
redeemed (otherwise than as a result of a mandatory redemption requirement) or purchased
by the Issuer and delivered to the Transfer Agent for cancellation as provided in the
Resolution.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the
date fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the Bond to be
redeemed at the registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer
Agent. Bonds shall be called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $5,000 shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by
dividing the denomination of the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part.
The notice of redemption for Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the
Bond to be redeemed a new Bond or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the
unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof,
without cost to the holder. No further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for
redemption shall accrue after the date fixed for redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand with the Transfer Agent, to redeem the same.
Any Bond may be exchanged for Bonds of other authorized denominations or transferred by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized
attorney, upon surrender of the Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, together with a
duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent.
Whenever any Bond is surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University
shall execute or cause to be executed, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver,
a new Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rate and
maturity. The Transfer Agent shall require the bondholder requesting the transfer or
exchange to pay any tax or other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to
the transfer or exchange. The Transfer Agent shall not be required to make any transfer or
exchange of any Bond or portion of a Bond called for redemption within 30 days of the
redemption date (except the unredeemed portion of a Bond to be redeemed in part), or any
Bond within 10 days prior to the date of publication of a notice of redemption.
This Bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's Certificate of Authentication on this Bond has been duly executed by the authorized signatory of
the Transfer Agent.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things
required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this
Bond, have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and
manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this
Bond to be signed for it and in its behalf by the facsimile signature of its


139




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B, all as of the Date of Original Issue set forth above.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
By
Its
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION


This is to certify that the within Bond is one of the Regents of the University of Michigan Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1995, described
in the Resolution herein referred to.


Its


Authorlzed signatory
Date of Authentication:
FORM OF ASSIGNMENT
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto


the within Bond of
the Regents of the University of Michigan
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
Attorney to transfer the said Bond on the books of the
within-named Corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises.


Dated: ___
In the presence of:


Signature(s) Guaranteed
Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution participating in a
Securities Transfer Association recognized signature guarantee program.
Note: The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as
written on the face of this Bond in every particular, without alteration or
enlargement or any change whatever. When assignment is made by a
guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or
anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his authority to act must
accompany the Bond.


140




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


Section 306. Mutilated Bonds. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, Public
Acts of Michigan, 1972, as amended ("Act 354"), if any bond shall become mutilated, the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for
Finance of the University, at the expense of the holder of the Bond, shall without further
action being required by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be
executed in the manner specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and
deliver, a new Bond of like tenor in exchange and substitution for the mutilated bond, upon
surrender to the Transfer Agent of the mutilated Bond and receipt by the Transfer Agent
and the Issuer of indemnity satisfactory to them. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354,
if any Bond issued under this Resolution shall be lost, destroyed or stolen, evidence of the
loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer Agent and, if this evidence is
satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the Issuer and indemnity satisfactory to the
Transfer Agent and the Issuer shall be given, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance, at the expense of the owner, shall
without further action being required by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute
or cause to be executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall thereupon authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor and bearing the statement required
by Act 354, or any applicable Michigan law hereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution
for the Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Bond shall have matured or shall be
about to mature, instead of issuing a substitute bond the Transfer Agent may pay the same
without surrender thereof.
Section 307. Cancellation of Bonds. All Bonds which have been retired by maturity, redemption or purchase shall be canceled by the Transfer Agent and returned promptly
to the Issuer or cremated or shredded and an appropriate certificate of such cremation or
shredding delivered to the Issuer by the Transfer Agent. Bonds in substitution or exchange
for which other Bonds have been delivered shall be canceled and returned promptly to tEe
Issuer, or cremated or shredded, with an appropriate certificate of cremation or shredding
delivered to the Issuer as provided above.
Section 308. Resignation of Transfer Agent. The Transfer Agent ma resign by
giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Issuer, and the Issuer may
remove the Transfer Agent by giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to
the Transfer Agent. The Issuer shall designate a successor Transfer Agent and shall mail
notice of the appointment of the successor Transfer Agent to each registered owner of the
Bonds not less than sixty (60) days prior to the next Bond Payment Date. Upon the appointment of a successor Transfer Agent, the predecessor Transfer Agent shall transfer all
moneys and funds the registration books, and all other documents and instruments relating
to the Bonds held by it as Transfer Agent to the successor Transfer Agent.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401. Establishment of Project Fund. There is hereby created and established the Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account of
the University designated by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
There shall be deposited in the Project Fund (i) all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds,
except accrued interest to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 501, and (ii) all
investment earnings on investments of the Project Fund. All moneys in the Project Fund
shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 402. Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created and established with the Transfer Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:
1.   Any accrued interest received at the time of delivery of the Bonds.
2.   Student Fees as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond Fund at the
times and in the amounts provided in Section 602.
3.   All Legally Available Funds authorized or permitted to be paid into the
Bond Fund pursuant to Section 603.
4.   All Investment Income.


141




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


5.   Any moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements
provided for in Article V which are directed by the Issuer to be deposited
therein.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided
in Article V.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501. Application of Bond Proceeds.       Immediately upon the receipt
thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned among and deposited in
the following funds and accounts in the following manner:
1.   Any accrued interest received on sale of the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Bond Fund;
2.   The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Project
Fund.
Section 502. Use of and Disbursements from Project Fund. Moneys in the
Project Fund shall be used pursuant to the following purposes:
1.   Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing and other
expenses of the Issuer in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and
delivery of the Bonds;
2.   Payments necessary to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction,
renovation, furnishing and equipping of the Projects or to reimburse the
Issuer for general funds expended in connection with the foregoing.
3.   The making of a loan in the amount of not to exceed $1,200,000 (the amount
to be determined by an Authorized Officer) to the Alumni Association of the
University of Michigan (the "Association") for the purpose of financing the
costs of acquisition, construction, renovations, furnishings and equipment at
Camp Michigania, owned and operated by the Association.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities
shall, as directed by the Issuer, be promptly transferred to the Bond Fund or used by the
Issuer for payment of any other lawful capital costs of the University as determined by the
Issuer. The depository for the Project Fund shall make disbursements from the Project
Fund upon the order of the Issuer, and shall have no duty or liability with respect to the
manner or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the Issuer from the Project Fund or
in fact are used or applied by the Issuer. The Issuer may, by filing a certificate of an Authorized Officer in the office of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, add or
delete components of the Projects, subject to the Issuer's normal requirements for project
approvals.
Section 503. Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. On each Bond
Payment Date, the Transfer Agent shall use moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal of
and interest on the Bonds as the same become due and, in the case of principal payments, as
the Bonds are presented and surrendered. The Transfer Agent may use moneys in the Bond
Fund not required to pay maturing principal or interest on the next Bond Payment Date for
the acquisition of Bonds in the open market at the written direction of the Issuer. Any
amount remaining in the Bond Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made
therefor under the Resolution shall be returned to the Issuer.
Section 504. Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until required
for use shall be invested by Transfer Agent in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal and the interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of America; or obligations
of Federal Farm Credit Banks, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National Mortgage
Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the Export-Import
Bank of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Bank for


142




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association; or tax-exempt obligations rated A or better by
Moody's Investors Service and Standard and Poor's Corporation in the case of long term
obligations, or in the highest category by each such rating agency in the case of short-term
obligations; or may be deposited in a bank or banks (including the Transfer Agent) in an
interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances or in certificates of
deposit; or may be invested in any fund or funds composed entirely of any or all of the above
described investment vehicles (provided that, with respect to tax-exempt obligations in such
funds, the obligations need not be rated A or better, but rather must be, or be deemed to be
by the Fund's sponsor or adviser, investment grade), all as shall be directed by the Issuer.
Interest or profit earned on the above investments or deposits when received shall be
deposited in the Bond Fund. Any loss on the above investments or deposits shall be charged
to the Bond Fund.
Moneys held in the Project Fund may be invested in any investments legally available
for University funds. All earnings, gains or losses thereon shall be credited to the Project
Fund.
Section 505. Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants that it shall take all
actions within its control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds
from gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
(the " ode"), including but not limited to actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings,
if required, and the expenditure and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be
Bond proceeds.
The Issuer shall require that the Alumni Association of the University of Michigan
enter into a similar covenant prior to the loan of any proceeds of the Bonds to the Association as provides in Section 502.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 601. Security for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or general obligations of the state of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Issuer, but are limite obligations of the Issuer equally and ratably secured only by the following:
1.   All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2.   Student Fees and the Issuer's right to receive Student Fees; and
3.   All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The Issuer hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security interest in all of
the foregoing, and in order to assure this security the Issuer covenants and agrees that the
Bondholders shall have a first lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund, and that Bondholders
shall have a first lien against Student Fees of equal standing and priority of lien with the
pledge of Student Fees for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity Obligations
which the Issuer reserves the right to issue under Article VII and the existing (as of September 1, 1995) Parity Obligations of the Issuer, as follows:
1.   University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount -$5,800,000
Dated - February 1, 1966
Final Maturity - April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $265,000
2.   Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount - $2,000,000
Dated - July 1, 1969
Final Maturity - April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $370,000


143




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


3.   Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $6,590,000
Dated - July 1, 1977
Final Maturity- April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $5,135,000
4.   Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $3,500,000
Dated- April 1, 1978
Final Maturity - April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $2,405,000
5.   Dearborn Campus Project Fee Bonds
Original Amount - $10,180,000
Dated- July 1, 1979
Final Maturity- April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $6,955,000
6.   Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984
Original Amount - $45,858,587
Dated - October 1, 1984 and November 1, 1984
Final Maturity - April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $2,822,692
7.   Construction Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1986
Original Amount - $14,140,000
Dated - August 1, 1986
Final Maturity - April 1, 2012
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $320,000
8.   Construction and Refunding Student Fee Bonds, Series 1987
Original Amount- $24,985,000
Dated - May 1, 1987
Final Maturity - April 1, 2009
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) $5,440,000
9.   Telecommunications System and Refunding Bonds, Series 198
Original Amount - $7,253,682.80
Dated - March 22, 1988
Final Maturity - April 1, 1998
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $7,253,683
10. Engineering College Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1991
Original Amount- $8,100,000
Dated July 15, 1991
Final Maturity - April 1, 2002
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $6,700,000
11. Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds,
Series 1993A, Series 1993B and Series 1993C
Original Amount - $66,080,000
Dated- February 1, 1993
Final Maturity - April 1, 2013
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $65,890,000
12. Student Fee Refunding Bonds, Series 1993
Original Amount - $27,585,000
Dated- September 1, 1993
Final Maturity - April 1, 2011
Amount Outstanding (September 1, 1995) - $26,615,000
The lien of the pledge of the Student Fees, and on the Bond Fund, shall be valid and
binding from the date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or properties


144




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


subject thereto which are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the
pledge without physical delivery or further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and
binding against all parties having claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Issuer
(except for the holders of any other indebtedness of the Issuer payable from a first lien on
Student Fees) irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Section 602. Student Fees as Source of Payment of Bonds. To the extent that
on the fifth day preceding any Bond Payment Date the moneys then on deposit in the Bond
Fund are not sufficient to meet the interest, or principal and interest, payment coming due
on such Bond Payment Date, the Issuer shall, commencing the fifth day prior to the first
Bond Payment Date, and on each subsequent fifth day preceding each Bond Payment Date
while the Bonds remain outstanding, pay to the Transfer Agent for deposit into the Bond
Fund all Student Fees thereafter received until the amount on deposit in the Bond Fund is
sufficient to pay the interest, and principal, if any, coming due on the Bonds by maturity on
such Bond Payment Date; provided, however, that in making the payment over to the Transfer Agent, Student Fees shall be divided pro rata between the Bond Fund and any similar
fund for the payment of other obligations of the Issuer secured by a first lien on Student
Fees, to the extent necessary to effect the pari passu basis of the lien on Student Fees.
Subject to the above requirements, the Issuer shall have and retain the full right and ability
to receive, collect, expend, invest, use or otherwise hold or dispose of Student Fees as the
Issuer deems appropriate.
Section 603. Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment for the
Bonds. The Issuer reserves the right, but shall not be required, to use any Legally Available
Funds for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the Bonds.
Section 604. Covenant re: Student Fees. The Issuer covenants and agrees that as
long as any of the Bonds remain outstanding and unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it
will establish and maintain Student Fees to be collected from the students attending the
University in an amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least two hundred
percent (200%) of the maximum future annual debt service requirements on all outstanding
bonds or obligations payable on a first lien basis from said Student Fees or allocations therefrom. Such collections shall be sufficient, together with other available funds, to provide
such sums as are necessary for the operation, administration and maintenance of the University and its facilities and programs.
Section 605. Limitations of Obligations. No recourse under any obligation,
covenant, stipulation or indenture contained in this Resolution or in an  Bond issued
hereunder or caused by the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had
against the State of Michigan, or the Issuer or any member or officer of the Issuer or any
officer of the University; nor shall any such obligation ever be or become a charge against
the State of Michigan, nor shall the same become a lien on or secured by any property, real
personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Issuer, it being expressly understood and
agreed that the Bonds and the obligations created hereunder are secured by and payable only
from Student Fees and moneys in the Bond Fund, and that no other liability whatsoever
shall attach to or be incurred by the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any member or officer
of the Issuer or any officer of the University, or its successors; all other liability, except as
herein provided, being expressly waived.
ARTICLE VII
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 701. Additional Parity Obligations. The Issuer reserves the right to issue
additional Parity Obligations for any authorized purpose having equal standing and priority
of lien against Student Fees with the Bonds and other then existing Parity Obligations of the
Issuer, provided:
(a) the Issuer by its Associate Vice President for Finance certifies that the total
amount of Student Fees collected by the Issuer in each of its last two preceding complete
Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such proposed additional Parity Obligations are equal to
at least 200% of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then
outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any
future Fiscal Year the Bonds are scheduled to be outstanding; and


145




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable as to principal only on
April 1 of the year or years of maturity and payable as to interest either annually or semiannually on April 1 or October 1 of such years.
Section 702. Defeasance. If all the Bonds shall have become due and payable in
accordance with their terms or are to be paid at their maturity or maturities or are to be
redeemed prior to maturity (notice of redemption, or irrevocable instructions to the Transfer
Agent to mail such notice, having been duly given) and the whole amount of the principal
and the interest so due and payable upon all of the Bonds then outstanding shall be paid or
sufficient cash or cash and non-callable Government Obligations the principal of and the
interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable will provide sufficient
moneys for such payment, shall be held by the Transfer Agent in the Bond Fund or by any
other escrow agent in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds, then and in that case
the Resolution shall be defeased and terminated and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder
shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void and, on demand of the Issuer, any surplus
in the Bond Fund other than money held for the payment of the Bonds shall be transferred
to the Issuer; provided, that the applicable provisions of this Resolution pertaining to the
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds and redemption, registration,
exchange and transfer of Bonds, and the tax covenant contained in Section 505 shall be
continued in force until such have been fully paid.
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which cash or cash and Government Obligations
(including principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Transfer Agent or other
escrow agent in trust for the holders of saidBos or  tions of Bonds s ufficient to pay all
principal and interest through maturity or earlier redemption (notice of redemption, or
irrevocable instructions to the Transfer Agent to mail such notice, having been duly given)
shall no longer be outstanding hereunder, and the holders thereof shall have no further
rights hereunder or under the Bonds except the right to receive payment from the cash or
cash and Government Obligations held in trust as specified above and the right to effect
transfers or exchanges of Bonds as described above.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow
agent as described above shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when due, of the
Bonds payable therewith.
ARTICLE VIII
FURTHER COVENANTS AND
LIMITATION ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The Issuer covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as follows:
Section 801. Audits and Records. The Issuer shall keep and maintain accurate
books and records relating to the collection of Student Fees and the allocation thereof and
the payments into the Bond Fund, which said books and records shall be open for inspection
by any holder of the Bonds at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited
annually by a certified public accountant.
Section 802. Performance of Covenants; Authority. The Issuer shall faithfully
perform- all of its covenants undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the
Resolution and in any Bond executed and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of
the Issuer pertaining thereto. The Issuer is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws
of the state of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to pledge Student Fees
in the manner and to the extent herein set forth, and to acquire, construct, renovate and
equip the Projects as contemplated by this Resolution; all action on its part relating to the
adoption of the Resolution and the issuance, execution and delivery of any Bonds hasbeen or
will be duly and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds in the
hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited obligations of the Issuer according to their terms.
Section 803. Continuing Disclosure. In accordance with the requirements of Rule
15c2-12 of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the Issuer shall enter
into the Undertaking for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the Bonds, as
more specifically set forth in Exhibit B hereto: provided, however, that the terms of Exhibit
B are subject to completion and modification prior to delivery of the Bonds by an Authorized


146




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


Officer executing the Undertaking as such Officer shall deem necessary to comply with law
or market requirements. After delivery of the Bonds, the Undertaking may be modified or
amended as provided therein. Either Authorized Officer is authorized to modify, complete,
execute and deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, the Undertaking.
ARTICLE IX
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 901. Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders.
The Issuer may without the consent of the Bondholders adopt resolutions supplemental to
the Resolution as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof or any one
or more of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity Obligations;
(b) To confirm or  ther assure the Stdent Fees or      or pledge to the
Bondholders any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and greements of the Issuer for the purpose of
further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe fuirther imitations and restrictions upon the issuance of Parity
Obligations by the Issuer;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Resolution;
(f)  To amend or subtract from or make substitutions for the Projects.
Section 902. Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders.
Exclusive of supplementaresolutions covered by Section 901 for which consent of Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than 51% in the aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds outstanding shall have the right to consent to the adoption by the Issuer of such other
supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the
Issuer; provided, however,             this Section shall permit, or be
construed as permitting (i) an extension of the maturity of the principal of or the interest
on any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount of any Bond or the
rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other
Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required
for consent to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the Issuer shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the
Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution
to be mailed to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the
Issuer kept by the Transfer Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the
proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on
file at the Treasurer's Office of the University for inspection by all Bondholders. If within
six months following the publication of such notice, the holders of not less than 51% in
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding at the time of the mailing of such
notice have consented in writing to the adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in accordance therewith.
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1001. Authorization of Official Statement, Preliminary Official Statement and Bond Purchase Agreement. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, or the Associate Vice President for Finance, or either of them are hereby authorized
to execute and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement with the Underwriter selected by
either of them, and to cause to be prepared and circulated a Preliminary Official Statement


147




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


with respect to the Bonds, and to cause to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf
of the Issuer an Official Statement substantially in the form of the previously prepared
Preliminary Official Statement, relating to the Bonds. The Associate Vice President and
Treasurer is also authorized to additionally execute any of such documents, if so required by
an Authorized Officer. The distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement in
accordance with applicable laws, in connection with the sale of the Bonds, is hereby ratified
and confirmed, and the distribution and use of the Official Statement in accordance with
applicable laws by the successful bidder, in connection with the marketing of the Bonds, is
hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1002. Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution
shall constitute a contract between the Issuer and Bondholders to the equal and ratable
benefit and protection of each Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no material
change, variation, or alteration of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in
accordance with its terms.
Section 1003. Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by the Resolution shall be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the Bondholder(s) under the
law.
Section 1004. Loan to Alumni Association and Related Procedures. Either of
the Authorized Officer is authorized to make a loan of the proceeds of the Bonds to the
Alumni Association of the University of Michigan as provided in Section 502, in the amount
of not to exceed $1,200,000, for the purpose of Anancing the portion of the Projects to be
completed at Camp Michigania.    Either Authorized Officer is authorized to negotiate,
execute and deliver a Loan Agreement with the Association and to accept from the Association a Note evidencing its repayment obligations with respect to the Loan. The Note shall be
payable at times and in amounts (principal, interest and premium) corresponding, as closely
as practicable, to the debt service on the portion of the Bonds used to finance the loan. Such
Authorized Officer is also authorized to accept such mortgages or security agreements, covering such property of the Association, as the Authorized Officer deems appropriate, as
security for the Association's obligations under the Loan Agreement and Note.
The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Associate Vice President
for Finance and the Associate Vice President and Treasurer or any one of them, are authorized to pubfish notice of, and conduct, a public hearing on the issuance of the portion of the
Bonds to finance the loan to the Association, and to seek the approval of the Governor of the
State of Michigan therefor, all as required by the Internal Revenue Code in order to establish
the tax-exempt status of the interest on such Bonds.
Section 1005. Other Documentation. The Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University, the SecretaryUniversity o, ther University, the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, the Associate Vice President and Treasurer of the
University, and any other appropriate officers or representatives of the Issuer or the University, and each of them, are authorized to perform al acts and deeds and execute and deliver
all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer required by this Resolution, or
necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the
Bonds, and the acquisition, construction, renovation, furnishing and equipping of the
Projects all as contemplated hereby.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds, all actions permitted or required by the
Issuer may be made or undertaken by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance, or any other duly authorized officer of the
Issuer or the University. All determination of Bond terms required to be made by the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance
shall be made by him within the ranges or other limitations set forth herein
Section 1006. Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the
Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness
of the remaining sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1007. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference
and shall not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.


148




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


Section 1008. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings
of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


Section 1009. Effective Date.
adoption.


The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its


EXHIBIT A
PROJECTS


Current Amount
Estimate To Be


Total Current


Ann-Arbor Campus


Estimated Cost *


Financed *


$7,500,000


Student Health Services
Michigan Union
North Campus Commons
Michigan League
School of Social Work Building
Kinesiology Addition
Dearborn Campus
Renovations
Addition
Camp Michigania Cabin Construction
and Renovations


$7,500,000
10,300,000


10,300,000


2,250,000


2,250,000


6,450,000


6,450,000


25,000,000


25,000,000


2,000,000


1,300,000


16,200,000
2,500,000


2,200,000
2,500,000


1,200,000


1,200,000


Totals


$73,400,000


58,700,000


* Exclusive of Bond Issuance Expense
EXHIBIT B
DISCLOSURE UNDERTAKING
In connection with the issuance and delivery of the $           Regents of the
University of Michigan Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series
1995A, Series 1995B, Series 1995C, and Series 1995D (collectively the "Bonds"), authorized
under a resolution (the "Resolution") adopted by the Regents of the University of Michigan
(the "Issuer") on September, 1995, and for the benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds, the IssuerThereby undertakes and agrees as follows:


149




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


(a) The Issuer hereby agrees, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 15c2-12 (the
"Rule") promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") pursuant to
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to provide or cause to be provided to each nationally
recognized municipal securities information repository ('NRMSIR") and to the appropriate
state information depository, if any, for the State of Michigan ("SID"), in each case as designated by the SEC in accordance with the Rule, the following annual financial information
and operating data commencing with e fiscal year ended June 30, 1996.
(1) Updates of the following tables of financial information
and operating data included in the official statement of the Issuer
relating to the Bonds (the "Official Statement").
(2) Financial statements pertaining to the Issuer prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles by the
Issuer and audited by an individual or firm of independent certified
public  accountants   ("Audited  Financial Statements"): provided,
however,that the Issuer may from time to time, in order to comply
with federal or State legal requirements modify the basis upon which
its financial statements are prepared. N'otice of any such modification
shall be provided to (i) either each NRMSIR or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ("MSRB") and (ii) the SID, and shall include a
reference to the specific federal or State law or regulation describing
such accounting basis.
Such annual financial information and operating data described above are expected to
be provided directly by the Issuer, but may be provided by reference to subsequent official
statements of the Issuer filed with the MSRB.
(b) Such annual information and operating data described in (a)(1) above and the
Audited Financial Statements will each be available on or before the 180th day after the end
of the fiscal year of the Issuer.
(c) The Issuer agrees to provide or cause to be provided in a timely manner to (i)
each NRMSIR or to the MSRB and (ii) the SID, if any, notice of the occurrence of any of the
following events listed in (b)(5)(i)(C) of the Rule with respect to the Bonds, if applicable, if
such event is material:
1.   principal and interest payment delinquencies
2.   non-payment related defaults
3.   unscheduled draws on debt service reserves reflecting financial
difficulties
4.   unscheduled draws on credit enhancements, reflecting financial
difficulties
5.   substitution of credit or liquidity providers, or their failure to
perform
6.   adverse tax opinions or events affecting the tax-exempt status of
the Bonds
7.   modifications to rights of holders of the Bonds
8.   bond calls
9.   defeasances
10.  release, substitution, or sale of property securing repayment of
the Bonds
11.  rating changes
(d) The Issuer covenants that its determinations of materiality for purposes of (c)
above will be made in conformance with federal securities laws.
(e) The Issuer agrees to provide or cause to be provided, in a timely manner, to (i)
each NRMSIR or to the MSRB and (ii) the SID, notice of a failure by the Issuer to provide


150




September Meeting, 1995 - Appendix B


the annual financial information and operating data with respect to the Issuer described in
subsection (a) above on or prior to the dates set forth in subsection (b) above.
(f) The Issuer reserves the right to terminate its obligation to provide annual financial information and notices of material events, as set forth above, if and when the Issuer no
longer remains an obligated person with respect to the Bonds within the meaning of the
Rule, including upon legal defeasance of all the Bonds.
(g) The Issuer agrees that its undertaking pursuant to the Rule set forth herein is
intended to be for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds (including all beneficial owners of
the Bonds, as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the SEC) and shall be enforceable by any holder or
beneficial owner of the Bonds; provided that, the right to enforce the provisions of this
Undertaking shall be limited to a right to obtain specific enforcement of the Issuer's obligations hereunder and any failure by the Issuer to comply with the provisions of this undertaking shall not constitute a default or an event of default with respect to the Bonds or under
the Resolution.
(h) The provisions of this Undertaking, including but not limited to the provisions
relating to the accounting principles pursuant to which the Issuer's financial statements are
prepared, may be amended as deemed appropriate by an Authorized Officer of the Issuer:
provided, however, that any such amendment must be adopted procedurally and substantively in a manner consistent with the Rule, including any interpretations thereof made
from time to time by the SEC, which, to the extent applicable, are incorporated herein by
reference.
(i) If a change is made to the basis on which financial statements are prepared, the
annual financial information for the year in which the change is made shall present a
comparison between the financial statements or information prepared on the basis of the
new accounting principles and those prepared on the basis of the former accounting principles. Such comparison shall include a qualitative and, to the extent reasonably feasible,
quantitative discussion of the differences in the accounting principles and the impact of the
change in the accounting principles on the presentation of the financial information.
(j)  All terms not defined herein which are defined in the Resolution shall have the
meanings herein assigned to them in the Resolution
Dated:, 1995
Regents of the University of Michigan
By___ ________
Its


151




SPECIAL MEETING, OCTOBER 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Tuesday, October 10, 1995
The Regents met at 6:00 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Interim Provost Machen,
Vice Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal, and Chancellors
Nelms and Renick were also present. Executive Vice President Womack was
absent.
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and stated that he was
recommending the appointment of J. Bernard Machen as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs for the period September 1, 1995,
through August 31, 1997. He observed that a search for a new provost had
been underway for several months, but due to his own decision to retire from
the presidency on June 30, 1996, the provost search advisory committee had
recommended that the search be halted until such time as a new president
has been selected. His recommendation is based on the high regard shown
for Dr. Machen's leadership throughout the University since he began
serving as interim provost and in the interest of providing continuity during
this time of transition.
Regent McGowan moved approval of J. Bernard Machen as provost and
executive vice president for academic affairs for the period September 1,
1995, through August 31, 1997. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent McFee thanked Dr. Machen for his willingness to serve in this role,
and observed that it would be important for everyone to work together
during the coming months.
Regent Baker observed that this would be a difficult time and expressed
confidence that Dr. Machen would provide strong leadership. There being no
further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Regent Power congratulated Provost Machen on his appointment, and
expressed the Regents' appreciation to Professor Warner and the entire
provost search advisory committee for their diligence in carrying on the
search for a permanent provost.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Baker made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in


153




Special Meeting, October 10,1995


closed session on October 10, 1995, to consider material exempt
from  discussion  or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom    of
Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
There followed a short recess, after which the meeting resumed in executive
session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


154




OCTOBER MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 19, 1995
The Regents met at 9:20 a.m. in the Michigan Rooms of the University
Center Building on the campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Present
were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner.       Secretary Palmer, Provost
Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison,
Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellor Nelms were also present.
Chancellor Renick arrived at noon.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
Baker, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session at 9:00 a.m. on October 19, 1995, and reconvene at
7:30 a.m. on October 20, 1995, for the purposes of considering
material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material
consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
The meeting reconvened in public session at 1:45 p.m. in the Michigan
Rooms. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Horning,
McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Provost
Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford,
Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick were also present.
Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the start of the meeting and Vice President Harrison arrived at around 3:00 p.m.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and expressed the
Board's gratitude to Chancellor Nelms and his colleagues for their hospitality
in hosting the meeting. Noting this would be the last time he would chair a
Regents' Meeting in Flint, he commented on the state of the Flint campus as
it approaches its 40th year. He observed that the city of Flint is facing
challenges typical of other cities that had formerly relied on manufacturing
for their economic base. The president suggested that the key determinant
of Flint's future will be education, as it is through education that all of the
other challenges to our society can be addressed. He observed that the city
of Flint not only has a strong public school system and strong community


155




October Meeting, 1995


and private colleges, but also is the home of a major university: the University
of Michigan-Flint.
President Duderstadt observed that Chancellor Nelms has brought great
integrity, personal warmth, energy, and vision to the Flint campus since he
became chancellor. He then welcomed Professor Lawrence Kugler back to
the table as interim provost of the Flint campus and called on Chancellor
Nelms to present the academic plan developed over the past year.
University of Michigan-Flint Academic Plan
Chancellor Nelms reported that over the past year, the UM-Flint
community had been working to create a campus-wide consensus as to how
the campus would proceed through the next decade. The plan had been
developed under the leadership of Interim Provost Larry Kugler, with the
financial support of the Mott Foundation. Chancellor Nelms called on
Provost Kugler, who stated that the charge to the committee had been to
produce a refined mission statement and address the following seven
planning clusters: academic quality, academic programs, educational collaborations, community outreach, student support, minority attainment, and
technology and education.
Provost Kugler said that the committee's extensive consultation with
students, faculty, staff, community leaders, and other stakeholders had
yielded a number of recurring themes, from which the committee drew its
mission statement and recommendations. He reviewed the mission statement and the committee's specific recommendations related to each of the
seven areas mentioned above, all of which are contained in the document
that was distributed to the meeting participants, "A Vision for the Future: A
Report to the Community on the 1995 University of Michigan-Flint
Academic Plan."
Following his presentation, Provost Kugler responded to questions from
the Regents about the academic plan. Chancellor Nelms observed that one of
the responsibilities of a leader is to articulate a vision; his vision is that the
University of Michigan-Flint, because of its academic excellence, its responsiveness to students, and outreach to the community, will become the university of choice in mid-Michigan. He believes that this plan will help the
University to move in that direction. For the next several years, Chancellor
Nelms reported that the Flint campus will focus on the following six areas: 1)
developing a mechanism  to assess quality; 2) managing enrollment to
enhance retention; 3) developing new academic programs that serve the
needs of the region, with emphasis on graduate programs; 4) forming strategic alliances with other educational institutions; 5) delivering courses in
communities experiencing population growth; and 6) enhancing the use of
technology in delivering services to students and providing administrative
support. Chancellor Nelms said that he will fund these initiatives with a
$500,000 academic excellence grant received some years ago.


156




October Meeting, 1995


Chancellor Nelms acknowledged the presence in the audience of Mr.
Woodrow Stanley, mayor of the city of Flint and a UM-Flint graduate. He
then introduced Mr. Bill White, chair of the Mott Foundation, which had
donated the funds to generate the 1995 Academic Plan.
Mr. White gave an overview of the economic situation in the city of Flint
and the surrounding region, noting that although thousands of traditional
manufacturing jobs have disappeared in the area, there are also world class
high tech industries that require employees with advanced education. He
observed that the presence of the University of Michigan in Flint offers the
University a unique place to confront many of the issues that are plaguing
the nation. Mr. White stated that the former Autoworld property across the
river from the Flint campus should be devoted to higher education, so to that
end, the Mott Foundation has offered funding in the range of $40 million to
help the University of Michigan-Flint bring this about.
Regent Baker observed that the Mott Foundation has supported the
University continuously since its inception. He expressed his gratitude to
the foundation for its latest contribution, the Autoworld property. Regent
Newman also expressed her thanks.
Regent Varner left the meeting at this point, at 2:40 p.m.
Chancellor Nelms then called on Ms. Kristen Skivington, assistant to
the chancellor, who described the Community Stabilization and Revitaliza.
tion Project (CSR), through which the UM-Flint provides technical assistance to businesses and nonprofit organizations in Genesee County. Ms.
Skivington called on Professor Fataneh Taghaboni, who gave a presentation
on the work she had done with Genesee Packaging, Inc., through CSR.
Chancellor Nelms then thanked the Regents for having been willing to
spend a portion of their meeting learning more about the Flint Campus.
There followed a five-minute break, after which the meeting reconvened at
3:10 p.m.
1996-97 and 1997-98 State Budget Requests, Ann Arbor Campus
President Duderstadt called on Provost Machen, who noted that state
support will be critical in the coming year as the University searches for a
new president. He also stated that the means of classifying the state's
universities according to Carnegie Commission criteria, as was done last year
during the appropriations process, is flawed, and our budget request to the
state recommends it not be used again..
For 1996-97, the University is requesting an increase of 3.1 percent
($8.9 million) for inflation and an increase of $9.5 million for two areas of
program revisions: $7.5 million for new and expanded partnerships for
outreach to the state, which will consist of the Center for Learning through
Community Service; the State and Local Policy Research Center; economic
development outreach, done largely through the Business and Industrial
Assistance Division (BIAD); and the Institute for Educational Innovation in


157




October Meeting, 1995


K-12. The second component of the program revision is expansion of opportunities for undergraduate research ($2.0 million). The total incremental
request for 1996-97 is $18.4 million.
For 1997-98, the incremental request is for $10.1 million (3.3 percent)
for inflation on operations, and $10 million for program revisions (further
expansion of partnerships for outreach), for a total requested increase of
$20.1 million.
Provost Machen reported that the program revisions are slated to begin
in the current year. However, he and President Duderstadt both noted that
the additional funding that has been requested will be important to their
continuation.
Regent McFee called attention to the planned Institute for Educational
Innovation in K-12, which she believes will fill an extremely important need.
President Duderstadt noted that it is generally agreed among leaders of
higher education that improving the K-12 education system constitutes one
of the great challenges of our time. He reviewed some proposals for major
changes in teaching credentials and course content that are soon to be
announced in an attempt to respond to these challenges.
In response to a question from Regent Baker as to whether the University had reduced any programs, Provost Machen noted that whenever there
are opportunities to downsize or re-allocate, there is always a huge backlog of
programs waiting to be started. He noted that the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies had eliminated three programs during the past
year.
Regent McFee suggested that the two percent reallocation program
described in the budget request be highlighted to reinforce the University's
commitment to hold down costs.
1996-97 and 1997-98 State Budget Requests, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Renick observed that outreach and partnership activities
have always been hallmarks of the Dearborn Campus. The UM-Dearborn
budget requests reflect the campus' ongoing priorities, including investments
in technology, competitive faculty salaries, the Environmental Interpretive
Center, and funding for enrollment growth. Specifically, the total 1996-97
incremental request of $3,632,000 calls for $1,477,000 for maintenance of
quality educational programming (compensation and non-compensation);
$955,000 for Technology in Service of Learning (Phase 1); and $1,200,000 for
the Environmental Interpretive Center. The incremental increase requested
for 1997-98 calls for $1,621,000 for maintenance of quality educational
programming; $816,000 for technology in service of learning (Phase 2); and
$663,000 for faculty to support program growth.


158




October Meeting, 1995


1996-97 and 1997-98 State Budget Requests, UM-Flint
Chancellor Nelms reported that the Flint campus' budget focuses on the
growth potential of the campus, student retention, improved use of technology, and faculty and staff compensation. The 1996-97 incremental request of
$2,735,000 calls for $225,000 for improvements in the quality of student life
(student retention and scholarships), $575,000 for new program development
and academic planning initiatives, $800,000 for infrastructure and technology improvements, and a 3.1 percent inflationary salary and non-salary
increase ($1,135,000).
The 1997-98 incremental request of $2,846,000 calls for $175,000 for
improvements in the quality of student life, $625,000 for new program development and academic planning initiatives, $800,000 for infrastructure and
technology, and a 3.3 percent inflationary salary and non-salary increase
($1,246,000).
The president called on Ms. Cynthia Wilbanks, associate vice president
for university relations, and Mr. Ed Bagale, associate vice chancellor for
government relations at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, to comment
on how well these requests respond to the current climate in the state legislature. Ms. Wilbanks stated that she believes the documents respond appropriately to concerns that have been expressed among the legislators, particularly the sections describing the University's efforts at cost-reduction and
value centered management and in the reinforcement of a partnership
relationship with the state's citizens. She and Mr. Bagale believed that the
documents would be received favorably in the legislature.
Regent Deitch commented that he was heartened by the quality of the
team representing the University in Lansing, and said that he was confident
that combined with the efforts of the rest of the administrative team, the
University would be successful in this legislative season.
There followed a 15 minute recess at 3:45 p.m., after which the meeting
reconvened to hear public comments. However, there being no speakers
present for Public Comments, the meeting recessed at 4:00 p.m.
Friday October 20, 1995
The Regents reconvened at 7:30 a.m. to continue in executive session, as
approved on Thursday, October 19, 1995. They then met in public session at
9:20 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and
Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Power.
Secretary Palmer, Provost Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice
Presidents Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms
and Renick were also present. Regent Varner was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Executive Vice President Womack.


159




October Meeting, 1995


Ernst & Young LLP Management Report with University Responses
Executive Vice President Womack invited Mssrs. Bob Emde, Harold
Miller, and George Johnson, who represent the firm Ernst & Young, LLP, to
the table to present the external auditor's report. Mr. Emde noted that Mr.
Johnson is a managing partner in the firm George Johnson and Company,
which works with Ernst & Young to perform the audit,
Mr. Emde reported that the audit report expresses a clean, unqualified
opinion on the University's combined financial statements, including the
financial statements for those entities that are part of the combined financial
statements, but that are audited separately. In addition, there were no
material weaknesses noted in procedures or controls. In each instance noted
in the management letter, Mr. Emde noted that the University had
concurred with the recommendations.
Regent Baker commented that the Regents were available to meet with
the auditors privately if they deemed such a discussion necessary. Regent
Deitch noted that the Regents do not have an audit committee and asked
whether an audit committee would serve to facilitate communication. Mro
Emde responded that he did not believe having an audit committee would be
particularly productive, given the way the University is organized and the
very public nature of all of its activities. Regent Deitch asked Mr. Emde to
provide the Regents with information on the relationship between audit
committees and external auditors in other public universities that do have
audit committees.
Regent McFee observed that the Regents rely on the objective review
provided by the external auditors to bring to their attention any issues that
the auditors believe merit their involvement.
Presidential Search
his retirement at the end of the current academic year, much interest has
been expressed about consulting with the Board about the search for his
successor.
Regent McFee read the following letter into the record in the form of a
resolution:
An Open Letter to the University Community:
President James J Duderstadt's recent announcement that he
intends to step down from the presidency of the University of
Michigan signals the beginning of one of the most important
responsibilities the University community undertakes: the selection
of its next president. As stewards of the public trust, the Board of
Regents approaches this task with unified resolve to find the best
person for this most important leadership role, a person in the
tradition most recently defined by Harlan Hatcher, Robben


160




October Meeting, 1995


Fleming, Harold Shapiro, and James Duderstadt. We approach this
task with two important principles in mind: clarity and community.
While we are clear that our goal is to find the best possible
president for our great University, we also firmly believe that we
need to consult extensively within the University community before
undertaking the search.  We believe that the involvement of the
entire University community is an essential component of this
process: envisioning the University's needs over the next decade,
defining the qualities the next president must have, and advising us
on the best process for conducting a search. The selection of the next
president of the University is a shared responsibility, and we intend to
consult with all segments of the community faculty, students, staff,
and alumni-before and during the search.
We call upon all of you, therefore, for your input and guidance.
To that end, we are asking Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison,
and Secretary Palmer to:
1) Plan a series of public forums for the Regents to hear
from various constituencies of the University community.
We will also invite letters and other written communication from faculty, students, staff, and alumni.
2) Provide the Board with background information on past presidential searches here at Mi'chin and review current and
recent searches at other iswitutbns idthin Michigan and
around the country.
We are asking Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison, and
Secretary Palmer to arrange for these sessions to be held and this
information to be gathered within the next two months.
We do want to encourage you all to bring us your ideas and
viewpoints.  'hile the ultimate authority to select the president is
vested in the Board of Regents by the Constitution of the State of
Michigan, your involvement will be vital to our success and to the
future of our great University.
Sincerely,
The Regents of the University of Michigan
Regent McFee offered a resolution that this letter be entered into the
record as an open letter to the University community and as a statement of
how the Regents are to begin this task. Regent Power supported the resolution, and it was approved unanimously.
Comments on the Service of President Duderstadt
Regent Baker made the following statement:


161




October Meeting, 1995


The Regents have accepted the presidents resignation with
regret. We are grateful for his service to the University as a teacher,
professor, researcher, dean, scientist, provost, interim president, and
president President Duderstadt's contributions to the University
have been immense. I personally am very grateful for all he has
done, and it is appropriate that the Regents express their gratitude.
Regent Power supported Regent Baker's statement. Regent McFee
added that the Regents sincerely appreciate the forthrightness and willingness the president has expressed in going forward with this period of transition and making it as expeditious and smooth as possible.
President Duderstadt responded that the Regents would have his
continued, 100 percent effort until the end of his term to maintain the
momentum of the institution.
1995-96 Enrollment Figures
President Duderstadt observed that minority enrollment figures
continue to increase, with students of color comprising 25.0 percent of the
student body and African-Americans comprising 8.7 percent. When international students are included in the calculations, about one-third of the
student body are students of color. Not only is this balance beginning to
reflect the diversity of society, but the quality of the student body is as
strong as it has ever been. This demonstrates the close relationship between
diversity and excellence in higher education, as well as the leadership role
the University continues to play in serving all of our society.
Regent Deitch commented that President Duderstadt's commitment to
diversity and the advances that have been achieved as a result of this
commitment are at the "top of the list" of his accomplishments. As a
Regent, he wished to reaffirm the president's commitment to these principles
and said that seeking out a person with similar commitments and leadership
in these issues will be paramount in his decision-making.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the September
1995 meeting for approval
Reports.   Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of
investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations, and a
report on noncompetitive purchases greater than $2,000 for the period July
1-September 30, 1995. He commented on the recent performance of the
market, noting that the University's high return is a direct result of its longterm commitment and diversification. He invited the Regents to attend the
Investment Advisory Committee meeting at the end of the month.
Executive Vice President Womack also commented on the large number
of construction projects that is scheduled for completion by Fall 1996. These
include the Central Campus Infrastructure, Haven Hall Connector, East


162




October Meeting, 1995


Engineering      Building    Remodeling, the        Tennis    Center,    ITIC    and   the
Engineering Center Buildings, C.C. Little Pharmacy Project, Medical Center
East Campus Primary          Care Facility, North       Entrance    Parking    Structure,
Medical    Science    I  A-Wing     Infrastructure, North        Campus     Bell Tower,
UM-Hospitals Cancer and           Geriatrics Centers, UM-Hospitals Single Room
Maternity Care Project, and the Visitors Center.
Olympia      &   York    Investment.       Executive Vice President Womack
responded to Regent Baker's question about the status of the University's
investment with Olympia & York.             He noted that the value of the University's Olympia & York notes has increased.
Research Reports. Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects
established and summaries of a selection of current research for September
1995. He informed the Regents that he expected to bring to the Board a new
intellectual property policy for consideration by February 1996.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of
voluntary support for September 1995. He reported that the Campaign for
Michigan has reached $903 million towards its goal of $1 billion.
Andrew Abel, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics................  $ 5,000
Mary C. Adams, Ann Arbor
for the Matilda Bookmiller Bickel Memorial Fund in the School of Education............ 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division................................. 84,923
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey;
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in the
College  of Pharm acy........................................................... 26,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 21,890
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. - 18,750
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center, School of Business Administration......... 218,942
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 12,500
AMP, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for the Cumulative Trauma Disorders Fund in the College of Engineering.............25,000
William R. Applegate Estate
for undergraduate  student aid....................................................36,924
Patsy F. Arpino Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................... 20,948
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 12,750
Don Barden, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 50,000
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for golf course restoration and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the
Department of Athletics.......................................................  100,000
Bedding Plants Foundation, Inc., Lansing
for research in the Department of Natural Sciences, University of
Michigan-Dearborn..............................................................  6,000
Jerry Bilik Music, Inc., Washington, DC
for the Helga and Jerry Bilik/William Revelli Music Education Scholarship in
the School of Music.............................................. 10,000


163




October Meeting, 1995


Boehringer Ingelheim, Ltd., Ridgefield, Connecticut
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy......................  10,000
Edward S. and Ruth B. Bordin Estate
for the Edward S. Bordin Graduate Research Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for researcher travel support in the Bentley Historical
L ibrary.......................................................................  50,000
Alice I. Bourquin Trust
for scholarship support in the College of Engineering, and for the Alice I.
Bourquin Memorial Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment............................................ 17,050
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Bristol-Myers Squibb Dean's Discretionary Endowment in the College
of Pharm acy.........................................................    100,000
Bernice C. Burns, Frazier Park, California
582 shares of New Dimensions (IDS) Mutual Fund
for the Bernice and Jack Burns Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Natural Resources and Environment.........................  9,998
Burroughs Wellcome Company, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School.................................. 6,000
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the  Medical School................................................   5,083
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Property & Casualty-Actuarial Sciences Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, Department of Mathematics..................................13,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the Citibank Academic Excellence Award Fund in the School of Business
A dm inistration................................................................. 16,000
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
four shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the William Gabb Smeaton Memorial Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..........................................................  100,400
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 7,285
Core Industries, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School................................... o...... 5,000
Goldie B. Corneliuson Trust
for support in  the  M edical School.................................................  95,251
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research and the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in the Medical School.......... 15,000
Dermik Laboratories, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Wyandotte
for the Gagnon-Rosenthal-Smith Scholarship, the Henderson House Scholarship,
and other Alumnae Council Scholarships.......................................... 7,450
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................ 20,000
James J. and Anne M. Duderstadt, Ann Arbor
for the James and Anne Duderstadt Endowment Fund.............................. 10,000
Gertrude S. Eaton, Toledo, Ohio
for support in the Medical School, in memory of George A. Stimson................. 10,000
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship in the College of Engineering........ 9,000
Beulah R. Elving, Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research the School of Education, and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the   A rts.................................................................  262,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Transportation Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies............................................................. 55,000
Margaret D. Foster Trust
for support in the College of Engineering..................................... 11,026
C. Edward Frisinger, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
6,750 shares of First of America common stock; for the C. Edward and Mary A.
Frisinger Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering
and the Medical School.......................................................  298,266


164




October Meeting, 1995


Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for the Immunopathology Research Fellowship and Training Fund in the
M edical School.........................................................25,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for research in the School of Business Administration, and for minority and
female scholarships in the College of Engineering............................   109,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts.......................................61,389
Byron Gerson, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
Adm inistration.................................................................20,000
Matthew B. Gerson, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
Adm inistration.............................................................   5,000
Alvin Glick, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................  125,200
GR Group, Inc., Bowling Green, Ohio
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship...................................... 5,000
G. Robert Greenberg, Ann Arbor
for the G. Robert Greenberg Symposium in the Medical School....................... 5,000
G. T. Investment, Sterling Heights
for the Communications Disorders Center in the Medical School....................... 5,000
Samuel D. Harris Trust
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry............ 30,000
DuBose and Dorothy Heyward Memorial Fund, New York, New York
for the Porgy and Bess Fund in the Medical School.................................. 10,000
Daniel F. Hopp, St. Joseph
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................... 5,000
IBM Canada, Ltd., Markham, Ontario, Canada
for the Digital Library Research Fund in the College of Engineering............... 14,500
Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 5,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering.........................55,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships, and electrical and computer engineering
fellowships in the College of Engineering.......................................... 66,100
Verne G. Istock, Bloomfield Hills
1,500 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock
for support in the School of Education and for gifts pending designation in the
Campaign for Michigan.........................................................52,313
Fred E. Ittner, Marago, California
for the Edward A. Jones Memorial Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 5,000
Bazley and Roena Johnson Estate
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.............. 18,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................34,206
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research  in  the School of Nursing.............................................. 25,000
Robert P. Kirby, Augusta, Georgia
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 5,000
Barbara M. Kitzner, Allen Park
for the Environmental Study Area Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 5,000
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Foundation Professorship of Korean Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  100,000
Jack Lapides, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and the Schools of Medicine, Music,
Nursing and Public Health; and for unrestricted support of the University of
M ich igan....................................................................... 5,000
Genevieve Latulip Irrevocable Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 180,022
Norman J. and Marilyn Leven Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration.................................................................. 5,000


165




October Meeting, 1995


Lewis Unitrust, Washington, DC
for the Frances and Sydney Lewis Visiting Leaders Program in the Center
for the  Education  of W omen....................................................  40,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
support in the College of Pharmacy............................................... 10,000
Winfield H. and Grace Song Line Trust
for the Winfield H. and Grace Song Line Fund in the School of Public Health......... 825,000
Little Family Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowship, School of Business Administration......... 7,500
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Dillard, Georgia
for the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship................................................17,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for the Macromolecular Science and Engineering Center......................... 5,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................   100,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, the Matthaei Botancial Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the Maas Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Lupus Research Fund in
he Medical School, and for the Maas Foundation MJMI Scholarship in the College
of  Engineering.................................................................. 31,250
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the  School of Education............................................ 85,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 12,812
R. Gordon Mathews, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................. 30,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Minority Engineering Program and other support in the College of
Engineering....................................................................20,000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
1,503 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 89,335
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.........10,000
Midwest Eye-Banks and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 15,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus Media
in the College of Engineering....................................................10,000
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 18,750
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................................... 75619
National Academy of Education, Stanford, California
for research in the School of Education............................................ 20,000
National Institute for Burn Medicine, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 13,451
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.........................................   7,590
George J. Nichols, Jr., Ann Arbor
200 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration.e............ 11,263
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's
Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, for the Sports
Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies; and for the Chris Webber/Nike Foundation Scholarship......................60,000
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinios
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry....................... 25,000


166




October Meeting, 1995


Olympus America, Inc., Melville, New York
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the
Medical School...................................... 10,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 24,863
Orthopedic Foundation for Animals, Inc., Columbia, Missouri
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 18,750
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of
Engineering................................................................... 13,810
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for biological chemistry research in the Medical School.......................... 50,000
Pontiac Fire Fighters Union Good and Welfare Fund, Pontiac
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School................. 13,000
Edwin Przybylowicz, Webster, New York
100 shares of Eastman Chemical Company common stock
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............   6,456
Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................  40,000
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the  Medical School...............................................  10,000
Reader's Digest Foundation, Inc., Pleasantville, New York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................21,500
Christine Reissman, Huntington, New York
for support in  the Division  of Kinesiology.......................................... 10,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration........................................................20,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health.........................................15,991
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmological research in the Medical School................................. 99,990
Margery J. Schneider, Nashville, Tennessee
for the Dwight F. Benton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 6,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics..................... 120,000
Howard B. and Irene S. Sobel
for the Naomi Saferstein Literary Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 10,000
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation Photo Archive Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation
Book Fund in the University Libraries............................................. 6,329
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 6,863
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School........................... 8,678
Zelig N. Stutz Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................ 5,983
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation
of the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School................................. 8,625
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
G. Leonard Teitelbaum, Holmdel, New Jersey
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................. 100,000
Ronald L. Thompson, Holland, Ohio
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship............................................ 5,000
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  12,196
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
500 shares of Schlumberger Ltd., common stock
for the Richard F. Towner Unitrust Fund in the College of Engineering............... 34,219
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship................. 18,500


167




October Meeting, 1995


L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health........................................ 5,000
Helen F. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School............... 50,000
John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Helen S. and John Wagner Fund, and the English Honors Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................   23,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, for the Parke-Davis/Warner Lambert
Fellowship for Nursing Research in the School of Nursing; and for the
Department of Natural Sciences, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............. 70,908
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
200 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................ 11,888
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for Employee Matching Gifts...................................                5,525
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for the Applied Physics Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Pharmacy................. 132,935
WJBK-TV 2, Southfield
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................   9,000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Frank B. Womer Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit
of the School of Education; and for other support in the School of Education........... 11,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Brad Canale, Ann Arbor
an original hand made paper artwork entitled "BC's Blue Canal", by Clinton Hill for the College
of Engineering
John C. Dann, Dexter
29 books, 2 serial publications, and one illustration of a livingroom Christmas scene for the
Clements Library
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
four manuscript items for the Clements Library
Kenneth R. Milks, Clio
audio visual and photocopier materials for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson
Thompson Library
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
a 3M Scotchprint full color wall mural of the 18th hole of the University of Michigan golf course
for the University of Michigan Golf Course Clubhouse
South Redford School District, Redford
laboratory chemicals for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural Sciences
William and Electra Stamelos, Livonia
a blown glass sculpture, untitled, by Macchia for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Art
Collection
H. Parker Tagsold, Blissfield
six photographs dated from 1850-1913, seven manuscript lots, and one hand sewn flag made by
Thirza Parker, dated 1862 for the Clements Library
Peter S. Wright, Ann Arbor
107 Storer and Osborn family papers including documents and related ephemera and books for
the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from      $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Jacqueline R. Brown, Ann Arbor           Lucy S. Schultz, Flint
Justin F. Krasnoff, Ann Arbor            Johannes Tall, Flint
Joe Lunn, Ann Arbor                      Donald L. Wilcox, Ann Arbor
Carl B. Makahian, Palm Springs, California  Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti


168




October Meeting, 1995


Vice President for Development. President Duderstadt noted that
Vice President Kinnear had done an outstanding job of leading the Campaign
for Michigan, and that he had expressed his willingness to serve in this role
through the end of the campaign. Included in the personnel actions is a
recommendation to remove the "interim" from his title and extend his
tenure as vice president for development for two more years. He observed
that Vice President Kinnear is also a noted professor of marketing, and his
willingness to commit himself to leading the campaign shows his extraordinary commitment to the University of Michigan.
Regent Power moved approval of the appointment of Thomas C.
Kinnear as vice president for development from October 1, 1995 through
August 31, 1997. Regent Newman seconded the motion. Regent Power
observed that since August 1994, when Professor Kinnear was named
interim vice president for development, he has raised over $265 million in
new gifts and pledges in the Campaign for Michigan. He commented on the
high levels of energy, confidence, teamwork, and other outstanding attributes he had brought to the position. The vote was then taken and the
motion was approved unanimously. Vice President Kinnear thanked the
Regents, president, officers, and his staff for their confidence and support.
Personnel Actions. Provost Machen, Chancellor Renick, and Chancellor Nelms submitted a number of personnel actions.   Provost Machen
reported that the Medical School had withdrawn the request for establishment of the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorship in Ophthalmology.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR AND ASSOCIATE FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1995
Lansing, John S., Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural
Resources and Environment
NEW APPOI      NTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR AND ASSOCIATE FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective November 1 1995
Nanda, Vikram K., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gramlich, Edward M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Dean, School of Public Policy, also appointed
Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, School of Public, November 1, 1995


169




October Meeting, 1995


Olson, Gary M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Professor of Information and Library Studies, without tenure,
School of Information and Library Studies, five-year term, September 1, 1995
Olson, Judith S. R., Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Information and Library
Studies, without tenure, School of Information and Library Studies, five-year term,
September 1, 1995
Price, Richard H., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, also appointed Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, without tenure, School of Business Administration, five-year term,
October 1, 1995
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kinnear, Thomas C., from Professor of Marketing, with tenure, the D. Maynard Phelps
Professor of Business Administration, and Interim Vice President for Development, to
Professor of Marketing, with tenure, the D. Maynard Phelps Professor of Business
Administration, and Vice President for Development, October 1, 1995-August 31, 1997
McKinley, Donna L., Vice-Chancellor for Student Affairs, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Vice
Chancellor for Student Affairs, five-year term, September 1, 1995
Thorson, Jayne A., Assistant Dean for Faculty Affairs, Medical School, November 1, 1995
Associate Dean for Research and Doctoral Programs. The Regents
approved the establishment of the position of associate dean for research and
doctoral programs in the Medical School, effective October 1, 1995.
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorships. The Regents approved the
establishment of the following Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorships, effective November 1, 1995: the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorship for the
Cure and Prevention of Birth Defects, the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professorship for the Cure and Prevention of Cystic Fibrosis, the Frederick G. L.
Huetwell Professorship in Hypertension, and the Frederick G. L.      Huetwell
Professorship in Ophthalmology.
Frederick G. L. Huetwell and William D. Robinson, M.D., Professorship in Rheumatology. The Regents approved the establishment of the
Frederick G. L, Huetwell and William     D. Robinson, M.D., Professorship in
Rheumatology, effective November 1, 1995.
H. Marvin Pollard Collegiate Professorship in Gastroenterology.
The Regents approved the establishment of the H. Marvin Pollard Collegiate
Professorship in Gastroenterology, effective November 1, 1995.
Henry Sewall Professorship in Medicine.           The Regents approved
the establishment of the Henry Sewall Professorship in Medicine, effective
November 1, 1995.
John   C. and Sally S. Morley Professorship in Finance.               The
Regents approved the establishment of the John C. and Sally S. Morley
Professorship in Finance, effective November 1, 1995.


170




October Meeting, 1995


Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate Professorship in Sociology. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate
Professorship in Sociology, effective July 1, 1995.
Committee Appointments.           The following committee appointments
were submitted for approval:
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Foss, Peggy J., reappointed September 1, 1995-August 31, 1997
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Roach, Sally B., alumna, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1997, vice Richard D. Rattner, term expired
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Low, Bobbi S., September 1, 1995-August 31, 1996, vice Donald R. Zak, unable to serve
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Fortner, Richard W., October 1, 1995-January 31, 1996, during promotion and tenure
deliberations vice L. Charles Bokemeier
Personnel Reports. The following personnnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aarsvold, John N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Aitches, Marian A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English
Alvarez-Garcia, Sergio, Licenciate, Lecturer II in Spanish
Ault, Heather S. Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Bate, J. Bernard, M.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology
Behling, Charles F., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Benini, Stefania, Diploma, Lecturer I in Italian
Bennett, Michael A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Blickle, Peter, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Cardenas, Brenda E., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature and Lecturer II
in American Culture
Chow, Timothy Y., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Countryman, Matthew J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History and Afroamerican and African
Studies
Doherty, Amy F., M.A., Lecturer I in English
Everson, Stephen D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Gallagher, Richard R., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Garver, Susan E., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Gidal, Eric, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Glahn, Kate E., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Gockenbach, Mark S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Heinrich, Robert K., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, October 4, 1995
Hopkins, Richard L., M.A., Lecturer I in Studies in Religion
Ji, Lizhen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Kafka, Kimberly, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Kirsch, Stuart A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology
Leicher, Sheryl S., B.A., Lecturer II in English
Levine, Noga M., L.L.B., Lecturer II in Political Science
Lewis, John L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology
Lombardi, Margaret, M.A., Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures
Marongiu, Elena, University Degree, Lecturer I in Italian
Marsh, E. Neil G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Martin, Glenn B., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chemistry


171




October Meeting, 1995


McDaniel, Raymond C., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English, and Lecturer I in English Language
and Literature
McGuire, Mary K., M.A., Lecturer II in American Culture, Residential College,
January 1, 1996
Mintz, Eric S., M.A., Lecturer I in Communication Studies
Molenda, John J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Moore, Kathleen A., B.S., Lecturer II in Music, Residential College, January 1, 1996
Myers, Eric A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Naginski, Erika, M.A., Lecturer II in French
Palen, Joseph J., M.A., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Phillips, Ann T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Pietila, Richard W., M.A., Lecturer II in Communication Studies
Portet, Celene H., Maitreise, Lecturer II in French
Prayoonhong, Chutiman, D.Arch., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Rogovic, Svetlana, Teacher of Foreign Languages, Lecturer II in Ukrainian Language and
Literature
Sandoval, Michael I., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Saveliev, Nikolai N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Scheker, Elka R., Master, Lecturer I in Spanish
Schindler, Petra S., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Schonle, Andreas X., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pre-19th Century Russian Literature
Schoonhoven, Richard D., A.B., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Seigneurie, Kenneth E., B.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Stephens, Sharon K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work
Tackett, Astrid E., M.S., Lecturer I in Spanish
Toumajan, Dickran, M.A., Lecturer II in Armenian Language and Literature
Werner, Caryn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Zevallos, Ann J., M.A.T., Lecturer I in Spanish
Zevallos-Aguilar, Ulises J., M.A., Lecturer II in Spanish
Medical School
Andreae, Margie C., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
September 15, 1995
Fessler, Kathryn B., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Gahagan, Sheila, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
Kirsch, Anita H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Krause, Christine W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, August 16, 1995
Lawrence, Linda L., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, October 1, 1995
LeDesai, Thuy, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine and Clinical Instructor II in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 1, 1995
Levine, John E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
Osawa, Yoichi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, November 1, 1995
School of Dentistry
Gould, Kari L., M.P.H., Lecturer in Dentistry
Hamilton, James C., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Law School
Jones, Lance R., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law
School of Music
Berg, Mark A., M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre
Minor, John, M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre, September 1, 1995
School of Nursing
Gregory, Lynn A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Hayes-Hall, Patricia T., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Kise, Kathy M., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
McDevitt, Susanne E., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Russell, Beth C., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing


172




October Meeting, 1995


School of Public Health
Philbert, Martin A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Toxicology
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Ray, Sibabrata, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Klein, Barbara D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems
Lending, Diane, B.A., Lecturer in Management Information Systems
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Mueller, Douglas A., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTION STAFF
Effective August 1, 1995
Medical School
Su, Grace L., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, (previously reported as Lecturer)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Rasul, Jawaid W., from Assistant Professor of Physics to Lecturer in Physics
Medical School
Clark, Nina M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, October 1, 1995
Eisbruch, Avraham, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology
Herzog, Susan B., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Physiology
School of Nursing
Fitzpatrick, Michelle M., from Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing to Clinical Nurse IV,
University of Michigan Hospitals, October 2, 1995
College of Pharmacy
Couch, Patricia, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy to Clinical Professor I of
Pharmacy, August 21, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Reaves, Natalie D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Economics
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Woehrle, Kathleen L., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Social Work
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1-December 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Buning, Harm, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering
College of Engineering
Glysson, Eugene A., Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Orlin, Louis L., Professor Emeritus of Ancient Near Eastern History and Literature
Shaffer, Robert L., the Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor Emeritus
of Fungal Taxonomy and Curator Emeritus of, July 1, 1995-December 31, 1996


173




October Meeting, 1995


Shafter, Edward M. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities
Stebbins, William C., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, and
Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1995-January 31, 1996
Teske, Richard G., Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
Law School
Reed, John W., the Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Sullivan, Joseph E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Cox, Kendall B., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Philosophy
Curtis, Theodore T., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Sociology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1-December 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bernstein, Marc S., Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies, duty off campus,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Blouin, Francis X., Director, Bentley Historical Library, Professor of Information and
Library Studies, with tenure, School of Information and Library Studies, and Professor
of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Bound, John, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Brusati, Celeste A., Associate Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Colas, Santiago, Assistant Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature and
Comparative Literature, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Coucouvanis, Dimitri N., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Eccles, Jacquelynne S., Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School
of Education, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Faraway, Julian J., Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Francis, Anthony H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Hegyi, Dennis J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Heirick, Jane R., Lecturer III in Music, Residential College, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Johnson, Susan L., Assistant Professor of History, leave without salary, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
Li, Boa Qin, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary, September 1, 1995=
May 31, 1996
Lohmann, Kyger C., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
MacDonald, Michael P., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Meyers, Philip A., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Muirhead, Robb J., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Mukasa, Samuel B., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Porter, James I., Associate Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, with
tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Porter, Richard C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Robertson, Jennifer E., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave


174




October Meeting, 1995


Shaffer, Greg E., Assistant Professor of Economics, duty off campus, September 1, 1994~
December 31, 1995
Shappirio, David G., Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1995
Varian, Hal R., Professor of Economics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
College of Engineering
Brake, Mary L., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, extended sick leave, September 22-October 15, 1995
Klaver, Peter R., Associate Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Mathes, John C., Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, retirement furlough
Tien, Tseng-Ying, Professor of Materials Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-May 31, 1995
Medical School
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1995-August 31, 1996
Morley, George W., the Norman F. Miller Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with
tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1996-December 31, 1997
Schteingart, David E., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1996
Steude, Georgine M., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, retirement furlough, September 1, 1995-August 31, 1997
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Chaffers, James A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, duty off campus
Rycus, Mitchell J., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-October 20, 1995
School of Art
Baird, Kenneth W., Professor of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
School of Business Administration
Hosmer, LaRue T., Professor of Corporate Strategy, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Oswald, Lynda J., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Paul, Jonathan M., Assistant Professor of Finance, contract leave, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
Spivey, W. Allen, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and the Clare E. Griffin Professor of
Business Administration, retirement furlough, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Wheeler, James E., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, phased retirement,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1999
Wright, David W., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
School of Dentistry
Hacker, Corrine H., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, leave without salary,
September 7-November 11, 1995
School of Information and Library Studies
Durrance, Joan C., Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Law School
Kamisar, Yale, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave


175




October Meeting, 1995


School of Public Health
Cornell, Richard G., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1995-January 31, 1996
Garabrant, David H., Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of
Public Health, and Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, without tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995 and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1996
School of Social Work
Barbarin, Oscar A., III, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Axsom, Richard H., Professor of Art History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Baumgarten, Elias, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January
1-April 30, 1996
Clark, Elaine G., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1996
Cohn, Thomas S., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Gardner, Gerald T., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1996
Garland, Frank, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Hughes, Paul M., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1996
Mazian, Florence I., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Cowan, D. Ross, Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Blakely, Everett J., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Boys, Donald W., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Faires, Nora H., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Hansen, Kristina D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Marsh, William M., Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, and the David M. French
Professor, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Mawby, Carolyn M., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Nas, Tevfilk F., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Perlman, Ellis B., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Provost, Consuela M., Professor of English and Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Rinne, Carl H., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, leave without salary, January
1-May 31, 1996
Rubenstein, Bruce A., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Towsley, Ann E., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September
1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Webb, Nancy C., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bell, John C., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996


176




October Meeting, 1995


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barinova, Galina, Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, retired, April 30, 1995
Bodenbender, Brian E., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, resigned, April 30, 1995
Buchbinder, Jane, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, resigned,
August 31, 1995
Drummond, Carl N.Jr., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, resigned, August 31, 1994
Gates, Bronwen, Lecturer II in Biology, resigned, September 30, 1995
Hill-Collins, Patricia, University of Michigan Presidential Professor of Women's Studies and
African-American and African Studies, term complete, December 31, 1994
Isaacson, Helen, Lecturer II in English, retired, December 31, 1995
Martin-Esker, Amanda A., Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete, December 31, 1994
Quandt, Kim S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete, December 31, 1994
Smith, Neil D., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, term complete, August 31, 1995
Thompson, Gregory K., Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete, December 31, 1994
Medical School
Boland, C. Richard, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, resigned, August 20, 1995
Cosio, Margaret, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, September 8, 1995
Gordon, Tobey R., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, resigned, September 20, 1995
Grady-Benson, John C., Instructor in Surgery, resigned, August 31, 1995
Johnson, Arlan T., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, resigned, September 15, 1995
Law School
Snow, Mary A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, term complete, August 31, 1995
School of Nursing
Kahn, David L., Assistant Professor of Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1995
There were no retirements, deaths, or degree actions this month.
Consent Agenda Approved. On             a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent
Agenda.
Financial Report for the University of Michigan for the Year Ended
June 30, 1995
Executive Vice President Womack submitted the summary version of
the Financial Report for the year ended June 30, 1995.
Alternative Asset Investments
Regent Horning moved that $10 million of the Long Term Portfolio be
committed to Douglas Emmett Realty Fund 1995, pending completion of due
diligence and favorable review of the documents for their legal acceptability
by the general counsel. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe VII, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the
University has committed $15 million to Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe
VII, L.P., after previously having invested $10 million in Welsh, Carson,
Anderson & Stowe VI, L.P. This is consistent with the Regentally-approved


177




October Meeting, 1995


policy that would allow a follow-on investment in a new fund sponsored by a
previously approved partnership provided the new fund has the same investment strategy and core investment personnel as the prior fund.
E.H. Krause Building Laboratory Renovations
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved renovations for laboratories in the E. H.
Kraus Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
School of Medicine Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanner
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved installation of a third Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (MRI) unit to support research activity on the B2 level of University
Hospital, along with submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health.
Intercollegiate Athletics Yost Ice Arena Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved increasing the scope of a previously approved
renovation project for Yost Ice Arena, as well as the following amendment to
the financing resolution:
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN RESOLUTION
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING ISSUANCE AND SALE
OF NOT TO EXCEED $5,000,000 VARIABLE RATE DEMAND
INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 1995
WHEREAS, on September 22, 1995, the Regents of the University of Michigan
adopted its "Resolution Authorizing Issuance and Sale of Not to Exceed $5,000,000 Variable
Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1995" (the "Resolution"),
authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in the principal amount of not to exceed
$5,000,000 to finance the cost of construction and equipping of a tennis center facility and
providing for the payment and security of the bonds and other matters relating thereto; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to amend the Resolution to add an additional component to
the Project (as defined in the Resolution), consisting of renovations to and remodeling of the
Yost Ice Arena, including related furnishings and equipment:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan, as follows:
1. The first WHEREAS clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to
include within the definition of the "Project" renovations to and remodeling of
the Yost Ice Arena, including related furnishings and equipment, so that the term
"Project" shall mean as used throughout the Resolution, the construction and
equipping of a tennis center facility, and the above described renovations to and
remodeling of Yost Ice Arena.
2. Amended hereby, the Resolution is hereby ratified and confirmed.


178




October Meeting, 1995


Parking Services 1996 Annual Maintenance Program
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the Parking Services 1996 annual maintenance
program, as described in the Regents Communication.
1996-97 and 1997-98 State Budget Requests for All Three Campuses
Regent Power moved approval of the 1996-97 and 1997-98 State Budget
Requests for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint Campuses. Regent McFee
seconded the motion. She commented on the importance of these requests
and complimented the staff on the requests' presentation and content. In
particular, she noted the importance of the Institute for Educational Innovation in K-12 that is described in the Ann Arbor Campus document.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Purchasing Contract with Fitness Finders, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Deitch, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved the University's entering into a
purchasing contract with Fitness Finders, Inc. Because two University
employees, Charles T. and Beth A. Kuntzleman, are also co-owners of Fitness
Finders, Inc., this contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Fitness Finders, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support in a cost effective manner the Blue
Cross-Blue Shield funded Fitness for Youth program, participated in by
some employees of the University's Division of Kinesiology, include the
following purchases during the current academic year from Fitness Finders,
Inc.:
534 Mileage Club Packets  $ 2,856.90
45 Coordinator Packets    240.75
12 Skill-A-Week Programs   120.00
87 Mega Mileage Club Kits  3,654.00
Shipping                   140.00
Total                   $ 7,002.65
3.  Charles T. and Beth A. Kuntzleman's pecuniary interest arises from their
positions as co-owners of Fitness Finders, Inc.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the University
of Georgia
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved the University's entering into an
agreement with the University of Georgia. The agreement involves two
grants from the National Institutes of Health that were transferred from the
University of Georgia to the University of Michigan because the principal
investigator (Dr. Denise Park) and her principal collaborator (Dr. Roger
Morrell) moved to the University of Michigan from    the University of


179




October Meeting, 1995


Georgia. Because both contracts involve sub-contracts to the University of
Georgia, and Drs. Park and Morrell retain adjunct faculty status there, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the University
of Georgia.
2.  The terms of the agreement are as follows: Under Project 1 a total subcontract of approximately $125,000 is planned for the period August 1, 1995
through January 31, 1997. Under Project 2 a total subcontract of $341,120
is planned for the period August 1, 1995 through July 31, 1998. The
University's standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.  Neither Dr. Denise Park nor Dr. Roger Morrell will receive any compensation from the University of Georgia.
Instructional Technology Integration Center (ITIC)
President Duderstadt circulated a brochure describing the "media union"
that is occurring at ITIC.
M-Quality Expo
The president announced that the University's second M-Quality Expo
was currently underway in the Michigan Union, and he and Executive Vice
President Womack encouraged the Regents and executive officers to attend
following the meeting.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President Hartford
said that the final draft of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities will be ready for Regental action at the November meeting.
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
President Duderstadt reported that proposed changes to the bylaws
regarding the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics should be ready
for consideration by the Board at the November meeting. Vice President
Harrison reminded the Regents that prior to the Regents actually acting on
proposed bylaw changes, there is a required period for public notice and
comment, and that discussion of the topic might not occur before the December meeting.
Regents' Meeting on Flint Campus
Regent McFee commented that the meeting on the Flint Campus had
been extremely worthwhile and pleasurable, and observed that the Flint
Campus "had the right chancellor at the right campus at the right time."


180




October Meeting, 1995


Adjournment
There being no further discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 10:10
a.m. The next meeting will be held on November 16 and 17, 1995. Regents'
expenses recorded in the month of September 1995 totaled $1,159.46.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


181




SPECIAL MEETING, NOVEMBER 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
November 8, 1995
A special meeting of the Board of Regents commenced via telephone
conference call at 6:00 p.m. Present were Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Regent McFee joined the call at
6:15 p.m. Also present were Vice President Harrison, Secretary Palmer, and
General Counsel Cole.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on November 8, 1995, for the purpose of considering
material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Horning seconded the motion and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


182




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 16, 1995
The Regents met at 10:05 a.m. in the Welker Room of the Michigan
Union. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Horning,
McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Power. Secretary Palmer, Provost Machen,
Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Harrison and
Hartford were also present. Vice Presidents Kinnear and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick were absent; Regents Deitch and Varner arrived after
the start of the meeting.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and recognized Regent
Horning, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session at 10:00 a.m. on November 16, 1995, and reconvene
at 7:30 a.m. on October 20, 1995, for the purposes of considering
material exempt from discussion or disclosur   e by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material
consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously,
The meeting then continued in executive session.
The meeting reconvened in public session at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents'
Room.   Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch,
Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner.       Secretary
Palmer, Provost Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellor Nelms were also
present. Chancellor Renick arrived at about 2:30 p.m.; Provost Simpson
attended in his stead until that time.
President's Report
President Duderstadt commented on the recent appointment of Lloyd
Carr as head football coach, noting that this highlights the extraordinary
attention paid by the media to intercollegiate athletics at Michigan and also
highlights why intercollegiate athletics is important to higher education. He
observed that the fact that college sports has become a major form of entertainment for the public at large has led to many of the current difficulties in
intercollegiate athletics. One reason this has become difficult to control is
that the organizations set up to control intercollegiate athletics, particularly
the NCAA, have had great difficulty in coping with the extraordinary
pressure exerted by the media and the public.


183




November Meeting, 1995


The president noted that in recent years, university presidents have
taken steps to reassert their control over intercollegiate athletics and to
better align them with the academic philosophy and purpose of universities.
One such proponent of such activity was the Knight Commission, which
spelled out the following fundamental principles:  that the educational
values, practices, and missions of the institution would determine the
standards by which intercollegiate athletics were conducted; that the responsibility and authority for the administration of the athletic department are
vested in the president and through the president, to the Board of Regents;
that the welfare, health, and safety of student athletics are primary concerns
of athletics; and that every student athlete will receive equitable and fair
treatment.
The University is currently undergoing a major certification effort in
which its programs are being examined in a peer review process in cooperation with the NCAA. President Duderstadt announced that at the NCAA
annual meeting in January, a proposal will be on the ballot that would
restructure the NCAA from an association into a federation. That would
mean that the three principle divisions would become separate entities and
would develop their own internal structures to govern their behavior. He
pointed out that with its current structure, the NCAA doesn't well serve the
large institutions commonly associated with Division IA. The Division I
institutions would be governed by an executive board comprised of presidents, eight of whom would come from the eight major conferences. This
move is seen as the next logical step in the effort to align college sports with
the academic mission of the institutions; if this proposal is not successful, the
president suggested that the NCAA may cease to exist.
Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack deferred to Vice President Kinnear,
who said that in response to Regental request, there would be a presentation
on planned giving (trusts and bequests). He turned the floor over to Ms.
Kathy Okun, director of trusts and bequests in the Office of Development,
and Mr. Norman Herbert, University treasurer, who gave a presentation
about planned giving opportunities currently available at the University of
Michigan, as well as recent performance figures and portfolio values.
Following the presentation, Vice President Kinnear observed that some
of the vehicles mentioned in the presentation as issues to be considered for
the future will require Regental approval.
Presidential Search Activities
Provost Machen presented two proposed plans for scheduling public fora
for the Regents to receive input on the presidential search, in response to the
Regents' request to him, Secretary Palmer, and Vice President Harrison at
the October Regents' Meeting. Plan Two is identical to Plan One, except for
the inclusion of two additional fora to be held in western Michigan and


184




November Meeting, 1995


metropolitan Detroit. The proceedings would be recorded for the benefit of
any Regents who might not be able to attend all of the fora.
Regent McGowan noted that consistent with the Regents' invitation for
public input issued at the last meeting, Plan Two is preferable as it extends
the opportunity for accessibility to the widest array of the University's
constituency. Regent Newman concurred. It was decided that it would be
preferable to conclude all of the fora before the January 1996 Regents'
meeting, if possible.
Regent McGowan moved approval of proposed Public Forum Schedule
Plan Two, which calls for the scheduling of nine fora to be concluded by
January 1996. Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Provost Machen proposed that written communication be solicited from
a range of constituencies in the form of a letter from the Board of Regents to
be published as an advertisement in a variety of publications. The letter
would serve the purpose of announcing the fora schedule and would provide
mailing and electronic mail addresses for the submission of public input. All
correspondence received will be copied and bound in notebooks and provided
to the Regents and will be considered public documents consistent with the
Freedom of Information Act.
Regent Power asked what the Regents wanted the public to write to
them about, noting that in previous discussions, three main topics had
emerged: 1) the needs of the University in the years to come; 2) what qualities should be sought in the next president; and 3) what kind of search
should be undertaken.
Provost Machen responded that several drafts in response to this
question have been proposed, each with various nuances. Regent Power
stated that it would be important to state the nature of the Regents'
concerns, rather than invite generalized comment. Provost Machen noted
that this document would be brought before the Regents for approval before
being placed in the public domain.
There followed a discussion of what publications would be used to advertise the public fora; the original suggestions had been the Michigan Daily,
the Michigan Review, the Black Student Monthly, the University Record, the
Michigan Alumnus, and Michigan Today. In response to a question from
Regent McFee about the advisability of advertising in more general public
newspapers, Regent Newman observed that most newspapers will publish
notices of public meetings free of charge. Provost Machen pointed out that
the short time frame for holding the student campus forum prior to the end
of classes might preclude some forms of advertising.
Finally, Provost Machen noted that the report requested by the Regents
about how presidential searches have been conducted at peer institutions, as


185




November Meeting, 1995


well as at the University of Michigan in the past, would be presented to the
Regents at the December meeting.
Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs
(SACUA)
President Duderstadt introduced Professor George Brewer, chair of
SACUA, to present his report. Professor Brewer gave an overview of the
faculty governance system, noting that while it is advisory, it is wellorganized, comprehensive, and capable of giving the perspective of the
faculty on all areas of University activity.
Professor Brewer thanked President Duderstadt for his service and
leadership on behalf of the faculty. He noted that the quality of the faculty is
the most important determinant of the quality of the University, and that
the University of Michigan has a great faculty. The two keys to developing
maintaining a great university are to recruit excellent faculty and to provide
an environment in which they have an opportunity to excel.
He described the keys to an optimal academic environment for faculty as
an open intellectual climate, the time and resources to develop their scholarship, and an administration that accepts the faculty as partners in charting
the best course for the university. Overall, Professor Brewer asserted that
the environment at the University of Michigan is excellent for faculty.
Professor Brewer noted that perhaps the most important task facing the
new president will be to preserve and even to enhance that environment. Of
paramount concern is that the president come from an academic background,
grounded in scholarship, teaching, and research in order to appreciate and
preserve the University's greatness.  Regarding the presidential search,
Professor Brewer noted that while a closed search is against the law, a search
conducted entirely in the open would fail to turn up the kind of candidates
needed to preserve the University's greatness. He reported that the faculty
had suggested to the Regents a search process modeled after the recent
provost search. This would consist of a faculty advisory committee with
alumni and student representation to provide a list of candidates from which
the Regents could conduct the search in an open manner. He stated that the
general counsel's office had advised SACUA that this approach would comply
with the law, but could not guarantee against a suit. If the Regents do what
is legal and best for the University, he said that the faculty would be supportive.
Professor Brewer reported that "the faculty will accept nothing less than
doing what's best for the University."  He warned that the faculty "has
bitten before and can bite again.  If an unqualified president is rammed
down our throats and soon exhibits those lack of qualifications, the Senate
Assembly is fully capable of rendering a vote of no confidence." Professor
Brewer then observed that he had great respect for each of the Regents as
individuals, but that now it was important for them to function as a team.
This means that each individual must suppress some personal tendencies for


186




November Meeting, 1995


the overall good of the team. He had full confidence that the Regents would
do a good job in the challenge ahead because of their individual personal
strengths and the fact that they each valued the future of the University so
highly.
Proposed Code of Student Conduct
Vice President Hartford invited to the table the students who had been
involved in the drafting of the most current draft of the proposed Code of
Student Conduct. She noted that Dean Jeffrey Lehman of the Law School
would be joining the group and commenting at a later point.
Vice President Hartford noted that two members of the student work
group, Kim Wilson, a senior in LS&A, and Margaret Kinnear, a senior at
Emory University, could not be present. She introduced the other students
as Jack Bernard, a recent graduate of the Law School; Emi Nakazato, a
recent graduate of LS&A; Kenneth Sachs, a senior in LS&A; Christopher
Hodges, a junior in LS&A and the representative from the Civil Liberties
Board; Sean McCabe-Plius, a graduate student in a dual-degree M.S.W. and
Ph.D. program; and Larry LaTarte, a senior in LS&A.
Each student spoke to the Board about various aspects of how the
committee went about its work of drafting a new code. Mr. Bernard concentrated on how the charge to the group, which described the type of code that
was desired, had provided challenges and opportunities in drafting the new
code; Ms. Nakazato, Mr. Sachs, and Mr. Hodges described the methods the
group had used to receive input and feedback; Mr. McCabe-Plius described
the background research done by the group to become familiar with the
issues involved, and Mr. LaTarte reviewed some of the specific examples of
feedback the group had received.
Following the work group's presentations, Dean Jeffrey Lehman spoke
in more general terms about codes of conduct. He noted that every community has some type of code, along with sanctions for when its norms are
violated. He observed that there is a relationship among community codes of
conduct, as people belong to more than one community and must therefore
adhere to more than one code, whether written or not. He enumerated some
of the communities that exist at the University, as well as some of the codes
of conduct, implicit and explicit, that its members are subject to. He gave
examples of some of the conditions and codes of conduct as they apply at the
Law School.
Dean Lehman observed that it is important to have written procedures
that protect members of a community from arbitrary and capricious conduct
on the part of the institution, and it is also important to preserve common
law authority to deal with concerns that might not have been anticipated by
the drafters of a written code. He also believes that even though individual
units might have their own student conduct codes, it would be helpful for the
University as a whole to have a general code of student conduct.


187




November Meeting, 1995


Dean Lehman had reviewed the current code draft from his perspective
as dean of the Law School, and observed that the following aspects of it are
most important to him: 1) Vice President Hartford, her staff, and students
have worked diligently on the document and are happy with it, believing it to
be broad, inclusive, and responsive to the Regents' concerns; 2) the code does
not pre-empt or displace unit-based codes of conduct, such as the one that
governs the Law School; 3) and there will be ample opportunity to amend the
document as experience is gained with it.
Vice President Hartford and President Duderstadt expressed their gratitude to the work group and to Dean Lehman. Mr. Flint Wainess, president
of Michigan Student Assembly (MSA) joined the group to respond to
questions. In response to a question from Regent Newman, Mr. Wainess
stated that he did not have any prepared remarks about the proposed code.
In response to Regent Power's question about his role as MSA president and
MSA's role institutionally in the drafting of the code, Mr. Wainess stated
that the MSA did not have any institutional role in the drafting of the
document with the work group. However, through his membership on the
Student Relations Committee of SACUA, he became involved in the process
after the work group had submitted its recommendations to Vice President
Hartford. Through that involvement, a number of changes were made.
Mr. McCabe-Plius observed that the work group felt it was important to
provide opportunities for input; however, some groups chose not to participate.
Mr. Wainess reported that MSA had voted to encourage the Regents not
to impose any code that exceeds federal and state mandates. MSA also had
expressed support for some changes that had been made from the old Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities to the new Code of Student
Conduct and suggested some additional changes.
Regent Power noted that the Regents had received a letter from SACUA
about the code; Vice President Hartford pointed out that she had not been
invited to discuss the document with SACUA.
Regent Deitch asked the students why they believe a code is needed at
this time, and why the adoption of the code would improve student life.
Mr. Bernard responded that their mandate had been to develop a code,
not whether or not there should be a code. Therefore, the group had not
addressed the issue of whether or not a code was necessary.
Regent McGowan agreed with this assessment.      Regent Deitch
concurred, but said he was interested in the students' views about the code.
Noting that he believes that questions that deal with issues unique to this
community are appropriate for codification, he asked Dean Lehman for his
view on aspects of the code that deal with behaviors that are otherwise
covered by the law.


188




November Meeting, 1995


Dean Lehman responded that the law might impose one set of sanctions
that are appropriate to the interests of the state of Michigan, and the
University might decide as a community that some behaviors mean
something different to its community than they do to the state. The University might decide that its norms and values call for a set of rules and potential sanctions that are special to it and that these are what makes it different
from the state. For example, whether or not the state chooses to punish a
student who falsifies information on an application, the University has a
powerful interest in punishing such a student.
Regent McFee noted that in her opinion, including some actions in the
code that are also considered crimes by the state provides an opportunity to
address some issues in a less severe and more educational manner than
taking someone to court.
Regent Baker wondered whether a student who was found innocent in a
court of a law for a crime but then punished by the University for the same
action would be subject to double jeopardy. Dean Lehman responded that
when people are members of multiple communities, they are subject to the
codes of each community. For instance, if someone commits a crime punishable by both state and federal law, he/she could be acquitted under state law
and convicted under federal law. He also pointed out that standards might
be different for the different communities.
Building upon Regent Deitch's previous question to the work group as
to whether they felt a code was necessary and how they believed it would
improve the lives of students, Regent Baker asked the work group members
if there was anyone in the group who did not favor the idea of a code.
Mr. Hodges responded that he initially had believed the whole notion of
a code was unnecessary. However, as he had learned more about codes and
worked on the draft, his opinion had changed, and he now stands behind the
draft created by the group. He had come to the realization that there are
many issues that the University is better equipped to handle than are the
courts, and that it is in a position to protect students, rather than harm
them. In general, he believes this is a good code.
Regent Baker said that he believes the students who developed the code
should be willing to state whether they endorse it or not.
President Duderstadt recalled that the Regents had specifically stated
that there would be a code, and the only issue was whether it would be
written by the Regents or students. Vice President Hartford pointed out
that both the Dearborn and Flint campuses already had codes in place; the
document under consideration would apply only to the Ann Arbor campus.
Regent Power also supported Regent McGowan's and the president's
point that the Regents had stated very clearly that there would be a code.
Regent Deitch stated that he had no problem with the notion of a code as it
relates to academic issues, as well as the requirements of federal law that


189




November Meeting, 1995


there be a code in place. However, he was wrestling with the notion of
whether this code would make student life better at Michigan, and he was
interested in the views of the students who drafted it.
Mr. Hodges responded that he believed that the code would make life
better for students because 1) it serves as a grievance procedure to protect
students from other students; 2) the jurisdiction is much better defined than
in the previous version, which is helpful to students; 3) the University makes
an effort to work with students, providing various options in the area of
sanctions and in using mediation as the primary means of resolving conflicts.
This will make it function more like a grievance procedure than a more
punitive system.
Mr. Bernard also pointed out that this code goes beyond the requirements of the law in providing due process, giving the students more opportunities to think about the issues and to learn from the process. It thereby
gives students more protections than they would have under the previous
code or if there were no code.
Another student pointed out that this code gives an opportunity to
students to define their own community and their own values. It is positive
for students because it provides clearly defined expectations of the values of
the community.
Vice President Hartford referred to a document first issued by the
American Association of University Professors, the U.S. Students Association, the National Association of Student Affairs, and the AAU, in 1967: "A
Joint Statement on the Rights and Responsibilities of Students."  This
document clearly stated that universities should have standards of conduct,
noting that in communities of teaching and learning there are some behaviors that might also be violations of law but that also get in the way of both
teaching and learning. It is those kinds of behaviors that we should seek to
stop, although perhaps in a different fashion than courts of law.
Regent Power stated that he was impressed by this version of the code,
because it reflects the input of students and seeks to bring forward the
values which they wish to codify to deal with their lives as members of an
academic community. In response to his question of how many contacts had
been received in the form of feedback from students, a committee member
responded that about 500 contacts had been received from students, of the
total of 1,000 contacts.
Presidential Search Process
Regent McGowan noted that Professor Brewer had asserted that the
general counsel's office had taken a position on a model he had proffered as a
process for the presidential search. She requested that General Counsel Cole
respond to those comments.
Ms. Cole reported that the general counsel's office "has not endorsed
any particular approach regarding how to conduct the presidential search,


190




November Meeting, 1995


nor has it examined in depth and subsequently issued any opinion regarding
any particular procedure to use in doing that search."
Regent McGowan commented that while the Regents are genuinely
seeking input from the community on how to design a search procedure that
will best serve the University, there are certain legal limitations that
preclude the ability to start with a totally blank slate.
Regent Newman made the following response to Professor Brewer's
comments:
"I think we all collectively believe that SACUA's comments are
very important to the search process, as we believe all faculty input is
very important However, we are troubled with the tone in which a
portion of your comments were delivered.    Especially in a
community- wide search process, threats are unnecessary and out of
place.  This Board takes its responsibility very seriously and
appreciates constructive comments which can and will add to the
search process."
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 4:10 p.m. in the Anderson
Room of the Michigan Union to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics
indicated: Brandon Riordan, student and board member of the Student
Buyer's Association (SBA), on SBA's office space in the Michigan Union; and
Anne Marie Ellison, student, Devorah Adler, student, Mary H. Rave, president of the Washtenaw County branch of the ACLU, Eugene Feingold, ACLU
board member, and Sallie R. Churchill, ACLU board member on the topic of
the Code of Student Conduct.
Friday, November 17, 1995
The Regents met at 9:00 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner.       Secretary Palmer, Provost
Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison,
Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick were also
present.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called the
Regents' attention to a report describing the progress of the first year of the
Michigan Agenda for Women.
Presidential Search Committee
The president called on Regent Newman, who read the following
resolution:


191




November Meeting, 1995


Resolved, that pursuant to the provisions in Section 1.07 of
the Bylaws of the Board of Regents, a committee of the whole to be
known as the Presidential Search Committee consisting of Regents
Deane Baker, Laurence B. Deitch, Daniel D. Horning, Shirley M.
McFee, Rebecca McGowan, Andrea Fischer Newman, Philip H. Power,
and Nellie M  Varner, or the successor in ofice of each such person,
be and is hereby established.
The Committee shall consider all matters in connection with
selecting a president and shall have the power and authority to take
such steps and perform such acts as may be necessary and proper to
carry out its assignment.
The Committee shall elect such chairpersons as may be
appropriate.
Regent Horning seconded the motion. Regent McFee commented that
the committee will meet in public in the same manner as is done for its
regular business meetings. The purpose of the committee is to set forth the
framework of the search and to determine how to proceed. The establishment of this committee does not preclude establishing other advisory
committees; its purpose is provide a framework within which to operate to
make such decisions.
Regent Baker reiterated that the Regents intend to bring into the
process the various elements of the University committee.
The vote was then taken and the resolution was approved unanimously.
Regent McGowan nominated Regent Nellie Varner as co-chair of the
Presidential Selection Committee. Regent Deitch seconded the nomination,
noting that "the University of Michigan has no more distinguished daughter
than Nellie Varner." The nomination was approved unanimously.
Regent Horning nominated Regent Shirley McFee as co-chair of the
Presidential Selection Committee. Regent Newman seconded the nomination, noting Regent McFee's long history of service to her community and
the University. The motion was approved unanimously.
Regents Varner and McFee both expressed their appreciation for the
confidence shown by the other Regents in selecting them as co-chairs of the
committee.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the October 10,
1995 special meeting and the October 19-20 regular meeting for approval.
Reports. Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on
investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. With
regard to the endowment and long term portfolio funds, he observed that


192




November Meeting, 1995


with the market at historically high levels, a correction should be expected to
occur at some point.
Vice   President Neal submitted          reports on     projects established       and
summaries of a selection of current research and sponsored projects for the
month of October 1995.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of
voluntary support for October 1995. He noted that with 75 percent of the
time having passed, the Campaign for Michigan is at 92 percent of its goal.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................       7,500
Jay and Maryanne Alix Foundation, Southfield
for the Cancer Center in  the Medical School........................................ 14,200
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute............... 220,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..........................................6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division.......................... 66,620
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................... 13,056
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................15,000
Anonymous Donor
for scholarship support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School......... 200,000
Aramco Services Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porus Media
in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School................................................12,750
Rodney S. W. Basler, Lincoln, Nebraska
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship................................. 40,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
127 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5,628
M. E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia, Canada
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and for
the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in
memory of Howard E. Bigelow...............................................   6,000
Peter F. Borish, New York, New York
for support in the School of Public Policy..........................................10,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute............. 14,990
BP America, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
em ployee  m atching  gifts......................................................... 10,100
Richard D. Brezina Trust
for support in  the School of Nursing.............................................. 78,496
Margaret K. Brigham, Evart
for the Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the Medical School.............. 20,000
James R. Browne, Houston, Texas
100 shares of Chase Manhattan common stock
for tax policy research in the School of Business Administration...................... 6,325
Fred M. Brubaker, Pennington, New Jersey
170 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy......................... 12,729
Alfred H. Burwitz Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................ 100,000


193




November Meeting, 1995


Roderick Campbell, Dearborn
for the Save A Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School........................10,000
Campbell Soup Company, Camden, New Jersey
for Community Health Programs support in the School of Public Health................5,000
Cardiac Rhythm Management Research Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for cardiology research in the Medical School....................................... 20,000
Robert C. Christensen, Kingsport, Tennessee
200 shares of Sonoco Products Company common stock
for support in  the  M edical School........................................ 5,638
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for research in the College of Engineering................................   460,000
Colgate-Palmolive Company, New York, New York
for support in the School of Dentistry..................................36,013
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for student aid, School of Business Administration, and for employee matching gifts....... 5,455
Coopers & Lybrand, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.......7,500
May W. Corby, Rockville Center, New York
100 shares of Pfizer common stock
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 5,600
Marilyn Mayer Culpepper, Lansing
300 shares of Michigan National Corporation common stock
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.......................... 32,831
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 19,750
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the Devlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering.............. 21,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund........................................... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship, the Cooperative
Education Program and other support in the College of Engineering.................. 14,500
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 40,00
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute...... 10,000
Geneva M. Ellwood Estate
8 shares of Groundstar Resources, Ltd., common stock and a cash gift for the
Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, and for Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H.
Rackham   School of Graduate Studies............................................  441,584
Envision, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Eldred E. Evans, Prairie Village, Kansas
for the Eldred E. Evans Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Engineering..................................................... 20,000
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 100,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for support in  the College of Engineering..........................................27,000
Ernestine Fields Estate
for the Ernestine Fields Scholarship in the School of Music..........................15,184
Stanley E. Fleszar Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 10,527
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Policy.......................................  200,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for metallic materials research in the College of Engineering and for the
Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School.................................... 54,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program Summer Projects
Fund in the School of Business Administration.................................... 10,000
John M. Forelle, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 20,000


194




November Meeting, 1995


Dale P. Fosdick, Saline
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund..........................................  5,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Social Work................ 22,500
Donald N. Frey, Evanston, Illinois
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering................... 10,000
Fujisawa USA, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................ 14,000
Stanley Garn, Ann Arbor
20 units of the EF Hutton Texas EX NTL Investment Trust
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.......................... 9,563
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Library Development Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint................. 40,000
Charlotte Geyer Foundation, Williamsville, New York
for research in the Medical School.........................................25,000
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, DC
for history support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 5,000
Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, DC
for support of the Law School.................................................... 5,000
Gralnick Foundation, Rye Brook, New York
for the Gastrointestinal Peptide and Education Fund in the Medical School...........10,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the GTE Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration,
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of
Engineering and for employee matching gifts.......................................30,750
Sheila Ford Hamp, Dearborn
1,080 shares of Applix, Inc. and 692 shares of R F Monolithics common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics..................... 36,100
Gertrude G. Hewlett Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 35,000
Honeywell, Inc., Farmington Hills
for the C. S. Mott Golf Classic Benefit Fund........................................45,000
Max L. Hutt Trust
for support in the Medical School..............................................   102,000
James W. Hyde Estate
for the Class of 1904 Scholarship in the Law School.............................. 2,300,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering.................... 15,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Excellence II Fund in the College of Engineering............................. 40,000
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
for the Isaacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 10,000
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for course support in the College of Engineering..................................... 7,500
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School...................... 142,326
Larry L. Johnson, Orchard Lake
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  12,400
JVM and JKM Foundation, Wyckoff, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for the Junior Year in Freiburg Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and   the  Arts............................................................ 20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Public of Health and the University Libraries,
and  for employee matching gifts................................................  510,360
Constance M. Kinnear, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium   Restoration  Fund........................................... 5,000
Thomas C. Kinnear, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund........................................... 5,000
KPMG Peat Marwick, Montvale, New Jersey
for minority fellowships in the School of Public Policy................................ 5,000


195




November Meeting, 1995


Joel E. Krischer, Beverly Hills, California
for support of the Law School............................................5,000
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 7,500
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for support in the School of Music......7.......................  7,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 10,000
Lilly Endowment, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research  in  the School of Education........................................... 23,995
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund of the Fidelity Investment
Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusett;
for the Loganberry Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 15,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the School of Education.........................................  182,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southeast Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for the Jonas Salk Memorial Laboratory in the School of Public Health............... 25,000
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School....................................... 12,000
McGraw Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Max McGraw Professorship of Corporate Environmental Management
in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment..... 300,000
Robert E. Meader Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Bentley  Historical Library................................................ 25,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering, for the National
Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for research in the School of Nursing............................ 175,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Monroe-Brown Undergraduate Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of
Engineering, for the Monroe-Brown Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts; and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund........................ 120,000
Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration....................12,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School........................... 54,302
John M. Nannes, Washington, DC
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 15,000
National Endowment for the Arts, Washington, DC
for the  University  M usical Society................................................ 20,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................. 6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................27,493
NEC Corporation, Kanagawa, Japan
for the Solid State Engineering Laboratory in the College of Engineering............ 10,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in Physical Medicine
in  the  M edical School..........................................................  15,000
John F. and Ann L. Nickoll CDF of the Jewish Community
Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law  School.................................................... 12,000
Oliver M. Oakland Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund....................................21,000
John J. O'Leary, Green Valley, Arizona
18,018 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John J. and Mary C. O'Leary Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the  M edical School........................................................  1,054,470


196




November Meeting, 1995


Oral Health America, Chicago, Illinois
for the Cavity Free Clinic Fund in the School of Dentistry...........................25,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 25,000
Sam Pack's Lee Jarmon Ford, Carrollton, Texas
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 5,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 74,434
Peninsula Community Foundation, San Mateo, California
for program  support in the Law  School..........................................  100,000
Pharmacia, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
for the Cancer Center in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
employee matching gifts........................................................  5,250
QAD, Inc., Mount Laurel, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Katherine T. Ransel, Hickory Corners
75 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Cancer Center in  the Medical School......................................... 5,611
Barbara K. Reid Estate
for student aid  in  the Medical School............................................... 9,568
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in the Medical School....................... 6,250
Marguerite S. Roll, Battle Creek
2,500 shares of Smucker common stock and a cash gift
for the Lyle C. Roll Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......................... 100,010
Judith Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, and for the University Musical Society............... 6,000
Susan Ryback, Potomac, Maryland
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, in memory of Sol King..... 5,000
Saline Construction Company, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
Satech, Kirkland, Washington
for research in the Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering....................10,000
Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
for the Charles H. and Katharine C. Sawyer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the
M useum   of Art.................................................................  11,182
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.................. 226,500
Helen L. Schmutz Estate
for support in the Medical School............................. 750,000
Schneider National, Inc., Greenbay, Wisconsin
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
A dm inistration................................................................  11,250
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Charles Ward Seabury Research Fellowship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning..........................................................10,000
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
734 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the Minority Scholarship  Fund............................................ 19,772
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Loyal Crew Fund in the College of Engineering.............................. 5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences and physics support in the College of Literature,Science,
and the Arts, and for the Sea Grant/Industry Consortium Fund in the College
of  Engineering.................................................................  30,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Solovy Judaica Book Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
Telecom Analysis Systems, Inc., Eatontown, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 15,000
Doris H. Terwilliger Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Kent M. Terwilliger Dissertation Prize Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts............................................................. 5,000


197




November Meeting, 1995


Texaco, Inc., White Plains, New York
for the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health....... 5,000
Mary L. Tiffany, Ann Arbor
75 shares of Texas Instruments common stock
for the Physics Faculty and Alumni Fund, College of Literature, Science,and the Arts...... 6,070
Clayton M. Timmons, Farmington
for the Allen L. Shields Memorial Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................................   10,000
James M. Trapp, Winnetka, Illinois
200 shares of Motorola common stock
for capital support in the Law School..........................................   15,463
T.S.G. Ventures, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship and other support in the
School of Business Administration.............................................. 10,000
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for research in the Medical School...........................................   5,000
Union Carbide Corporation Chemicals & Plastics Group South Charleston, West Virginia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 5,000
United Airlines Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship, School of Business Administration....... 5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................26,250
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecturer Fund in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science,
and  the   A rts................................................................... 23,000
John C. Unkovic, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the  Law   School....................................................  5,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for research in the Center for the Education of Women............................... 5,000
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research  in the School of Public Health.......................................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Basic Organic Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, for biostatistics support in the School of Public Health, and for the Save A
Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School................ o......................45,436
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 13,103
W. Gerald Warren, Grosse Pointe Shores
for support of the Law School..................................................... 5,000
Warren/Conner Development Coalition, Detroit
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 16,500
Norman Williamson, Jr., Claremont, California
for the  Gargoyle  Scholarship...................................................... 5,000
Ferdinand B. Zienty, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Ferdinand B. Zienty Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Pharmacy................................................ 15,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Hugh D. Barnett, Springfield, Ohio
a 1968 Custom Flex sailboat with a trailer and other related equipment for Camp Michigania
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
a 1994 Plymouth Neon for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
a 1996 Ford Taurus; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Daniel H. Gilbert, Farmington Hills
a Hunter 22 sailboat with an outboard motor, a trailer and other related equipment for Camp
Michigania
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
an Intel computer systemfor the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
John G. Manikas, Ann Arbor
a Meyer aluminum boat with an outboard motor, a trailer and other related equipment for Camp
Michigania
Geraldine Ponte Markel, Ann Arbor
an oil on canvas painting, untitled, by Harry Nadler; for the Museum of Art
Reginald E. Whitcomb, Petoskey
two Mistral sailboards including rigging and extra sails; for Camp Michigania


198




November Meeting, 1995


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Naomi G. Campbell, Flint            Robert M. Lougheed, Ann Arbor
Gracia Clark, Ann Arbor             Donna W. Loundy, Glencoe, Illinois
John C. Dann, Dexter                Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor            Gardner I. Parsons, Hilton Head Island, South
Sharon C. Herbert, Ann Arbor             Carolina
James R. Horein, Fort Wayne, Indiana  Ann Stoler, Ann Arbor
Paul Lee, Highland                  Jack W. Thompson, Naples, Florida
James Lorenz, Tinton Falls, New Jersey  Chester H. Wilson, Flint
Personnel Actions. Provost Machen, Chancellor Nelms, and Chancellor
Renick submitted a number of personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1996
Guck, Marion A., Ph.D., Professor of Music (Music Theory)
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective December 1, 1995
Lee, Jan L., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995
Kotowicz, William E., Acting Dean, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Dentistry,
appointment extended as Acting Dean, School of Dentistry, two-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 19, 996 unless otherwise indicated
Drewnoski, Adam, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, also
appointed Professor of Psychology, without tenure, December 1, 1995
Ellison, Julie K., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Vice President for Research, two-year term
Gillespie, Carolyn M., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Chair, Department of Theatre, UM-Flint, August 15, 1995-June 30, 1998
Lippi-Green, Rosina, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, December 1, 1995
Richardson, Frank C., Professor of French, German, and Comparative Literature, with
tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of Foreign Languages,
UM-Flint, six-month term
Snyder, James C., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Dean for Administration, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, five-year term


199




November Meeting, 1995


Wixson, Karen K., Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean,
School of Education, three and one-half year term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Avigad, Jeremy D., the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
three-year term, September 1, 1995
Bole, Giles G. Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Dean, Medical School,
reappointed Dean, Medical School, one-year term, July 1, 1996
Farley, W. Reynolds, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, also appointed Otis Dudley Duncan
Collegiate Professor of Sociology, five-year term, July 1, 1995
Hsu, Timothy M., the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
three-year term, September 1, 1995
Nabel, Gary J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, also appointed the Henry Sewall Professor of Medicine,
five-year term, December 1, 1995
Owyang, Chung, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed the H. Marvin
Pollard Collegiate Professor of Gastroenterology, five-year term, December 1, 1995
Riggs, Donald E., Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, and Dean,
University Library, reappointed Dean, University Libraries, one-year term,
January 1, 1996
Sieving, Paul A., Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and the Paul R. Lichter Professor
of Ophthalmic Genetics, reappointed the Paul R. Lichter Professor of Ophthalmic
Genetics, five-year term, October 1, 1995
Associate Dean for Research. The Regents approved changing the
title of Assistant Dean for Research and Development in the School of Social
Work to Associate Dean for Research, effective July 1, 1996.
Ford Motor Company Co-Directorship. The Regents approved the
establishment of the endowed administrative position of Ford Motor Company
Co-Directorship, effective December 1, 1995.
George Granger Brown Professorship of Chemical Engineering.
The Regents approved a change in name of the George Granger Brown Assistant Professorship of Chemical Engineering to the George Granger Brown
Professorship of Chemical Engineering, effective December 1, 1995.
Herrick Professor of Manufacturing. The Regents approved the establishment of the Herrick Professor of Manufacturing, effective December 1, 1995.
William   Clay Ford Professorship of Manufacturing. The Regents
approved a change in the name of the William Clay Ford Professorship of
Product Manufacturing to the William Clay Ford Professorship of Manufacturing, effective December 1, 1995.
The following committee appointments were submitted:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Daniels, Danielle F., student representative, retroactively appointed, July 1, 1995 -June 30, 1997, vice Chris Veber, term expired
Pryor, Cecil L., alumni member, retroactively reappointed, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998


200




November Meeting, 1995


Committee on Honorary Degrees
Cramer, John F., student representative, retroactively, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1997, vice
Karen DeGannes, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
West, Edward, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996, vice Luiz 0. Gomez, unable to serve
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Barnard, Ruth M., retroactively appointed, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1996, vice Sally L. Lusk,
sabbatical leave
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Bolkosky, Sidney M., November 1, 1995-August 31, 1997, vice Leslie W. Tentler, resigned
Bord, Donald J., November 1-December 31, 1995, during tenure and promotion
deliberations, vice Linda E. Fisher
Hoft, Margret H., November 1-December 31, 1995, during tenure and promotion
deliberations, vice John A. Gillespie
Loeb, Roger C., November 1-December 31, 1995, during tenure and promotion deliberations,
vice Robert W. Hymes
Summers, Claude J., November 1-December 31, 1995, during tenure and promotion
deliberations, vice Sheryl S. Pearson
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Gikandi, Simon E., September 1, 1995-August 30, 1998, vice Laurence A. Goldstein, term
expired
Gocek, Fatma M., September 1, 1995-August 30, 1998, vice Earl Lewis, term expired
Lindner, Rudi P., September 1, 1995-August 30, 1998, vice William I. Miller, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Hart, Stuart L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ceballo, Rosario, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Granzow-de la Cerda, Inigo, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, January 1, 1996
Mattis, Jacqueline S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Pasakarnis, Helen A., B.A., Lecturer II in Communication Studies
Tepaske-King, Susan L., M.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Medical School
Becton, William W., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, October 1, 1995
Raner, Gregory M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry
Russell, James W., M.B.Ch.B., Lecturer in Neurology, October 16, 1995
Thomas, Pamela M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
November 1, 1995
School of Public Health
Rochford, Rosemary A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, January 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Zhu, Qiang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science


201




November Meeting, 1995


CHANGE TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 17, 1995
Medical School
Kurtz, Ron M., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology (previously reported as Lecturer)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
TRANSFERS, OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Chenoweth, Carol E., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health
D'Errico, Celia M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology,
July 1, 1995
Evans, Jeffrey E., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Ramos-Cortes, Edwardo, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, July 1, 1995
Richardson, James K., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Rosenberg, Jack M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology
Rowan, James M., from Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Research Fellow, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
October 2, 1995
Taylor, Stephen F., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, August 7, 1995
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Gano-Phillips, Susan K., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy, one-year term
Green, Robert A., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term
Zannoni, Vincent G., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, one-year term
School of Music
Wilson, George B., Professor Emeritus of Music (Composition), four-month term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Art
Pijanowski, Hiroko S., Professor of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave, October 25, 1995 -January 9, 1996
West, Edward, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, and Associate Dean, extended sick
leave, October 6, 1995-January 9, 1996
School of Business Administration
Rogers, Priscilla S., Associate Professor of Business Communication, with tenure, extended
sick leave, September 25-December 31, 1995


202




November Meeting, 1995


College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Brown, Morton, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor
extended sick leave, September 27-November 27, 1995
Coffin, C. Tristram, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997
Gazda, Elaine K., Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology, with tenure, and Director and
Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
Humphreys, Sarah C., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, without
tenure, and Professor of Greek, without tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Milne, Michael G., Lecturer III in Spanish, leave without salary,
September 22-December 31, 1995
Stern, Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, extended sick leave, October 10, 1995-December 31, 1995
Widner, Jennifer A., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Medical School
Foster, Carol M., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, October 1, 1995-March 31, 1996
School of Music
Fogel, Jessica K., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, extended sick leave,
October 26-November 30, 1995
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Polakowski, Kenneth J., Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1998
College of Pharmacy
Sweet, Burgunda V., Clinical Assistant Professor II, extended sick leave,
August 6-September 6, 1995, and family medical leave, October 10-December 31, 1995
School of Public Health
Chatters, Linda M., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Flanagan, Constance A., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without
salary, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Raleigh, Mary E., Lecturer in English, extended sick leave, September 1, 1995 -February 9, 1996
CHANGE TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Oswald, Lynda J., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995, and on sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
(previously reported as on sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996)
College of Engineering
Samson, Perry J., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Engineering, and Professor of Environmental
and Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995 (previously reported as September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996)


203




November Meeting, 1995


CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Art
Carter, Carol A., Associate Professor of Art, cancellation of scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1995
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Wataha, John C., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned, September 24, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Isaacson, Joel, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1995
Schuman, Howard, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1995
Medical School
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, retired, November 30, 1995
Fekety, F. Robert, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Professor of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, retired, October 31, 1995
Husney, Adam C., Lecturer in Family Practice, resigned, September 30, 1995
MacDonald, Graeme A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, term complete, September 30, 1995
CANCELLATION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective September 1, 1995
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Farrell, Joseph, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, declined appointment
(previously approved in May Meeting, 1995)
School of Music
Workman, Maya M., Associate Professor of Dance, without tenure, declined appointment
(previously approved in November Meeting, 1994)
Workman, Reginald D., Professor of Music (Jazz), with tenure, declined appointment
(previously approved in November Meeting, 1994)
Retirement Memoirs.        Secretary Palmer submitted two retirement
memoirs.
F. Robert Fekety, Jr., M.D., professor of internal medicine in the
Medical School and professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health,
retired from active faculty status on October 31, 1995, after a most productive career as a teacher, clinician, and researcher.
A  native of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Dr. Fekety received his A.B.
degree from   Wesleyan University in 1951 and his M.D. degree from        Yale
University in 1955. Following an internship in medicine at Yale Medical
Center (1955-56), he served with the Epidemiology Intelligence Service of the
U.S. Public Health Service at the University of Pennsylvania and The Johns
Hopkins University from 1956-58. In 1958, he returned to Yale Medical
Center for a two-year residency, after which he served on the faculty of The
Johns Hopkins University Medical School as an instructor (1960-62) and
assistant professor (1962-67).


204




November Meeting, 1995


Dr. Fekety came to the University of Michigan in 1967 as associate
professor of internal medicine and chief of the division of infectious diseases
in the Department of Internal Medicine. He was promoted to professor of
internal medicine in 1971 and received the additional appointment of professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health in 1987, while maintaining
the position of chief of infectious diseases until his retirement. Dr. Fekety
established the University's infectious disease training program and has
trained more than 50 fellows who have gone on to positions of prominence
throughout the United States. He is best known for his pioneering work in
the identification and treatment of antibiotic-associated colitis caused by
clostridium difficile, as well as his previous work on the epidemiology of the
staphylococcus.
Dr. Fekety is a superb clinician whose expertise was widely sought. He
is also well regarded as a teacher because of his clarity of thought, ability to
synthesize complex concepts and present them in a clear, concise manner,
and his wonderful sense of humor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician for his dedicated
service by naming F. Robert Fekety, Jr., professor emeritus of internal
medicine and professor emeritus of epidemiology.
Frank Whitehouse, Jr., M.D., associate professor of microbiology,
retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1995, after a productive
career as a teacher and counselor in the preprofessional medical arena.
A native of the Ann Arbor-Ypsilanti area, Dr. Whitehouse received his
B.A. and M.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1949 and 1953,
respectively. He completed an internship at Blodgett Memorial Hospital in
Grand Rapids before accepting a position as an instructor at the University
of Michigan in 1954. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1961 and
associate professor in 1967.
During his tenure at the University, Dr. Whitehouse's interests and
contributions included research on immunoglobulin Fc fragments in burn
patients and the teaching of a variety of students, including medical, undergraduate, honors, and allied health students. He was instrumental in organizing the preprofessional counseling activities at Michigan and in forming the
National Association of Advisors for the Health Professions. In recent years,
Dr. Whitehouse's research focus has been in the area of test-taking
strategies.
The Regents now salute this dedicated educator and counselor for his
contributions by naming Frank Whitehouse, Jr., associate professor emeritus
of microbiology.
Memorials. One faculty death was reported to the Regents this month.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on October 6, 1995, of Andrea Foote, distinguished
research scientist, director of the Worker Health Program, Institute of Labor
and Industrial Relations, and adjunct professor in the School of Social Work.
Andrea Foote was born in Roosevelt, Utah, on March 23, 1941. She
received her B.A. degree in German from the University of Utah in 1963 and


205




November Meeting, 1995


two degrees in sociology from the University of Michigan-a master's in 1969
and a doctorate in 1973. She joined the University of Michigan Institute of
Labor and Industrial Relations as an assistant research scientist in 1973.
Along with her research partner and husband, the late John Erfurt, she
founded the Worker Health Program that same year. She was named distinguished research scientist in 1994.
A leading expert in the area of health promotion and wellness in the
work place, Dr. Foote was best known for designing and testing health care
delivery systems in industrial settings, with a special emphasis on chronic
disease control (hypertension, alcoholism, substance abuse, and mental and
emotional disorders). She and John Erfurt developed health screening
programs for many major corporations, including Ford Motor Company,
General Motors Corporation, Detroit Edison, and the United Auto Workers
union. She helped guide the U-M's efforts in confronting the problem of
student and employee substance abuse.
Dr. Foote published nearly 50 articles, chapters, and monographs on
topics ranging from controlling high blood pressure to cost-containment of
health screening in the work place. Two books published by her team of
researchers on employee assistance programs were among the first to
address the topic and fast became standard texts in the field. Her more than
20 years of research in the area of hypertension control culminated this fall
in the publication of the manual for the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services' work-site cardiovascular programs.
All of Dr. Foote's staff and colleagues will miss her calm leadership, her
often understated but always keen intelligence, and her unflagging dedication to perfection as she carried out her research. As we mourn the loss of
this distinguished researcher and scholar, our condolences go to her mother
Norma, her son, Brett Miner, her brother, G. Brant Foote, and her sisters,
Brandwyn Foote, Ariel Barfield, and Adrien Taylor, and their families.
Degrees. The Regents took the following actions with respect to degrees:
They approved final degree lists for the May and September, 1995, Law School
commencements and the August 1995 commencements of the various schools,
colleges, divisions, and branch campuses; they approved the December 1995
Doctoral Degree List; and they approved changes to previously approved
degree lists. Copies of all of the degree lists are on file in the Office of the
Secretary of the University.
Honorary Degrees. The president submitted recommendations for
honorary degrees to be awarded to Neil Shine, publisher of the Detroit Free
Press, and Hayden White, historian.
Consent Agenda Approved.       On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved the consent
agenda.


206




November Meeting, 1995


The University of Michigan 1995 Financial Report Supplemental
Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1995
Executive Vice President Womack submitted University of Michigan
1995 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30,
1995.
Six Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the six month report on Office of University
Audits activities for the period April 1, 1995, through September 30, 1995.
Sequoia Capital VII, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the
University has committed $5 million to Sequoia Capital VII, L.P., as provided
for in Bylaw Section 3.07(2a).
Estate of Walker L. Cisler
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved irrevocable assignment of the medals,
citations and honors of the late Walker L. Cisler to the Detroit Edison
Company for uses it deems appropriate. It was noted that the Detroit Edison
Company intends to display these items in its corporate headquarters.
Sales of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of
the following three parcels of gifted real estate: a 13-acre parcel in Republic
Township, Marquette County, Michigan, from the estate of Helen F. Weber;
five lots in Carroll Heights Subdivision, Commerce Township, Michigan, that
was a gift from Victor L. and Joyce Schneider; and a one-third acre parcel
located in Lakeside Park Subdivision, Lapeer County, Michigan, that was a
gift from John D. and Alice M. Klumpp.
Amendments to University Retirement Plan
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Varner, the
Regents unanimously approved amendments to the University retirement
plan effective December 1, 1995, as described in the Regents Communication. The amendments will reflect the direct rollover rules, the $150,000
compensation limit required, and the over $200,000 compensation limit
permitted by the Internal Revenue Code.
Stinchfield Woods Easement
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved authorizing the executive vice president and
chief financial officer to grant an easement to James and Kathleen Nicastri,
as described in the Regents Communication.


207




November Meeting, 1995


Detroit Observatory Restoration
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a project and budget for the restoration of
the Detroit Observatory, the appointment of Quinn Evans Architects as the
architect, and proceeding with the project as described in the Regents
Communication.
University Housing Major Renewal and Improvements
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following four projects: Couzens Hall renovation
project; Alice Lloyd Hall renovation project; Northwood II and III underground utilities replacement; and Northwood IV underground electrical
system replacement.
UMMC East Campus Primary Care Facility Project
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that contracts
have been awarded for the fourth package in this project, Interiors, as
described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals Projects
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved the following projects at University of Michigan Hospitals: Mott Hospital elevator lobby and interior refurbishment
project; North Ingalls Building power upgrade project; Turner Geriatrics
Building HVAC system replacement; and Taubman Health Center variable
speed drive pump replacement.
Capital Outlay Request, 1997-98, All Campuses
President Duderstadt observed that the state did not have a capital
outlay budget for the last fiscal year; it is hoped that there would be one for
the coming year. He submitted a list of new project requests and for the Ann
Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses.
President Duderstadt noted that the University has nearly completed
the rebuilding of the University's campuses. The requested funds for the
central campus are for projects that represent critical needs to complete the
renovation of that campus. Regent Horning moved approval of the 1997-98
Capital Outlay Request for all three campuses. Regent Newman seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Code of Student Conduct
Regent McFee moved approval of the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
Code of Student Conduct; Regent Power seconded the motion.
Vice President Hartford thanked the student work group who had
worked for seven months to produce the proposed code; she also thanked
MSA officers Flint Wainess, Sam Goodstein, and Ann Marie Ellison for their


208




November Meeting, 1995


review and suggestions, as well as staff in the Office of the General Counsel.
She pointed out two changes in the final draft that had been made at the
behest of Board members. She noted that although all of the University's
peer institutions, as well as other state institutions, already have conduct
codes, this code is a unique University of Michigan document.
President Duderstadt pointed out that the code currently in place is the
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities (SSRR), and that there is
general agreement that the code now under consideration is a better
document. Should the proposed code not be approved, the SSRR would
remain in place, as the University does not have the option of having no
code.
Regent Varner observed that while this code may not be perfect,
students had played a significant role in its development, and she supported
its approval.
Regent McFee expressed her support for this code, noting that the
Regents had mandated that there would be a code. She pointed out that part
of what students learn when they go to college is how to govern themselves.
She commended the student work group for this document, which represents
their best effort in developing a plan for self-government and self-discipline.
Regent Newman reviewed the specific concerns that had been raised by
the Michigan Student Assembly about the current draft of the code, and Vice
President Hartford responded to each of the concerns. Regarding the
overlap between Bylaw Section 2.01 and the Codes' emergency suspension
procedure, President Duderstadt and Vice President Hartford responded that
the procedure outlined in the code is in fact the way this situation is handled
currently under Bylaw Section 2.01.
Regarding MSA's opinion that hearings should be opened upon the
request of the accused, Vice President Hartford stated that the students in
the workgroup believed that each student involved in a dispute had an equal
right to request a closed hearing, and that this was especially true in cases
involving sexual assault or harassment.
Regarding the power of the resolution coordinator, Vice President
Hartford reviewed the systems in place that provide a check on the power of
that position. She also responded to students' concerns about ambiguity of
the definitions in the violations section of the document. Regent Newman
suggested that if the code is adopted, there ought to be a review and perhaps
clarification of definitions in the violations section.
Regent Newman emphasized that she does not believe this document
encompasses any speech codes, and that she had asked that a word be
removed to ensure that it would not be considered a speech code. Vice President Hartford responded that this is not a speech code, and that the student
work group sought to express that notion within the document.


209




November Meeting, 1995


Regent Deitch observed that he had always had reservations about a
code, as he believes that academic integrity should be the University's chief
interest in regulating academic life. He also believes that while the University has a moral duty to address issues of alcoholism and sexual harassment,
beyond that, his personal belief is that an honor code is all that is necessary,
with the caveat that students should obey the law. However, he would be
voting for the code for four reasons: 1) it was student generated in response
to a Regental mandate; 2) this code "treads lightly" because of its emphasis
on mediation; 3) as Dean Lehman had observed, communities can set their
own codes of conduct for their own reasons, even when that creates redundancies; and 4) he respects Vice President Hartford and her work with
students, as well as his colleagues.
Regent Baker reviewed the history of codes at the University and
elsewhere, noting that a speech code had been put in place in the 1980s that
was eventually found to be unconstitutional by a U.S. District Court, and
that other codes have also been found to be unconstitutional. Throughout
the process of instituting codes, there has been tremendous opposition from
students and from some Regents, including him. He believes that if there is
to be any code, it should be a minimalist code. Regent Baker believes that
the arguments presented by the ACLU are convincing, that existing rules
and regulations and that the areas covered in the Code of Student Conduct
govern a very narrow area of student life. He noted that many people on
campus object to the code, and he would liked to have heard from some of
them during this process.
Regent Baker offered an amendment to the motion on the floor that the
code would end in three years unless reviewed and re-approved by the
Regents. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
At Regent Horning's request, President Duderstadt reported that the
University had been cited by the North Central accreditation agency for its
lack of a student disciplinary policy. He stated that the amendment to have
the code disappear at a time certain would be in violation of the law and
would jeopardize the University's accreditation. Regent Varner pointed out
that the code could always be amended if there were problems.
Regent Newman said that the portions required by state and federal law
could remain in place, but that a sunset provision forces the issue to be
reconsidered. President Duderstadt reiterated that creating a sunset provision in which the default would be the elimination of a student disciplinary
policy would be an unwise decision.
Regent Deitch pointed out that to his credit, Regent Baker had voted
against the speech code that had subsequently been found to be unconstitutional. He suggested that Regent Baker's motion be amended to call for a
report and review in three years, with the code remaining in effect. This
would require a reconsideration of the policy after a reasonable period of
time. Regent Baker accepted that amendment.


210




November Meeting, 1995


Regent McFee requested that records be kept as to the type of activities
being governed by this code, including the venues where violations and
complaints arise (e.g., residence halls, classrooms, etc.).
Regent Baker stated that he is concerned that this code of conduct
would control speech.
The vote was then taken on Regent Baker's amendment to the original
motion, as amended, that would require a review and discussion of the code
by the Board of Regents after three years. The motion was approved
unanimously.
Regent Power commented that having been a member of the Board at
the time of Regent Baker's dissent from the original speech code, he believes
this current code has remedied many of the defects of the earlier documents.
He delineated what to him are the four most useful features of this code: 1)
it is written down; 2) it was developed in a consultative way, rather than
being imposed by another body, and reflects this generation of students and
their values; 3) it stresses the norms of an academic community, into which
students enter voluntarily; and 4) it is not punitive, but rather stresses
values and education via the device of mediation. It is a great improvement
over both the earlier version and the former statement that had later been
found to be unconstitutional.
Regent Baker stated that he would be willing to accept a code that could
be put on one page in twelve-point type.
The vote was then taken on the original motion to approve the Code of
Student Conduct for the Ann Arbor campus, and it was approved on a vote of
seven to one, with Regent Baker opposed.
The text of the Code of Student Conduct for the Ann Arbor campus can
be found in the Appendix, page 213.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff
membership.
Report on Research Expenditures for FY 1995
Vice President Neal suggested that the annual research report be given
in two parts. The metrics section would be given now; the other part, which
would describe actual research projects and their impact on students and
technology transfer activities, would be given in February. Regent McFee
expressed support for this approach.
Vice President Neal then proceeded with a report on research expenditures for FY 1995. Total FY1995 expenditures amounted $409.2 million, a
6.0 percent increase over FY1994. Federal research expenditures increased


211




November Meeting, 1995


by 4.0 percent and the number of awards increased by 3.8 percent; the dollar
value of federal awards, $401.9 million, represented a 10.3 percent increase
over FY1994.
Vice President Neal displayed charts and graphs showing research
expenditures by sponsor groups and federally sponsored research expenditures by agency. He reviewed projections of funding levels of the various
federal agencies through 2002, noting that several agencies are facing significant decreases in funding and some are targeted for possible elimination.
Vice President Neal described some of the steps being taken both within the
University of Michigan and in cooperation with sister institutions to prepare
for the future funding situation.
Vice President Neal informed the Regents about some of the changes in
the University's intellectual properties policy that he is preparing to propose
to the Board at an upcoming meeting, perhaps in February 1996.
Regent McFee noted the importance of the faculty's continuing to
submit award proposals of high caliber and of benefit to society so that they
continue to have a high potential of being granted.
President Duderstadt reported that Vice President Hartford had
recently been elected chair of the National Council of Vice Presidents of
Student Affairs.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:45
a.m. The next meeting will be held on December 14 and 15, 1995. Regents'
expenses reported for the month of October 1995 totaled $280.22.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


212




November Meeting, 1995


APPENDIX
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-ANN ARBOR
CODE OF STUDENT CONDUCT
INTRODUCTION
The University of Michigan-Ann Arbor ("the University") is dedicated to maintaining
a scholarly community. As its central purpose, this community promotes intellectual inquiry
through vigorous discourse. Essential values which under gird this purpose include civility,
dignity, diversity, education, equality, freedom, honesty, and safety.
When students choose to accept admission to the University, they accept the rights and
responsibilities of membership in the University's academic and social community. As
members of the University community, students are expected to uphold its values by
maintaining a high standard of conduct. Because the University establishes high standards
for membership, its standards of conduct, while falling within the limits of the law, may
exceed federal, state, or local requirements.
Within the University, entities (such as schools and colleges campus, professional, and
student organizations) have developed policies that outline standards of conduct governing
their constituents and that sometimes provide procedures for sanctioning violations of those
standards. This Code of Student Conduct ("the Code") does not replace those standards; nor
does it constrain the procedures or sanctions provided by those policies. This Code describes
possible behaviors which are inconsistent with the essential values of the University community; it outlines procedures to respond to such behaviors; and it suggests possible sanctions
which are intended to educate and to safeguard members of the University community.
STUDENT RIGHTS
Students at the University have the same rights and protections under the Constitutions of the United States and the state of Michigan as other citizens. These rights include
freedom of expression, press, religion, and assembly. The University has a long tradition of
student activism and values freedom of expression, which includes voicing unpopular views
and dissent. As members of the University community, students have the right to express
their own views, but must also take responsibility for according the same right to others.
Students have the right to be treated fairly and with dignity regardless of age, color,
creed, disability, marital status, national origin or ancestry, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or veteran status. The University has a long-standing tradition of commitment to
pluralistic education. Accordingly, the University, through this Code, will not discriminate
on the basis of group status.
Students have the right to be protected from capricious decision-making by the University and to have access to University policies which affect them. The University has an
enduring commitment to provide students with a balanced and fair system of dispute resolution. Accordingly, this Code will not deprive students of the appropriate due process protections to which they are entitled. This Code is one of the University's administrative procedures and should not be equated with procedures used in civil or criminal court.
VIOLATIONS
Behaviors which contradict the essential values of the University community are:
A. Physically harming another person including acts such as killing, assaulting, or battering
B. Sexually assaulting or sexually harassing another person


213




November Meeting, 1995 - Appendix


C. Hazing, stalking, or harassing another person
D. Possessing, using, or storing firearms, explosives, or weapons on
University-controlled property or at University events or programs (unless
approved by the Department of Public Safety; such approval will be given only in
extraordinary circumstances)
E. Tampering with fire or other safety equipment or setting unauthorized
fires
F. Illegally possessing, using, distributing, manufacturing, or selling
alcohol or other drugs
G. Intentionally and falsely reporting bombs, fires, or other emergencies
to a University official
H. Stealing, vandalizing, damaging, destroying, or defacing University
property or the property of others
I.  Obstructing or disrupting classes, research projects, or other activities
or programs of the University; or obstructing access to University facilities,
property, or programs (except for behavior that is protected by the University's
policy on Freedom of Speech and Artistic Expression)
J.  Making, possessing, or using any falsified University document or
record; altering any University document or record, including identification cards
and meal cards
K. Failing to leave University-controlled premises when told to do so by a
police or security officer with reasonable cause
L. Violating state or federal law if such action has serious impact on the
University community
M. Misusing, failing to comply with, or jeopardizing Code procedures,
sanctions, or mediated agreements, or interfering with participants involved in
the resolution process
N. Violating University computer policies
SCOPE OF THE VIOLATIONS
Behavior which occurs in the city of Ann Arbor, on University-controlled roperty, or
at University sponsored events/programs may violate the Code. Behavior which occurs
outside the city of Ann Arbor or outside University-controlled property may violate the Code
only if the behavior poses an obvious and serious threat or harm to any member(s) of the
University community.
The Code of Student Conduct is intended to incorporate other specific University
policies by reference. These policies are:  the University Housing's Community Living at
Michigan Handbook, the Information Technology Division's Condition of Use Statement,
and the Computer Aided Engineering Network's Conditions of Use Policy. The Code will be
used to address violations of these policies only if the violation warrants a process or a
sanction beyond what is available in these policies. In such cases, policy adjudicators may
take intermediate action regarding a complaint as defined by their individual policy;
however, final resolution will occur under the procedures outlined in this Code.
PROCEDURES
The University will use the following procedures to respond to behavior which goes
against the essential values of the University community. The University considers the
procedures for resolving disputes a part of its educational mission and is committed to a
process which provides both peer review and mediation. Persons who have questions about
the Code should contact the resolution coordinator who provides support to all participants.


214




November Meeting, 1995 - Appendix


Resolution and appeal processes are administrative functions and are not subject to the same
rules of civil or criminal proceedings. Because some violations of these standards are also
violations of law, students may be accountable to both the legal system and the University.
Stage 1: Initiating the Resolution Process. Any student, faculty member, or staff
member may submit a complaint alleging a violation of the Code. A student, faculty
member, or staff member may also submit a complaint based upon information reported to
that person. All complaints must be submitted to the resolution coordinator ( RC"), in
writing, within six months after the incident(s) alleged in the complaint. The RC may waive
the six-month limitation when a late submission is reasonable. If the RC determines, based
on an investigation, that the alleged behavior may be a violation of the Code, the RC will
notify the accused student and schedule a meeting as described below.
Stage 2: The Resolution Process. The RC will meet with the accused student to
explain the complaint and the resolution process. The student will have the opportunity to
ask questions and make a statement. The student may be accompanied by an advisor. In all
incidents, except those involving violence, if both parties agree to resolve the complaint
through mediation, the RC will make arrangements for the mediation to occur. The nature
of some complaints, especially those involving violence, may make mediation an unrealistic
option. When violence is involved, the RC must concur in the decision to use mediation.
Parties will be offered the choice of using a University or a non-University mediator.
Mediation is a voluntary process which may or may not result in a mediated agreement.
When a mediated agreement is reached, the case is resolved and parties are encouraged to
use the RC as a resource for future questions. Mediated agreements may not be appealed.
If the parties involved in the dispute do not choose mediation, if the mediator reports a
failed mediation, or if the nature of the complaint makes mediation unrealistic, the dispute
will be resolved through arbitration. The accused student may choose to have a resolution
officer or a student resolution panel arbitrate the dispute. In cases which involve more than
one accused student the RC will choose the form of arbitration if the students cannot agree.
Each party involved in arbitration has the right to be assisted but not represented by an
advisor of her or his choice. At an arbitration, the RC will be in charge of preparing and
submitting information gathered during the investigation. Both parties may have access to
this information prior to the arbitration. To ensure the privacy of the parties and to
maximize the educational potential of the process, both parties must agree to the admission
of any other people (except witnesses or advisors) to the arbitration.
All arbitrated resolutions will result in a recommendation(s) to the dean of students,
who may accept or modify the recommendation(s). The dean may not modify a sanction to
include suspension or expulsion. However, when expulsion is recommended, the dean may
instead suspend the student.
Stage 3: Appealing the Resolution Process. An appeals process is an essential
safeguard for an imperfect human process that attempts very hard to be fair. The appeal
process is available to each party. Appeals may be filed for the following reasons: proper
procedures were not followed, the evidence clearly does not support the finding(s), sanctions
are insufficient or excessive relative to the violation, or there is new evidence not reasonably
available at the time of the arbitration. All appeals must be submitted in writing to the RC
within 10 academic calendar days of the arbitration outcome. The vice president for student
affairs ("the VPSA") may waive the 10 day limitation when a late submission is reasonable.
The appeal will be reviewed by an Appeals Board composed of one student appointed b the
Michigan Student Assembly, one faculty member appointed by the Faculty Senate, an one
administrator appointed by the president. MSA, the Faculty Senate, and the president will
each appoint one alternate member to the Appeals Board. The Appeals Board will recommend one of the following actions to the VPSA: confirming the decision made through the
arbitration process, altering the sanction(s), or recommending a re-arbitration. The VPSA
ma accept or modify the recommendation(s). The VPSA may not modify a sanction to
include suspension or expulsion. However, when expulsion is recommended, the VPSA may
instead suspend the student.
SANCTIONS
In keeping with this policy's stated essential values, sanctions are designed to promote
the University's educational mission. Sanctions may also serve to promote safety or to deter
students from behavior which harms, harasses, or threatens people or property. Some
behavior is so harmful to the University community or so deleterious to the educational


215




November Meeting, 1995 - Appendix


process that it may require more serious sanctions: removal from housing, removal from
specific courses or activities, suspension from the University, or expulsion. More than one
sanction may be recommended. Possible sanctions are:
A. Fo    al ep      nd.   frmal Reprimand  A formal notice that the Code has been violated
and that future violations will be dealt with more severely.
B. Disciplinary Probation. A designated period of time during which
the student is not in good standing with the University. The terms of probation
may involve restrictions of student privileges and/or set specific behavioral
expectations.
C. Restitution. Compensation for loss, damage, or injury to the appropriate party in the form of service, money, or material replacement.
D. Restriction from Employment at the University     Prohibition or
limitation on University employment.
E. Class/Workshop Attendance. Enrollment and completion of a class
or workshop that could help the student understand why her or his behavior was
inappropriate.
F. Educational Project. Completion of a project specifically designed to
help the student understand why her or his behavior was inappropriate.
G. Service. Performance of one or more tasks designed to benefit the
community and help the student understand why her or his behavior was
inappropriate.
H. University Housing Transfer or Removal. Placement in another
room or housing unit or removal from University housing.
I.  Removal from    Specific Courses or Activities. Suspension or
transfer from courses or activities at the University for a specified period of time.
J.  No Contact.    Restriction from entering specific University areas
and/or all forms of contact with certain person(s).
K. Suspension. Separation from the University for a specified period of
time or until certain conditions are met.
L. Expulsion. Permanent separation from the University.
RELATED PROCEDURES
A. Emergency Suspension. If a student's actions pose an immediate
danger to any member of the University community, the VPSA or a designee may
immediately suspend the student pending a meeting. Except in extraordinary
circumstances that meeting shall be scheduled within two academic calendar
days. At this meeting, the student will be given the opportunity to make a statement and present evidence. If the emergency suspension is continued, the
student will be offered an arbitration option within ten academic calendar days.
B. Procedural and Interpretive Questions. All procedural and interpretive questions concerning the Code will be resolved by the VPSA or designee.
At any time, the VPSA or the RC may consult the Office of the General Counsel
about a case or procedures.
C. Selection of Mediators. Student Panelists, and Resolution
Officers. University mediators will be selected by the VPSA. A list of trained
non-University mediation services will be maintained by the Office of the Vice
President for Student Affairs. The VPSA will try to identify non-University
mediators who will serve parties at no charge or on a sliding fee scale. A neutral


216




November Meeting, 1995 - Appendix


mediator will be assigned to each mediation. Each winter term 60 students will
be appointed to serve as panelists for the following academic year. The student
government of each school and college, in consultation with its dean or designee,
will appoint a number of students proportionate to its college's share of the total
University enrollment. Graduate students will be appointed through their home
school or college. It is expected that each student government will appoint a
diverse pool of students to serve as panelists. Resolution officers are recommended by the Faculty Senate and/or the VPSA. Each student resolution panel
will consist of five voting student panelists and a nonvoting resolution officer who
will oversee the proceedings.
D. Records of Resolution Actions. Records will be maintained by the
RC with regard to any and all actions taken under the Code. Accordingly, records
will be maintained by the RC of complaints, mediations, arbitrations, findings,
and sanctions. Confidentiality of records will be maintained to the extent permitted by law and the University of Michigan Student Rights and Student Records
Policy. If a student is suspended or expelled, a notation will be made on the
student's academic record. The notation of suspension will be removed at the
time the student is readmitted to the University.
E. Student Access to Records. Records and documents that will be
considered during an arbitration will be made available in advance to all parties
but may be redacted to protect the privacy rights of individuals not directly
involved in the resolution process.
F. Reports of Actions. Statistical reports of actions taken through the
Code will be published following each academic term. These data will cover the
number of complaints and the types of violations, resolutions, and sanctions.
Periodic, regular review of Code arbitrations will be made available, in confidence, to the Student Rights Commission chair of MSA. Personally identifiable
information will be removed from all records prior to any review.
G. Concurrent Legal and Code Proceedings. If an accused student is
undergoing civil or criminal action for the same behavior which forms the basis of
a complaint under this Code, the accused student may choose to delay a Code
resolution until the external proceedings come to fruition. By choosing to delay
the Code process, the accused student accepts suspension from the University and
may not enter University property without authorization from the RC.
H. Advisor Corps. MSA, with approval of the General Counsel, has the
option to develop a student peer advisor corps. These advisors will be available to
any student party involved in arbitration. All potential peer advisors in the
Advisor Corps must successfully complete training provided by the office of the
RC.
I.  Amending the Code of Student Conduct. This Code of Student
Conduct may only be amended by a majority vote of the Regents of the University
of Michigan. MSA, the Senate Assembly, or the University administration may
propose amendments to the Code.


217




SPECIAL MEETINGS, DECEMBER 1995


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
December 1, 1995
A special meeting of the Board of Regents commenced via telephone
conference call at 3:30 p.m. Present were Regents Baker, Deitch, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Regent Horning was absent. Also
present were Executive Vice President Womack, Provost Machen, Vice President Harrison, Secretary Palmer, and General Counsel Cole.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Varner offered the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by 1984
PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on December 1, 1995, for the purpose of considering material exempt from discussion
or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt
material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Horning seconded the motion and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
December 4, 1995
A special meeting of the Board of Regents convened at 12:00 noon in the
Regents' Room. Present were Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Also present were Executive Vice
President Womack, Provost Machen, Vice Presidents Harrison and Hartford,
and General Counsel Cole.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Varner offered the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by 1984
PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on December 1, 1995, for the purpose of considering material exempt from discussion
or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt
material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Horning seconded the motion and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


218




DECEMBER MEETING, 1995


The University ofMichigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 14, 1995
The Regents met at 11:50 a.m. in the Founder's Room of the Alumni
Association. Present were Regents Baker, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer and Vice President Harrison
were also present.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Varner made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, Imove that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session at 12:00 noon on December 14, 1995, to consider
material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material
consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
I also move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session at 7:30 a.m.
on December 15, 1995, for the same purpose.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Friday, December 15, 1995
The meeting reconvened in public session at 9:20 a.m. in the Regents'
Room.   Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch,
Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner.        Secretary
Palmer, Provost Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents
Harrison, Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick
were also present.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Lee Beckett, citizen, about intercollegiate athletics.
Provost's Report
Marshall Scholarship. Provost Machen called on Associate Provost
Susan Lipschutz, who announced that Mr. Benjamin Novick, a senior at the
University of Michigan, had been awarded a Marshall Scholarship. She gave


219




December Meeting, 1995


some background on the scholarship and on Mr. Novick and introduced Mr.
Novick to those in attendance. There followed a round of applause.
Retirement of Dean Ara Paul. Provost Machen announced that Ara
Paul, dean of the College of Pharmacy, would be stepping down from the
deanship on December 31, 1995, and returning to faculty status. Because of
his long and distinguished career as dean, he requested that the Board
consider naming Dean Paul to dean emeritus status.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously adopted the following retirement memoir for Dean
Paul and also recognized him with a round of applause.
Ara G. Paul, dean of the College of Pharmacy and professor of pharmacognosy, will retire from his deanship position on December 31, 1995, after a
remarkable, twenty-year tenure.
Dean Paul received his B.S. degree from Idaho State University in 1950
and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Connecticut in 1953
and 1956, respectively. Prior to joining the University of Michigan faculty,
Dean Paul was a consultant in plant physiology at the Argonne National
Laboratory and an assistant professor of pharmacognosy at Butler University. He was appointed assistant professor of pharmacognosy at the University of Michigan in 1957 and was promoted to associate professor in 1963 and
professor in 1969. He also held visiting faculty appointments at the University of California at Berkeley and Tokyo University.
Under Dean Paul's leadership, the College of Pharmacy rose to its
present status as a premier center of pharmaceutical education, practice, and
research. One of his earliest efforts was the orchestration of a move to establishment of the doctor of pharmacy degree as the entry-level degree, which
other colleges of pharmacy have since adopted. He worked tirelessly to help
build close working relationships with the Department of Pharmacy Services
at the UM Hospitals, thus improving the college's influence in the delivery of
clinical services and clinical research. The stage has now been set for the
college and the UM Hospitals to develop new models of pharmacy practice
for the future.
Dean Paul's vision also included an increase in the quality and size of
the faculty.  During his tenure, numerous faculty members have been
selected for the most prestigious awards for pharmaceutical research, and the
welcoming environment and the college's growing prestige have led to a
steady increase in the number and quality of student applicants. An aggressive fund-raiser, Dean Paul oversaw a rise in the college's endowment from
$500,000 to a market value of more than $16.3 million, as well as the
construction of a new research wing built with $4.5 million in private
support. There can be no doubt that Ara Paul has left an indelible mark on
the College of Pharmacy in all of the important arenas.
The Regents now salute Ara G. Paul for his many contributions to the
College of Pharmacy and the University by naming him dean emeritus.


220




December Meeting, 1995


Chief Financial Officer's Report
Executive Vice President Womack reported that Mr. William Krumm,
associate vice president for business operations, would be leaving the University to become vice president, controller, and chief financial officer of Texas
A & M    University. He noted that Mr. Krumm         has been a valuable associate
and has "made enormous contributions to the University in a wide variety of
ways." Mr. Krumm received a round of applause and commented about the
privilege it had been for him and his wife Martha to have served the University for the past thirty years.
Consent Agenda
Minutes.     Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the November
1995 meeting for approval.
Reports.        Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports on
investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Vice President Neal submitted reports on projects established, research
and other activities and summaries of a selection of current research and
sponsored projects for the month of November 1995. He noted that the
University of Michigan has retained its number one ranking in research
expenditures among public universities in 1995 and number one overall
when the Applied Physics Laboratory at the Johns Hopkins University is
removed from consideration.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of
voluntary support for November 1995.            He noted that the Campaign for
Michigan has achieved 93 percent of its overall goal with 76 percent of the
time having elapsed.
AAUW Educational Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the School of Education.....................................2,870
Alan T. Ackerman, Troy
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................25,000
Aeroquip, Maumee, Ohio
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration..................... 32,500
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 7,500
Robert G. Aldrich, Ann Arbor
200 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry, and for the
University  M usical Society....................................................... 11,963
Allied Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 26,460
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science and the Arts and the Biophysics Research Division...........................66,620
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 19,325
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School................................  12,500
American Fund for Dental Health, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry....................................... 6,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School............................................... 10,973


221




December Meeting, 1995


American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing, and in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................           133,113
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 10,000
Herbert S. Amster, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Medicine, Music, and Social Work; and for the
University Musical Society...................................................... 6,910
Andrews and McMeel Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies....................................................... 5,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 10000
ARCO Transportation Company, Long Beach, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science and
the   A rts.......................................................................   71,167
AT&T, Orlando, Florida
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
E ngineering................................................................... 70,000
Austenal, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for prosthodontics support in the School of Dentistry................................. 5,000
Cheryl M. Baumgartner, Moraga, California
for the Robert A Baumgartner Football Scholarship in the Department of
A thletics......................................................................  40,000
Charles M. Bell, St. Louis, Missouri
for support in the Medical School................................................. 5,000
Ralph E. Bennett, Mount Clemens
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical
School..............................................................10,803
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack and Barbara Berman Merit Scholarship in the Medical
School........................................................................   9,000
Dickson G. Brown, Larchmont, New York
for support in the Law School, and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts...................................................................  26,000
Wilbert H. Budd, Elkhart, Indiana
1,550 shares of CTS Corporation common stock
for the Budd Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 52,022
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School................................................. 8,000
Ceres Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 5,000
Mrs. Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 25,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration................................................................. 20,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for instructional support, mechanical engineering support, and the Chrysler
Corporation Scholarship and Fellowship in the College of Engineering................. 15,000
Clorox Company Foundation, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................... 8,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Southeastern Michigan Neighborhood and Family Initiative Fund in
the School of Social Work............................................................12,000
Jean Decker Connell, Wheaton, Illinois
200 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock
for the Jean and Phelps Connell Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 9,063
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts...........................................................  10,000


222




December Meeting, 1995


David S. Cooper Trust
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 11,000
Howard Cooper, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Sue W. Cooper Research Fund in the Medical School....................... 103,056
Eleanor W. Cottrell Estate
for the Alan P. Cottrell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................... 25,000
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for the Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of
D entistry....................................................................... 5,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint..................................... 10,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................. 10,900
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, for the
Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University of MichiganDearborn and for employee matching gifts........................................20,190
Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund, Detroit
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit Football Scholarship
in the Department of Athletics............................................... 12,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Fellowship in the Law School................. 5,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women
and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the
Clements Library, the Museum of Art, the Michigan League, and the
University  M usical Society....................................................... 22,700
Robert J. Donia, Fort Worth, Texas
for the Center for Russian and East European Studies Endowment in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 5,000
Doran Foundation, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................ 10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Chemical Sciences Facility and the Dow Chemical Company-Britton
Fellowship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 260,000
Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................. 5,000
Ducker Research Company, Inc., Bloomfield
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Ralph H. Dwan, Jr., Washington, DC
8,520 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company common stock
and a cash gift for the Ralph H. Dwan, Jr., Dean's Discretionary Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for support of the Law School....... 502,518
Albert D. Early, Sarasota, Florida
1,000 shares of Northeast Utilities common stock and a cash gift
for the Albert D. and Virginia B. Early Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit
of the  Law   School............................................................  124,500
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Thomas and Elaine Evans Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Schools of Art and Music, for the University Hospitals, the
University Musical Society, the Museum of Art and for WUOM/WVGR................. 5,000
Paul P. Fan, Irvine, California
for biological chemistry support in the Medical School................................ 5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources
and Environment, the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and the Center for
Engineering Education and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 1,099,994
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Center for the Education of Women.............................. 25,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for political science support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 5,000
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in the School of Public Health.......................................... 8,000


223




December Meeting, 1995


Gemini, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School of Business
Administration............................................................ 50,000
General Electric Company Lighting Business Group, East Cleveland, Ohio;
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering................ 10,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the Faculty for the Future Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies.............................................  110,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School......... 50,000
James B. Griffin, Bethesda, Maryland
for the James B. Griffin Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................30,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering Program in
the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts......................... 13,105
Clayton Hale Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration........................... 75,848
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the Lois and William Halliday Scholarship in the Law School......................10,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research  in  the Medical School............................................... 17,500
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library...... 32,500
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Princeton, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts.................................................... 9,650
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Foundation Visiting Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts...........................................................  11,000
Kalamazoo Foundation Civic Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center..............................................  5,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies.............................................................  99,666
Knox Family Foundation, Johnstown, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 5,000
David T. Krom, Northville
for the Jason Krom  Memorial Scholarship.........................................  5,000
L. Bates Lea, Naples, Florida
1,500 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., and
1,200 shares of Viking Office Products common stock
for the L. Bates Lea Visiting Professorship in the Law School...................... 109,163
Teh-Hsun Lee, Fort Pierce, Florida
1,200 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for the Teh-Hsun and Mang Shuen Lee Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit of
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................... 100,000
Julie H. Levy, Bloomfield Hills
for the Julie Levy Bridge Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
th e   A rts.........................................................................   7,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Mental Health Research Institute in the Medical School........................5,000
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science  and  the Arts.......................................                 9,000
Lupus Foundations of America, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 7,500
Lupus Society of the Arthritis Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the McCune Gift Fund in the Medical School..................................... 5,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education..................................     55,000
K. S. Mahindru, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School................................. 5,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 7,500


224




December Meeting, 1995


Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Programin the College of Literature, Science and the Arts..... 36,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 20,312
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for the 40th Anniversary and Health Sciences Archives Fund in the Medical School....... 5,000
Carole Simpson Marshall, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship........................................... 10,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for support of the Law School....................................................,500
Pauline L. McMullen Trust
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women............ 5,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for WFUM/TV  and WUOM/WVGR.................................................5,276
Meister Family Trust, North Hampton, New Hampshire
for the Susan B. Meister Endowed Fund in the School of Nursing..................... 20,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School.......................... 100,000
Mexican Town Restaurant, Inc., Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 40,168
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, Ann Arbor
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School.................. 5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.................... 28,750
Joe D. Morris, Ann Arbor
85 shares of Johnson Controls common stock
for golf course restoration and scholarship support in the Department of Athletics....... 5,265
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the M. F. A. Director's Discretionary Fund in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, for support in the School of Music; and for the University Musical
S ociety.........................................................................  7,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for electrical and computer engineering support in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
National Endowment for the Arts, Washington, DC
for the University Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Network Express, Inc., Ann Arbor
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration....................10,039
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School........................... 25,000
Leonard M. Newman, Grand Rapids
for the Leonard and Eileen Newman Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts...................................................................  5,000
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry........................ 25,000
New York Council on Adoptable Children, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the School of Social W ork.......................................... 12,500
Office-Related CTD Research Committee, Manchester Center, Vermont
for the Muscle Research Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 10,000
Thomas M. O'Leary, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School............................................  5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for. mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 25,000
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 6,250
Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
1,000 shares of Michigan National Corporation common stock
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the Medical
School and for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.............. 110,000
Jorge M. Perez, Miami, Florida
for the Jorge M. Perez Urban Planning Fellowship in the College of Architecture
and  U rban  Planning............................................................ 10,000
Polish National Alliance, Chicago, Illinois
for instructional support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 7,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering................... 5,000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Professorship in the School of Business Administration....... 30,000


225




December Meeting, 1995


Robert B. and Jacqueline K. Reese Trust
for the Robert B. and Jacqueline K. Reese Medical Student Loan Fund in the
M edical School.................................................................44,229
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for the building fund in the School of Social Work.................................... 5,000
Peter J. Rosewig, Hobe Sound, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and other support in the Department of
A thletics......................................................................  55,000
Jack Roth, Malibu California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.........................10,000
Joseph B. Rounds Estate
for the Joseph B. Rounds Fund for Excellence in Librarianship, School of
Information and Library Studies......................................       5,000
RTB Corporation, East Lansing
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................12,000
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
240 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan.....................................23,730
Robert F. Ruthruff Trust
for the Dr. Robert F. and Alice Ruthruff Memorial Fund in Chemistry, College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts...............................................  270,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts......................................................................  39,000
Seariver Maritime, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Center for Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering......... 20,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 23,915
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art............................10,000
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 12,000
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation Photo Archive Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation Book
Fund in the University Library.................................................. 11,685
Marjorie M. St. Onge, Milford
for support in the Schools of Art and Business Administration, and in the College
of  E ngineering.................................................................. 5,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Studies Program Director's Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.................................................  22,800
Joshua J. and Eunice Stone Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Communicative Disorders Clinic........................................... 20,000
Ruth L. Striffler, Ann Arbor
for the Dave Striffler Fund in the School of Public Health............................ 5,000
Swedish Council on Technology Assessment in Health Care, Stockholm, Sweden
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 15,105
Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for research  in  the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 15,000
Telecom Analysis Systems, Inc., Eatontown, New Jersey
for the Fred and Louise Tarver Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 5,000
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
employee matching gifts.........................................................11,000
Robert E. Terkhorn, Greenwich, Connecticut
100 shares of Citicorp common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 6,781
Jonathan Uhr, Dallas, Texas
for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan............................. 10,000
University of Michigan Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the R. G. Forman Alumni Fund for Undergraduate Education and for the
Martin  Luther King  Scholarship.................................................. 12,500
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship.........................6,000


226




December Meeting, 1995


Harold and Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the MAC Program Endowment in the School of Education.............. 25,000
Vical, San Diego, California
for the Vical Gift Fund in the Medical School.....................................  100,000
Bob Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science  and  the  A rts........................................................... 12,000
Harvey A. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Harvey A. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering...................5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy, for biostatistics
support in the School of Public Health, for the Habitat for Humanity Programin
the School of Business Administration; and for the Ann Arbor Flower Show,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.,...................................49,936
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Fellowships in the Medical School and the
College of Pharmacy, for the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorships in the
Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the
building fund in the College of Pharmacy and for student support in the Horace H.
Rackham  School of Graduate Studies............................................  789,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent...............................................................  5,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature,
Science  and  the  A rts............................................................. 5,000
Harley J. Westfall, Adrian
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics................................ 7,500
Ruthmary S. Westfall Trust, Adrian
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 7,500
Wetsman Foundation, Birmingham
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of Business
A dm inistration..................................................................  5,000
Elizabeth F. Wood Estate
for the Walter F. Wood Endowed Scholarship in the School of Dentistry............... 50,000
Worthington Industries, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering........................................... 8,500
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law  School.................................... 50,000
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for the Special Programs
Fund  in  the  School of M usic...................................................... 5,100
George D. Zuidema, Ann Arbor
for the MomentUM: Advancing Medicine at Michigan Fund in the Medical School....... 5,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computers, Southfield
an Apple 8150 workgroup server for the College of Engineering
Marvin Bryant, Cascade, Idaho
a Fordson tractor for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Caremark, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
two boxes of books for the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
a 1993 Eagle Vision with a Zexel Route Guidance System for the Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering
Christopher Cundy, London, England
two needlepoint chairs and a needlepoint loveseat for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn
David A. Domzal, Franklin
an Interlake sailboat with sails and a trailer for Camp Michigania
Eugene M. Grant, New York, New York
eight hand-tinted lithographs by David Roberts for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Hollywood Creative Directory, Santa Monica, California
216 copies of the Hollywood Creative Directory for the Department of Film/Video Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
a pentium 90 workstation for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science


227




December Meeting, 1995


International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
IBM equipment for the Information Technology Division
Jack H. Shuler, Naples, Florida
a bronze head sculpture, untitled, by John Pappas for the Museum of Art
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
41 binders illustrating Japanese architecture and Cambodian sculpture for the Department of
History of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Laura M. Ahearn, Chester, Maryland     Alex Manoogian, Grosse Pointe Farms
Dora M. Arecheja, Ann Arbor           Richard L. Merrill, West Bloomfield
Lars Bjorn, Ann Arbor                  Hillary A. Murt, Ann Arbor
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor               A. Russell Nelson, Ann Arbor
Marlene K. Hurley, Dearborn            Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
International Business Machines, Research  Michael A. Palavin, Flint
Triangle Park, North Carolina     Max Roberts, Onstead
Paul W. Koch, Dearborn                 Nancy Schaff, Jackson
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor               Mike Skinner, St. Clair Shores
Conrad P. Kottak, Ann Arbor            Ann Stoler, Ann Arbor
Kathryn G. Lyon, Ann Arbor             TOYS 'R' US, Canton
Carl K. Mahakian, Palm Springs, California  Sharon A. Wysocki, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. President Duderstadt pointed out the request for
the reappointment of Vice President Hartford for a second five-year term.
He commented that the unusual respect, love, appreciation, and compassion
for students that she has brought to the campus has had an extraordinary
impact on the institution. He expressed his personal appreciation for her
efforts, noting that her recent election as chair-elect of the Student Affairs
Council of the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant
Colleges (NASULGC) is a measure of the esteem with which she is regarded
among her peers.
Regents McFee and Power commented on the positive relationships with
students that Vice President Hartford has developed as well as her other
remarkable achievements since she has been at the University.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1996
Kapteyn, Henry C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Murnane, Margaret M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1996
Moor, Michael R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Environmental Economics
Sanchez, John E. Jr., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering


228




December Meeting, 1995


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1996
Chow, Chi L., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Chair, Department of Mechanical
Engineering
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Lehman, Jeffrey S., Professor of Law and Public Policy, with tenure, Dean, Law School, also
appointed Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Mowbray, Carol T., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Dean for Research, School of Social Work, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Ribbens, William B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure
West, Kenneth B., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Interim
Chair, Department of History, UM-Flint, six-month term
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADE              MIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Banks, Peter M., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, personal
leave extended, January 1-December 31, 1996
Lee, Lung-Fei, Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary extended,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Stacchetti, Ennio S., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary
extended, January 1-May 31, 1996
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Agranoff, Bernard W., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Professor of Biological
Chemistry in Psychiatry, with tenure, and the Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of
Neurosciences, reappointed the Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of Neurosciences,
five-year term, January 18, 1996
Bean, James C., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed Ford Motor Company Co-Director of the Tauber Manufacturing Institute,
three-year and eight-month term, January 1, 1996
Hartford, Maureen A., Vice President for Student Affairs, reappointed Vice President for
Student Affairs, five year term, January 20, 1997
Hayashi, Robert H., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, and the J. Robert
Willson Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics, reappointed the J. Robert Willson Collegiate
Professor of Obstetrics, five-year term, October 1, 1995
Jeszensky, Geza, the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, five-month term,
January 1, 1996
Talbot, Frederick B., Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, also appointed the
Herrick Professor of Manufacturing, five-year term, January 1, 1996
Ulsoy, A. Galip, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
also appointed, the William Clay Ford Professor of Manufacturing, January 1, 1996


229




December Meeting, 1995


Woolliscroft, James 0., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed the
Josiah Macy, Jr. Professor of Medical Education, five year term, December 15, 1995
Zell, Samuel, the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, five-month term,
January 1, 1996
Interim   Appointment Approval. The Regents authorized the president or the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make
such interim  appointments and/or changes from January 1-31, 1996, as may
become necessary to complete the staffing for the winter term.
Maude     T. Lane Professorship        in  Surgical Immunology. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Maude T. Lane Professorship in
Surgical Immunology, effective December 20, 1995.
Josiah    Macy, Jr. Professorship        in  Medical Education. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Josiah Macy, Jr. Professorship in
Medical Education, effective December 15, 1995.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival Board of Trustees
Retroactive reappointments effective October 1, 1995-September 30, 1998
Cole, Phillip              Peters, Helen A.
Edwards, Rosalie           Reece, James S.
Malcolm, Judith W.         Schriber, Thomas J.
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Burrell, Ralph J., reappointed, January 1, 1996-December 31, 1999
UM-Dearborn School of Management Executive Committee
Bayou, Mohamed E., retroactive appointment, January 1, 1994-December 31, 1996, vice
Barbara B. Murray, term expired
Kumar, Kamalesh, appointed, November 10, 1995-December 31, 1998, vacant position
Landon, Timothy E., January 1, 1996-December 31, 1997, vice Gail K. McCracken, term
expired
Murray, Barbara B., retroactive appointment, January 1, 1995-December 31, 1998, vice Gary
A. Waissi, term expired
Padmanaghan, K. H., appointed, November 10, 1995-December 31, 1998, vacant position
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Velasco, Paul C., M.B.A., Lecturer in Business Economics, November 1, 1995
School of Dentistry
Atanase, Corina, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, November 1, 1995
Ignelzi, Michael A. Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, November 1, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Carrigan, Andrew G., A.M., Lecturer II in Creative Writing, January 1, 1996


230




December Meeting, 1995


Erni, Gabriela A., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, September 1, 1995
Wellman, Vincent A., J.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy, January 1, 1996
Medical School
Buysse, Christina A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
November 15, 1995
Freer, James A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, November 1, 1995
Smith, David C., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Surgery, January 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Bonadio, Jeffrey F., from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Research Scientist,
July 1, 1995
Chenoweth, Carol E., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Assistant Professor of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, October 1, 1995
Zubieta, Jon K., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry also appointed Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, August 7, 1995
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Rosano, Michael J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Political Science,
September 1, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1, 1995
Medical School
Whitehouse, Frank Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, eight-month term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alwin, Duane F., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1995 -August 31, 1996
Fricke, Thomas E., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, duty off campus,
October 12-November 13, 1995
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies,
with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1996
Zakharov, Valentine I., Professor of Physics, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Medical School
Coon, William W., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1996
Greenberg, Harry S., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, and Professor of Surgery,
without tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-February 29, 1996
Trobe, Jonathan D., Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, Professor of
Neuro-Ophthalmology, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Neurology, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, October 1, 1995-March 31, 1996


231




December Meeting, 1995


School of Social Work
Lockery, Shirley A., Assistant Professor of Social Work, leave without salary,
January 1-December 31, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Moch, Leslie P., Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair, Department of History, leave
without salary, January 1-December 31, 1996
UM-Flint School of Management
Fortner, Richard W., Professor of Management, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1 1996-December 31, 1997
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hegyi, Dennis J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996-May
31, 1997 (previously reported as January 1, 1996-May 31, 1996)
Office of the President
Kennedy, Richard L., Secretary Emeritus of the University and Vice President for
Government Relations, sick leave, July 1, 1994-June 30, 1996 (previously reported as
July 1, 1994-June 30, 1995)
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
Carter, Carol A., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, resigned
School of Business Administration
Bernard, Victor L., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, and the Price Waterhouse
Professor of Accounting, deceased, November 14, 1995
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shy, John Wo, Professor of History, with tenure, retired
Medical School
Robertson, John M., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, resigned, December 11, 1995
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Clendenin, Heather A., Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, resigned
School of Nursing
Springer, Ninfa S., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, retired
Retirement Memoirs.           The   following   retirement memoirs were
submitted:
Frederick W. Gehring, the T.H. Hildebrandt Distinguished University Professor of Mathematics, will retire from        active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
A native of Ann Arbor, Professor Gehring earned two B.S.E. degrees
(1946) and an M.S. degree (1949) at the University of Michigan. He earned


232




December Meeting, 1995


his Ph.D. degree from the University of Cambridge in 1952. He taught at
Harvard University from 1952-55, when he returned to the University of
Michigan as an instructor in mathematics. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1956, associate professor in 1959, professor in 1961, and the
T.H. Hildebrandt Distinguished University Professor in 1987. Professor
Gehring served three terms as chair of the mathematics department. Among
his honors are the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award (1981), the
Henry Russel Lecturer (1990), and the Sokol Faculty Award (1994). He was
invited three times to address the International Congress of Mathematicians
(1966, 1974, 1986) and was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in
1989.
A Guggenheim Fellowship brought Professor Gehring to the University
of Helsinki and the E.T.H. in Zurich in 1958-60. There he began to learn the
theory of quasiconformal mappings, which became the focus of his life's
work. He was instrumental in developing the theory and bringing it into the
mainstream of mathematical analysis. In particular, he pioneered the important extension of the theory to n-dimensional space, emphasizing new tools
such as extremal length and capacity. More recently he has brought quasiconformal mappings into a broad study of discrete transformation groups.
Throughout his career, Professor Gehring has maintained close ties with
Finnish mathematicians. He speaks fluent Finnish, has made many visits to
the country, and has received several high honors from Finland. Over the
years, he and his wife Lois have also welcomed many Finnish and other
foreign scholars to Ann Arbor. He has directed 26 Ph.D. students at the
University of Michigan, plus 2 others who obtained degrees from other institutions. As a measure of their loyalty and continuing scholarly activity, 25 of
his 28 Ph.D. students attended an international conference held in Professor
Gehring's honor in August 1995.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Frederick W.
Gehring the T. H. Hildebrandt Distinguished University Professor Emeritus
of Mathematics.
Helen M. Graves, associate professor of political science at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Graves received her B.S. degree from  Southern Illinois
University in 1946, her M.A. degree from the University of Minnesota in
1949, and her Ph.D. degree from Wayne State University in 1975. She joined
the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in 1972 as a lecturer in
political science. She was promoted to associate professor in 1976 and has
distinguished herself as the director of the Political Internship Program on
the Dearborn campus.
Two major commitments, one to political internships and experiential
education, and the other to women's education, have marked Professor
Graves' academic career. The innovative internship models that she introduced have received state, national, and international recognition. Through
her efforts, the college's internship/seminar program expanded from one
course to four courses per year.   Professor Graves also initiated a


233




December Meeting, 1995


comparative political experience offered in two Canadian capitals: the first,
in the provincial legislature in Toronto, and the second, a federal experience
in the Canadian House of Commons in Ottawa.      Approximately 1,400
students have had a political internship under her direction. Professor
Graves organized the first "Women, Politics and the Law" course on the
Dearborn campus in 1974 as well as the first women's studies minor certified
by the college. She is a founding member of the University of MichiganDearborn Women's Commission.
Professor Graves' work merited a tribute read on the floor of the House
of Commons in recognition of fifteen years of work organizing the
Toronto/Ottawa Comparative Political Internship.  She was recognized
further by her appointment to a three-year term on the Fulbright Program
for Canadian awards.   Michigan Governor James Blanchard appointed
Professor Graves to the Michigan Women's Commission for two consecutive
three-year terms. Her work with internships in the Michigan House and
Senate was honored by resolutions from both houses. Among her many
awards were the Susan B. Anthony Award given by the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Women's Commission in 1980, the Sarah Goddard Power
Award given by the University's Academic Women's Caucus in 1989, and the
Outstanding Service Award (External) given by the Dearborn campus in
1993. She also served as the first woman president of the Michigan Conference of Political Science in 1970.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and innovative
member of the Dearborn faculty for her dedicated service to the University
by naming Helen M. Graves associate professor emerita of political science.
Joel Isaacson, professor of history of art in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Isaacson received his B.A. degree in design from Brooklyn
College in 1952. He studied painting at the Slade School of Fine Arts in
London from 1954-55 before earning his M.A. degree in painting with a
minor in art history from Oberlin College in 1957. Only then did he devote
his academic energies totally to the history of art, receiving his Ph.D. degree
from the University of California at Berkeley in 1967. Professor Isaacson
came to the University of Michigan in 1964 as instructor of history of art.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1967, associate professor in 1971,
and professor in 1979.
Professor Isaacson enjoys an international reputation as a specialist in
the impressionist painters. His publications range from books on Monet
(Monet: Le dejeuner sur 'herbe, Penguin 1972; and Claude Monet: Observations and Reflections, Phaidon 1978) to major University of Michigan
Museum of Art exhibitions and catalogues of profound scholarly impact
(including Manet and Spain in 1969 and The Crisis of Impressionism in
1980.) Beyond these works of monographic scope, Professor Isaacson has
written numerous articles, reviews, and essays. His most recent article,
"Constable, Duranty, Mallarme Impressionism, Plein Air, and Forgetting,"
in The Art Bulletin (September 1994) is an eloquent excursion into the


234




December Meeting, 1995


complexities of the creative act. It also symbolizes the union of Isaacson's
love for painting as a material, intellectual, and spiritual process and his love
for the discipline of art history as rigorous engagement with that effort.
Throughout his years at Michigan, Professor Isaacson has been an
inspiring teacher to undergraduate students and to the many graduate
students who have flocked to Ann Arbor to study the impressionists with
him. He has also been a warm, generous, genuinely beloved colleague in
every way. He served as chair of the Department of History of Art from
1982-85, during which time he had oversight of the renovations and addition
to Tappan Hall. He has also been a leader within the national professional
organization of art historians and artists, the College Art Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Joel Isaacson professor emeritus of history of art.
Harold R. Johnson, professor of social work, former dean, School of
Social Work, and professor of health behavior and health education, School of
Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1995.
Professor Johnson received his B.A. degree from the University of
Western Ontario in 1950 and his M.S.W. degree from Wayne State University in 1957. He held leadership positions in a variety of public and voluntary social welfare agencies before joining the faculty of the University of
Michigan School of Social Work as a full professor in 1969. He received the
additional appointment in the School of Public Health in 1976.
Prior to his appointment as dean of the School of Social Work in 1981,
Professor Johnson served as head of the school's Community Practice
Program and also as the school's divisional coordinator. From 1975-81, he
was the director of the Institute of Gerontology  He served as dean until
1993, when he became special counsel to the president. In this role, he
assisted with the many issues challenging the University at that time and
provided leadership and a respected presence in the Detroit area. From July
through December 1994, Professor Johnson served as interim secretary of
the university. His wisdom, skill, and expertise in this role afforded the
University the continuity and stability needed throughout this transition
period.
Professor Johnson has a distinguished record of scholarship and publications on gerontological, organizational, and human services issues and has
consulted broadly on these matters. His impressive record of national and
state service includes leadership roles with the White House Conference on
Aging, chair of the National Institute of Mental Health Review Panel for
Geriatric Mental Health Training Grants, and consultant to the National
Institute of Mental Health/National Institute on Aging on the enhancement
of geriatric training. He has been principal investigator for a number of
research and training grants dealing with issues involving aging, the elderly,
and minorities. He was named a Gerontological Society of America Fellow in
recognition of his outstanding contributions to the field of aging. Within the
University, Professor Johnson has served on many search, advisory, and
other committees and has served as chair of SACUA. In 1993, he was the
recipient of the Dreamkeeper Award in recognition of his exceptional


235




December Meeting, 1995


contributions to the University's commitment to cultural diversity. He is
widely respected for the dynamic and thoughtful leadership he brought to
the University and the School of Social Work and for his personal attributes
of fairness, tolerance, and good humor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Harold R. Johnson professor emeritus of social work, professor emeritus of
health behavior and health education, and dean emeritus.
Robert B. Keller, associate professor of mechanical engineering in
the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Keller received his B.S. degree in 1948 from the University of
Wichita and his M.S. degree in 1951 from the University of Michigan. He
worked for North American Aviation as a research engineer from 1951-54
and as engineering supervisor at the Allison Division of General Motors from
1954-59 and then returned to the University of Michigan, where he received
his Ph.D. degree in 1961. He joined the faculty of the mechanical engineering department as an assistant professor in 1961 and was promoted to associate professor in 1964.
Professor Keller's research has focused on the area of fluid mechanics,
and he has published papers on forced and self-excited oscillations in propellant lines, dynamics of two-dimensional confined jets, thermistor probe for
low velocity flow measurement, air-breathing engines in a first stage boost
vehicle, and electrical hazards posed by graphite fuses. He maintained his
ties with industry while on the faculty, consulting with numerous firms
throughout his long career. From 1985 until the present, Professor Keller
has collaborated on NASA-sponsored microgravity pool boiling research. In
this capacity, he has designed and developed successful instrumentation,
controller, and data acquisition systems for the experiments, including
pressure controller, temperature controller, and heater temperature controller. He also collaborated on similar research regarding forced convection
boiling projects.
In service to the department, Professor Keller has been a member of the
Advisory Committee, served as advisor for the student chapter of ASME and
as coordinator of the Power Faculty, and supervised the Fluid Mechanics
Laboratory. In recognition of his outstanding efforts as a teacher throughout
his career, Professor Keller received the 1992 MEAM Teaching Excellence
Award. Among his achievements as an educator are his coordination of the
Whirlpool Fellowship Program and his design and development of experiments and instrumentation for a number of laboratory courses, particularly
in the area of automatic controls.
The Regents now salute this educator and scholar for his contributions
by naming Robert B. Keller associate professor emeritus of mechanical
engineering.
Howard Schuman, professor of sociology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Survey Research Center,


236




December Meeting, 1995


Institute for Social Research, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Schuman received his A.B. degree in 1953 from Antioch
College, his M.S. degree in 1956 from Trinity University, and his Ph.D.
degree in 1961 from Harvard University. He joined the University of Michigan in 1964 as an assistant professor of sociology; he was promoted to associate professor in 1967 and professor in 1971.
Much of Professor Schuman's research has arisen out of his concerns for
peace and social justice. Other work reflects a lifelong dedication to understanding survey research and to improving the quality of survey instruments
and the information they convey. His publications include important works
on racial attitudes in the United States and the methodology of attitude
surveys. He has been a leader in the experimental implementation of survey
instruments to ascertain the effects of questions' wording and context on the
information being gathered. Professor Schuman has mentored many graduate students and has co-authored numerous journal articles with them. He
has also been a valued undergraduate instructor.
Professor Schuman has served as director of ISR's Survey Research
Center, chair of the Department of Sociology, director of the Detroit Area
Study, and has served in the Senate Assembly and on the Rackham Graduate
School's Divisional Board for the Social Sciences, including one year as board
chair. He has been on the editorial boards of numerous journals; has edited
the journals Social Psychology and Public Opinion Quarterly; and was
elected president of the American Association for Public Opinion Research
(AAPOR) in 1985-86.
Among Professor Schuman's honors are the Gordon W. Allport Prize in
1970, a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1980-81, and a fellowship at the Center
for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in 1985-86. He received the
Annual Scholarship Award of the North Central Sociological Association for
his book, Racial Attitudes in America, in 1986 and received a Distinguished
Faculty Achievement Award from the University in 1989. He was named a
fellow of the Society of Personality and Social Psychology in 1991, and in
1993, he was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
In 1994, he received AAPOR's Award for Exceptionally Distinguished
Achievement in the field of public opinion and research.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Howard Schuman professor emeritus of sociology and research scientist emeritus.
John W. Shy, professor of history, will retire from active faculty status
on December 31, 1995, after 28 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Shy received his B.S. degree in 1952 from the United States
Military Academy, his M.A. degree in 1957 from the University of Vermont,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1961 from Princeton University, where he also
taught for 10 years. He came to Ann Arbor in 1967 as associate professor of
history. He was promoted to professor in 1971.


237




December Meeting, 1995


Professor Shy is the preeminent American authority on the military
aspects of the Revolutionary era. He has led the way in emancipating
military history from its traditionally narrow focus upon strategy and tactics,
making it instead an essential component of any full understanding of
humanity's past. Professor Shy's first work, Toward Lexington: The Role of
the British Army in the Coming of the Revolution, published in 1956, was
instantly recognized as a seminal contribution, and received the John H.
Dunning Prize from the American Historical Association. Since that time, he
has published extensively. A People Numerous and Armed: Reflections on
the Miitary Struggle for American Independence, published in 1976 and in a
revised edition in 1990, is widely praised because of its perceptivity and
breadth of vision.
Professor Shy's courses in military history and in the American colonial
period are models of their kind, extremely popular with students, and he has
been equally successful in teaching the survey course in American history.
He has directed the graduate work of a number of Ph.D. candidates. He has
presided over the creation of the Military Studies Group, an informal but
impressive gathering of those with such interests that is now nationally
recognized for its quality.
Within the Department of History, Professor Shy has been a frequent
member of the executive committee and served a term as associate chair. He
has been a member of the council of the Institute of Early American History,
the Department of the Army Historical Advisory Committee and, during his
entire service in Ann Arbor, the Committee of Management of the William L.
Clements Library. He is also a trustee of the Society for Military History.
He has been a visiting professor at the United States Army War College and
the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales. In 1983-84, he served as
the Harmsworth Professor of American History at Oxford, the most prestigious appointment in American history in the United Kingdom. Just recently,
he received from this University both a Distinguished Faculty Achievement
Award and a Distinguished Senior Lecturer Award.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming John W. Shy
professor emeritus of history.
Ninfa S. Springer, associate professor of nursing and assistant
research scientist, School of Nursing, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Springer obtained her B.S. degree from the University of the
Philippines in 1952 and her M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Iowa in 1957 and 1959, respectively. She joined the University of Michigan in
1969 as program director of nutrition at the Institute for the Study of Mental
Retardation and Related Disabilities (ISMRRD), where she developed and
directed training, research, and clinical programs in nutrition. Concurrently,
she was assistant professor in the School of Public Health.  She was
promoted to associate professor in 1978 and moved to the School of Nursing
in 1982 after federal support for ISMRRD was terminated.
Professor Springer was among the first School of Nursing faculty
members to utilize computer exercises in her courses. Her recent focus has


238




December Meeting, 1995


been on the continuing development of Clinical Computer Aided Simulation
Exercises (Ccase), which is a user-friendly software package that allows
faculty to develop units specific to their specialties. She has authored or
co-authored a number of specialty units for Ccase currently being used by
nursing faculty in courses taken by 300 undergraduate students each year.
Her research endeavors focused on the nutritional status of pregnant
women, infants, and children. Most recently, she served as co-investigator
on a five-year project comparing services and outcomes of pregnant women
served by certified nurse midwives or obstetricians. In addition to her
academic and research responsibilities, Professor Springer has served as
consultant for numerous agencies and institutions here and abroad. She has
also served in various professional capacities with the American Dietetic
Association at the local, state, and national levels.
Professor Springer has received numerous awards and has authored 48
journal manuscripts, books, chapters, and audiovisual and computer units.
Her many interdisciplinary collaborations resulted in publications with
co-authors from the fields of information technology, nursing, pharmacology,
psychology, social work, and special education.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Ninfa S. Springer associate professor emerita of nursing and assistant
research scientist emerita.
Memorial Statement. The death of one faculty member, Victor L.
Bernard, was reported to the Regents. Vice President Kinnear commented
on the accomplishments of Professor Bernard, who had been his colleague in
the business school.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on November 14, 1995, of Victor L. Bernard, the Price
Waterhouse Professor of Accounting and director of the Paton Accounting
Center.
Professor Bernard was a model faculty member who was among the
most highly regarded researchers in his field as well as an outstanding
teacher. His combination of academic excellence, approachability, and an
unusual ability to communicate his knowledge effectively placed him in high
demand. He was extremely generous in sharing his considerable knowledge
and insights and never disappointed the many students, faculty, colleagues,
and others from around the world who so frequently called upon him. In one
of many acknowledgments of his extraordinary ability and character, Professor Bernard was the first recipient, in 1994, of the business school's "Leadership in Teaching Award," which recognized his contributions to students and
to the development of junior faculty members.
Professor Bernard's research was sometimes controversial and always
highly respected. His work had significant impact in academia and business
and provided his students with leading-edge knowledge. Professor Bernard
was considered an expert on the savings and loan industry; he co-authored a
book on the subject in 1989 and testified before Congress about the industry
several times. A controversial series of publications he researched and wrote
with a colleague documented a systematic inefficiency in the stock market;


239




December Meeting, 1995


this work continues to generate interest and study on Wall Street and in
academia. At the time of his death, Professor Bernard was excited about his
work in the area of fundamental analysis, a method for company valuation
on which he was breaking new ground. The recently published textbook he
co-authored, Business Analysis and Valuation, provided state-of-the-art
information on this subject.
Professor Bernard won the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants/American Accounting Association "Notable Contribution to the
Accounting Literature Award" twice, a rare achievement. Another reflection
of the esteem in which he was held was his selection as research director and
executive committee member of the American Accounting Association. He
earned his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois in 1982 and joined the
Michigan faculty the same year. In just six years, he was promoted to
tenured full professor.
Despite enviable achievement in his work, Professor Bernard's life was
filled with other pursuits that were profoundly important to him. He valued
his work as a scout leader for his son Lewis, 11, and he was proud to serve as
a softball coach for neighborhood girls when his daughter Marie, now 14, was
younger. And he considered scaling Mount Kilimanjaro to be one of his
greatest accomplishments.
Victor Bernard left behind a powerful legacy and set high standards for
the School of Business Administration and the University. As we mourn the
loss of this great scholar, teacher, advisor, and friend, our condolences go to
his companion, Dara Faris; his former wife Maureen; his two children; his
sisters, Brenda Custis and Connie Bishop; and his parents, Glenn Lewis and
Erma S. Bernard.
Degrees. There was no action with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approved.       On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the consent
agenda.
Presidential Retirement Security Program
Regent Varner stated that she was offering a resolution in light of the
fact that the president has decided not to take the sabbatical leave to which
he was entitled when he resigned from the presidency.
Regents' Resolution
In September 1993, the Regents approved a presidential
retirement security  program  for  President Duderstadt in
accordance with provisions that had been made for past presidents
after they ended their service as presidents. As part of that
program the Regents provided for a transitional year as follows:
'A  one year sabbatical leave    at the   presidential
compensation rate at the end of his career as president and
prior to resuming his role as a faculty member. "


240




December Meeting, 1995


President Duderstadt has now indicated to us his desire to
return immediately to the faculty and not to take the sabbatical
leave provided him. In addition to his teaching, research, and
service responsibilities, President Duderstadt has indicated his
willingness to continue to serve the University in institutional
advancement, as needed and requested. In light of his expressed
intention to forego his presidential sabbatical year, the Regents
hereby authorize the presidential sabbatical year compensation
stipulated in the September 1993 agreement to be provided to
President Duderstadt in equal fourths over a four year period,
beginning on July 1, 1996.
All other provisions of the 1993 resolution shall remain as
originally stipulated. Regent Varner is authorized to enter into a
letter agreement with President Duderstadt incorporating the
terms and conditions set forth in this resolution.
We thank President Duderstadt for his willingness to continue
to serve the University, both in institutional advancement and as a
faculty member.
Regent Varner offered the resolution as a motion; it was supported by
Regent McFee. Regent Baker observed that he had voted against the original presidential retirement security program because he had objected to
some of its structure, and his position has not changed. His negative vote
should not be construed as anything other than the view he held at that
time.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved on a vote of
seven to one, with Regent Baker opposed.
Alternative Asset Investment (OCM Opportunities Fund, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $8 million of the Long Term Portfolio
to the OCM Opportunities Fund, L.P., pending favorable legal review of the
documents by the general counsel's office.
Sale of $5,000,000 Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic
Revenue Bonds, Series 1995
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of the
Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1995.
Sale of $56,705,000 Regents of The University of Michigan Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1995A,
1995B, 1995C, and 1995D
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of
the Construction and Renovation Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1995A,
1995B, 1995C, and 1995D.


241




December Meeting, 1995


Stadium and Main Plaza Development
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university
planner, to describe a proposed project for improvements to the entrance
area to Michigan Stadium, at the corner of Stadium Boulevard and Main
Street.
Mr. Mayer gave a presentation describing the project and proposed
improvements, the first phase of which includes construction of new
entrance gates that will be moved further back from the intersection, repaving the area with brick, renovation and relocation of the base for the veterans memorial sculpture at the main entrance, consolidation of vendor stands
and improvement of pedestrian circulation inside the gates, and general
upgrading of the landscaping. Mr. Joe Roberson, athletic director, was also
present to respond to questions.
The total project is to be completed in phases over the next five years as
funding is identified. It was noted that the brick paving presents extraordinary opportunities for fundraising. Regent Power observed that this project
is an example of the University and the city of Ann Arbor working cooperatively together.
Following the discussion, Regent Horning moved to proceed with the
project as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Power seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
South Ferry Field Sports Service Building
Mr. Mayer gave a presentation describing the project, site, and proposed
design of a sports service building for the two South Ferry Field playing
fields that are heavily used for women's sports. The building would provide
locker rooms, rest rooms, equipment storage, two offices, and conference
space. The project also includes construction of a small press box between
the two fields.
Regent McGowan expressed equally strong enthusiasm for this project
as for the Stadium/Main renovation project and moved approval of the
project, site, design, and proceeding with the project as described. Regent
Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
East University Walkway
Mr. Mayer gave a presentation describing plans for the East University
Walkway, which is noted in the 1987 Central Campus Master Plan Update as
vital to the master plan concept for the central campus. He reviewed three
schemes that had been proposed for the walkway and described the chosen
scheme in detail. Following the presentation, Regent Power moved to
approve proceeding with the project as described. Regent McFee seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


242




December Meeting, 1995


North Campus Core Area Landscape Plan
Mr. Mayer observed that until now, landscape planning for the North
Campus had focused on preservation of existing trees, streams, and other
natural features which characterize the land on which North Campus was
developed. However, the development of the campus has led to a need for a
strong landscape concept for the academic core. To develop such a concept,
Mr. Mayer informed the Regents that the University had held a limited
competition under which three leading landscape architectural firms were
asked to submit entries which were judged by a jury consisting of various
University academic and business personnel. The winning scheme was
submitted by the firm of Johnson, Johnson & Roy/inc.
Mr. Mayer reviewed the winning plan in detail and the other schemes in
brief. Following his presentation, he noted that any of the schemes, including the winning scheme, would have to be refined somewhat as projects are
defined and implemented. Specific implementation projects will be brought
to the Regents as they are developed.
Regent McGowan asked whether anyone examining the scheme had
expressed concerns over safety issues. Mr. Mayer responded that officials
were comfortable that the trees and other features of the scheme would not
hinder visibility or otherwise contribute to safety concerns. Regarding the
issue of lighting, Mr. Mayer explained that the current philosophy of lighting
being implemented is to provide "overall lighting", in which every place on
campus will have a minimal level of lighting, with no dark spots. In addition,
every individual lighting and landscaping scheme is reviewed with safety
officials before being implemented.
There followed some discussion about the history of the development of
the North Campus site. Regent Baker expressed concerns that the Regents
had not been informed of the competition for the landscape design in
advance. Regents McFee and Power thanked Mr. Mayer and others involved
in the series of presentations that morning, noting that they had been very
helpful in enhancing their understanding of planning issues.
Negotiations with Mission Health
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. John Forsyth, executive
director of University Hospitals, to report on the recently concluded negotiations with the Daughters of Charity, the Sisters of Mercy, and Mission
Health Corporation. Mr. Forsyth reported that a memorandum of understanding had been agreed to seven months ago to look at the desirability and
feasibility of integrating Mission Health and the University of Michigan
Hospitals/Clinical Delivery System. It was found that this integration would
be highly desirable and would result in very significant cost savings over a
ten-year period, and that much of these savings could only take place if the
assets were merged over a short period of time.
After all parties agreed that integration was desirable, the next question
involved feasibility. The University's representatives reached the conclusion


243




December Meeting, 1995


that integration would only be feasible if there were a merger in a relatively
short period of time.   The Daughters of Charity and Sisters of Mercy
suggested at the final meeting that a separate company be set up that would
include a limited number of operations, with component parts being added
on an incremental basis. Mr. Forsyth reported that the University believed
that under that model, the previously mentioned savings could not be
achieved; they could only be achieved with a complete operational integration. Therefore, the University decided not to extend the memorandum of
understanding, and no further discussions are scheduled.
Regents Baker and Power commented on the fact that even though
these negotiations did not succeed, the University continues to be a leader in
its commitment to seeking ways to reduce health care costs.
Action Requests Related to Purchase of Monroe Diagnostics, Inc.
An executive summary and complete details of the following action
requests can be found in the Regents Communication.
Lease Agreement with Dr. Ihsan Ui Haq. On a motion by Regent
Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved a lease
agreement with Dr. Ihsan Ui Haq which adds 4,676 square feet to the
10,424.5 square feet the University has rented from Dr. Haq since June 15,
1995. Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was taken.
Because Dr. Haq is also a University employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Dr. Haq.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is through June 14, 2002.
The University will lease property located at 901 North Macomb Street,
Monroe, Michigan. The medical office facility is 3,676 square feet, at a
rental rate of $14.00 per square foot, $51,464 annually (for year one starting
December 20, 1995, with a 3% inflation cost added for each subsequent year)
plus the Tenant's pro rata share of the Landlord's operating expenses for
each calendar year during the term of the lease. The Medical Center will
place clericals, radiological technologists, and physicians to provide necessary radiology services to the community.
3.  Dr. Haq's pecuniary interest arises from ownership of the building. Dr. Haq
will receive revenues generated by the leasing of the property to the
University.
Purchase    agreement with      Claudia   K. Breen    d/b/a  Deluxe
Leasing Company. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent
McFee, the Regents unanimously approved a purchase agreement between
the University of Michigan and Claudia K. Breen d/b/a/ Deluxe Leasing
Company. Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was taken.
Because Ms. Breen is a University employee, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


244




December Meeting, 1995


1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Claudia K.
Breen d/b/a/ Deluxe Leasing Company.
2.   Terms of the contract: The University will purchase from Claudia K. Breen
d/b/a/ Deluxe Leasing Company, located at 6103 Sterling, Newport, Michigan,
11 pieces of radiological equipment on December 20, 1995. The purchase
price is $213,970. The Medical Center will place clericals, technicians, and
physicians to provide necessary radiology services to the community.
3.   Ms. Breen's pecuniary interest arises from ownership of the Deluxe Leasing
Company. Ms. Breen will receive revenues generated by the sale of the
radiological equipment owned by Deluxe Leasing Company to the
University.
Asset Purchase Agreement with Monroe Diagnostics, Inc. On a
motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved an agreement to purchase all of the assets of Monroe
Diagnostics, Inc. Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was
taken. Because Claudia K. Green is both a 50 percent stockholder in Monroe
Diagnostics, Inc. and is also a University employee, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Monroe
Diagnostics, Inc.
2.   Terms of the contract: The University will purchase all of the assets of
Monroe Diagnostics, Inc., located at 901 N. Macomb Street, Monroe, Michigan, on December 20, 1995. The purchase price is $9,873. The medical
center will place clericals, technicians, and physicians to provide necessary
radiology services to the community.
3.   Ms. Breen's pecuniary interest arises from fifty percent ownership of the
stock of Monroe Diagnostics, Inc.
Certificate of Need Application. On a motion by Regent Power,
seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved submission
of an application for a Certificate of Need to the Michigan Department of
Public Health for Medical Associates Imaging, HCA at the Monroe Health
Center to be a host site for a mobile CT scanner, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Student Funded Infrastructure Fee Program
Mr. Paul Spradlin, director of plant extension, and Mr. James Christenson, director of plant operations, gave a presentation describing the accomplishments made possible by the student funded infrastructure fee program.
Mr. Christenson noted that more than $18 million from this fund and $6
million in one-time state funds has been spent since the inception of this
program, cutting the deferred maintenance backlog in half. The presentation concluded with a videotape showing some of the improvements that
have been made possible through the fee program.


245




December Meeting, 1995


Renaming of East Engineering and West Engineering Buildings
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved renaming of the present East Engineering and West
Engineering Buildings as East Hall and West Hall, respectively.
Renaming of North Campus Commons in Honor of Wilbur K.
Pierpont
President Duderstadt observed that the current policy for naming buildings after an individual is that upon approval by the Board of Regents, buildings are named after a) donors who contribute more than fifty percent of the
cost of the facility, b) presidents of the University, and c) deceased members
of the University community whom it is appropriate to honor.
To name a building after Wilbur K. Pierpont, who served first as
controller (1947-50) and then as vice president and chief financial officer
(1950-77) would be an exception to this policy. However, President Duderstadt noted the extraordinary influence he had had on the University and
especially on the development of the North Campus. Dr. Pierpont had
envisioned the North Campus Commons, which was one of the original buildings on the North Campus and built during his tenure as vice president, as
the cornerstone of social and community life on the North Campus.
Because of his extraordinary service to and impact on the University,
this request is being made as an exception to the current building naming
guidelines.
Regent Baker moved to rename the North Campus Commons in honor
of Dr. Wilbur K. Pierpont. Regent Power seconded the motion. Regent
Baker noted that he had come to know Dr. Pierpont during his first eight
years on the board, and that he was a "great teacher." He noted that the
North Campus had been acquired during Dr. Pierpont's tenure and is an
indication of his foresight. Therefore, he expressed enthusiastic support for
this recommendation.
Regent Varner stated that she was also delighted with the recommendation, noting that when she first started working in administration at the
University, Dr. Pierpont had been a great mentor, a wonderful person, and
an excellent vice president.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously. It
was noted that Dr. Pierpont himself will be consulted as to what will be the
exact name of the facility.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved the following renovation projects: Medical
Campus way finding improvements; renovation of the third level of Kellogg
Eye Center for the Department of Ophthalmology; and renovation in the


246




December Meeting, 1995


North University Building to accommodate a research laboratory in the
Herbarium.
Lease Agreement with Rubinoff, Stein, and Weiner
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with Rubinoff, Stein and Weiner.
Because Drs. Rubinoff, Stein, and Weiner are also University employees, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Dr. Rubinoff,
Dr. Weiner, and Dr. Stein (Rubinoff, Stein & Weiner).
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract is through January 15,
2001. The University will lease property located at 2100 Middlebelt Road,
Farmington, Michigan. The medical office facility is 2,600 square feet, at a
rental rate of $16.00 per square foot, $41,604 annually (for year one starting
January 15, 1996, with a 3 percent inflation cost added for each subsequent
year) plus the Tenant's pro rata share of the Landlord's operating expenses
for each calendar year during the term of the lease. The Medical Center will
place clericals, medical office assistants, nurses, and physicians to provide
necessary pediatric services to the community.
3.  Dr. Rubinoffs, Dr. Stein's, and Dr. Weiner's pecuniary interest arises from
ownership of the building. The physicians will receive revenues generated
by the leasing of the property to the University.
New Degree Program       for the UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
("Master of Science in Engineering (Automotive Engineering)")
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a new degree program to be offered by the
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering:      "Master of Science in Engineering
(Automotive Engineering)."
Gift of Property (AutoWorld)
President Duderstadt stated that this is an extraordinary opportunity for
the future of the University of Michigan and the University of Michigan-Flint,
as well as for the city of Flint. Chancellor Nelms reviewed the reasons that
the gift of the AutoWorld property is important for the Flint campus: 1) the
campus is currently "landlocked," and this property would provide opportunities for growth; 2) UM-Flint will be better positioned to work in a more
collaborative fashion with the city of Flint and other entities within the city;
3) it helps to ensure University control over how this prime piece of property
is developed. He noted that the city of Flint had passed a companion resolution endorsing this action, and also that prior to completing the transaction,
the property will be cleared of all buildings and that environmental assessment and remediation will have been completed.
Regent Varner moved acceptance of the gift of the AutoWorld property,
subject to fulfillment of all conditions to the satisfaction of the executive vice
president and chief financial officer and chancellor and authorization for the


247




December Meeting, 1995


executive vice president and chief financial officer and president to execute
all necessary documents. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker observed that acquisition of this property will be the
equivalent of Wilbur Pierpont's acquisition of the land for North Campus.
He thanked President Duderstadt, Chancellor Nelms, the Mott Foundation,
the city of Flint, and all others who had participated in the transaction,
noting that "it's just a marvelous thing that's been done."
Regent McGowan expressed her agreement with Regent Baker's
comments. Regent Power pointed out the importance of the fact that the
site will be cleared and environmental issues dealt with before the transaction is completed. For this, he wished to recognize the "consistent, supportive, far-sighted support given to the University and the Flint campus by the
Mott Foundation."
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
40 Acres in Burt Township, Cheboygan County, Michigan
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
approved purchase of the SE 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of Section 6, Burt Township,
Cheboygan County, Michigan at a price of $17,000, subject to satisfactory
completion of environmental due diligence, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Proposed Revision of the Bylaws of the Board of Regents Governing
Intercollegiate Athletics
President Duderstadt reported that in response to a request from the
Regents, an ad hoc committee had prepared proposed revisions to the
Regents' Bylaws governing intercollegiate athletics. The intention is to bring
the proposed revisions to the Regents and the larger University community
at this time for initial reaction and comments. He called on Vice President
Harrison, who had chaired the ad hoc committee and served as its liaison to
the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics.
Vice President Harrison stated that the goals of the committee were 1)
to bring the athletic department more in line with the way that the rest of
the University operates; 2) to make it clear that the athletic department and
the athletic director report to the president, who in turn reports to the Board
of Regents; 3) to provide that policy questions or questions affecting the
public standing of the University come to the Board of Regents; and 4) to
clarify the relationship between what is now known as the Board in Control
of Intercollegiate Athletics, the athletic direthe atetic director, the president, and the
Board of Regents.
Vice President Harrison reported that the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics ("Board in Control") had recently had a working session in
which they had reviewed the proposed revised bylaws, and that he planned to
incorporate some of their comments into a new draft for further discussion.


248




December Meeting, 1995


He anticipated that other groups, such as SACUA, MSA, and the Alumni
Association, would also desire to review and comment upon the proposal.
Regent Newman suggested that before incorporating the comments of
the Board in Control into a new document, it might be more productive to
provide the Board of Regents with the comments made by the Board in
Control. She requested that the Regents be provided with a written synopsis
of the comments of the Board in Control.
Regent Deitch observed that he had reviewed the preliminary draft of
the bylaws revisions and commended the working group for its effort. He
suggested that Section 11.212 (regarding the director and operation of the
Department of Athletics) still needs additional work, particularly the
sentence, "All matters that affect the reputation, character, or public standing of the University shall be brought before the Board." He believes that
sentence should be more "specific and definitive" in order to more clearly
state its intent. Specifically, he observed that it is clear that the Board of
Regents has authority over physical property and intangible personal
property, such as investments. He believes that the matter of regental
oversight in the area of intellectual property, such as the use of the trademarks and image of the University, ought to be more specifically defined. It
is his belief that the Board of Regents owns the University's trademarks, just
as it owns physical property and other University assets.
Regent Deitch also cited an example of a policy decision made by the
athletic department that affected the life of the University: scheduling an
early football game, which affects the move-in dates for the dormitories and
other aspects of student life. He also cited problems that have occurred in
the implementation of Title IX that perhaps should have received more
oversight by the Board. Therefore, he advised that more thought be given
toward addressing these issues so that there will be a clear understanding of
responsibility for future boards and administrators.
Regent Baker stated that he had been "dumfounded" by the proposed
revisions, which he believes are an overreaction to legitimate Regental
concerns. For instance, he believes that for the most part, the Athletic
Department has been a very positive force for the University, and that the
revisions unnecessarily remove the authority and financial control of the
Board in Control. He expressed the hope that people concerned with athletics would speak up and defend the department.
President Duderstadt reiterated that this topic would be subject to much
discussion and interaction with Board in the coming months.
Regent Newman expressed her support for Regent Deitch's remarks.
She stated that she believes strongly that the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics should be advisory, because its members are appointed rather
than elected. She noted that that board currently makes financial decisions
which do not necessarily come to the attention of the executive vice president
and chief financial officer, president, or Regents, but that the Regents are


249




December Meeting, 1995


ultimately responsible for the dissemination of those funds. She does not
believe it should be in the purview of the appointed Board in Control to
oversee the actions and the decisions of the athletic director; rather the
board should function in an advisory capacity to the athletic director.
Regent Newman suggested a change to the proposed language of Bylaw
Section 11.214(6), to the effect that the director of athletics should chair the
committee, rather than serve on the committee without vote. She believes
that since the committee should only be advisory, no voting is necessary for
anyone on it; control of the athletic department should be in the hands of the
athletic director, who has been chosen by the president and appointed by the
Board of Regents.
Regent Deitch observed that these comments should not be interpreted
as denigrating the past achievements of the Athletic Department. Rather,
they are an indication that change occurs as institutions evolve, so that it is
appropriate that the people who are held accountable also ought to have
commensurate responsibility.
President Duderstadt commented that intercollegiate athletics has
changed significantly over the past decade. The Big Ten Conference is now
incorporated, with decisions being made by the Big Ten presidents sitting as
a formal board of directors. That structure is also going to be adopted by the
Division I schools in the NCAA, and the proposed changes to the bylaws are
very appropriate in that context.
Vice President Harrison commented that public discussion of this issue
can be expected to resume at the February meeting. He also presented the
Regents with a petition from the Student Athlete Advisory Council requesting that student athletes be elected to the Athletics Advisory Committee. He
reviewed the procedure followed for changes to the Regents' Bylaws:
Proposed changes are published in the University Record for public reaction
and discussion 14 days prior to being placed on the Regents' agenda for a
vote.
President Duderstadt announced that the last order of business would
be a presentation about presidential search models. Following that, the
meeting would be adjourned and the Regents would then reconvene as a
presidential search committee to hear proposals from executive consulting
firms.
Presidential Search Models
Provost Machen noted that this presentation had been prepared in
response to a request from the Regents to conduct research about how presidential searches are being conducted at peer institutions. He introduced Ms.
Marilyn Knepp, director of Academic Planning and Analysis, to present a
report summarizing the findings of this research.
Ms. Knepp gave a slide presentation about various models for conducting presidential searches, based on information obtained from  recent


250




December Meeting, 1995


presidential searches conducted at the following institutions: University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, University of Iowa, Michigan State University, Oakland University, The Pennsylvania State University, Central Michigan University, Ferris State University, University of California, University
of Washington, and the University of Michigan.
The Regents requested copies of the summaries of the interviews which
provided the basis for the presentation.
Adjournment
Following the presentation, the regular meeting was adjourned at 12:10
p.m. There will be no regular meeting in January 1996; the next meeting
will occur February 15 and 16, 1996. Regents' expenses for the month of
November 1995 totaled $2,924.30.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


251




SPECIAL MEETING, JANUARY 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Friday Januay 19, 1996
The Regents met at 8:55 a.m. in the Gerald R. Ford Library to consider
two business items. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker,
Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Varner. Secretary
Palmer, Provost Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Harrison and Hartford were also present.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Executive Vice President Womack to present the first item of business.
Easement to City of Ann Arbor for Sidewalk Placement and South
Main Street Widening Project
Executive Vice President Womack noted that the Regents had approved
a project for improvements to the area surrounding the entrance to the
football stadium. These improvements called for moving and replacement of
the current fence to provide for an additional lane of traffic at the South
Main Street/Stadium Boulevard intersection. Action on an easement request
from the city to begin this work is necessary now to comply with conditions
of a federal grant for partial funding of the project.
Regent Power moved authorization for the executive vice president and
chief financial officer to grant an easement on University land on the east
side of South Main Street to the City of Ann Arbor, as described in the
Regents Communication, and to proceed with the project as described.
Regent Horning seconded the motion.
Executive Vice President Womack stated that this action would improve
crowd flow at the corner of Stadium Boulevard and South Main Street.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously
1996 Henry Russel Lecturer
President Duderstadt commented that the Henry Russel Lectureship is
the highest award the University bestows upon a faculty member. He noted
that the recommended recipient, Professor Ludwig Koenen, is a faculty
member of international distinction.
Regent Baker moved the appointment of Ludwig Koenen, the Herbert C.
Youtie Distinguished University Professor of Papyrology, as the Henry
Russel Lecturer for 1996. Regent Varner seconded the motion. Regent
McFee commented that she had been extremely impressed by the
background material she had received about Professor Koenen. Regent
Power observed that Professor Koenen is not only an internationally


253




January 19, 1996, Specal Meeting


acclaimed scholar, but also an extraordinary personality, because of "his
extraordinary warmth and knowledge and willingness to talk to anybody
about anything."
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:00 a.m.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


254




SPECIAL MEETING, JANUARY 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Friday, January 25, 1996
The Regents met at 4:00 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and
Varner. Also present were Secretary Palmer, Provost Machen, Executive
Vice President Womack, and Vice Presidents Harrison and Hartford.
Regent Baker, acting as chair of the Board of Regents in the absence of
the president, noted that the Presidential Search Committee had made a
recommendation to the Board of Regents to elect Vice President Homer A.
Neal as interim president, effective July 1, 1996. Regent Newman moved
acceptance of this recommendation; Regent McGowan seconded the motion.
Regent McFee commented that it was appropriate for this decision to be
made at this time, following the adoption of a search plan and timetable. She
noted that Vice President Neal wanted it made clear that he would not
become president until President Duderstadt steps down. At the appropriate
time, Vice President Neal would start working with President Duderstadt to
accomplish a smooth transition, but until that time Vice President Neal
wished to be allowed to attend to his current responsibilities.
To accommodate the schedule of one of the Regents, Regent Newman
requested that the question be called at this point. The vote was then taken,
and the election of Homer A. Neal as interim president, effective July 1, 1996,
upon the retirement of President Duderstadt, was approved unanimously.
Regent Baker commented that he could not think of a better person to
serve in this capacity than Vice President Neal; that he is a superb choice.
Regent McGowan observed that "this is a moment of complete unanimity at
this table, in this room, and throughout this University community," and
thanked Vice President Neal for his willingness to assume this role.
Regent Power thanked Vice President Neal and his family for being
willing to serve, and stated that he is the ideal choice for this position. "I
don't know of any one person for whom every constituency in this University
has shared respect and admiration and happiness to be working with other
than Homer Neal."
Regent Deitch thanked Vice President Neal and noted that the Regents
were very lucky that he was willing to accept this responsibility.
Vice President Neal made the following comments:
"I am deeply honored to have been asked by the Board to make
myself available to be interim president, and I am also very grateful


255




January 25, 1996, Special Meeting


for the encouragement that I've received from my fellow executive
officers.
If (and you'll notice the word, if) interim leadership is required,
if it is indeed needed, which of course depends on the pace of the
search process, I believe I can say with a great deal of confidence
that my fellow executive officers and I are prepared to strive to
nurture and sustain those initiatives that Jim Duderstadt and the
Board have underway, to work to sustain the overall momentum of
the campus generally, and to work to prepare for the effective
transfer of leadership to the next president.
I am very sorry that Jim Duderstadt can't be with us today;
that's the one matter that adds a note of sadness to this event. But
Jim is traveling. I think many of you know I have a very high
degree of admiration for him and for his vision for the University.
And indeed, that was the reason I agreed a couple of years ago to
come over and work with him for the remaining period of his
presidency.
In this vein, the reason for allowing my name to stand for
consideration for the interim appointment is that I think it is a
shared responsibility that the executive officers and I have to see
that the momentum of the campus is sustained during this rather
sensitive period as the Board searches for a new president. I'd like
to echo the comment made by Regent McFee that is veryimportant
for us all to remember that Jim is and will continue to be the
president of the university, and the executive officers and I look
forward to his vigorous leadership up until the very last moment of
his term as president. The University can have only one president
at a time.
So I'd like to thank the Regents again for the confidence you've
expressed in me, and we will work very, very hard to make sure
that we deserve it.
There followed a standing ovation.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, and
unanimously approved by the Regents, the meeting was adjourned at 4:20
p.m..
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


256




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 15, 1996
The Regents met at 2:50 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, McFee, Newman, Power, and
Varner. Provost Machen, Executive Vice President Womack, Vice Presidents
Harrison and Hartford, and Secretary Palmer were also present. Regents
Horning and McGowan, Vice Presidents Kinnear and Neal, and Chancellors
Nelms and Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
Regent McFee made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on Thursday, February 15, 1996 to consider material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion
from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then resumed in executive session. The meeting ended at 5:30
p.m.
Public Comments
There were no public comments; one speaker had been scheduled but
did not attend.
Friday, February 16, 1996
The Regents met at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, Newman,
Power, and Varner. Secretary Palmer, Provost Machen, and Executive Vice
President Womack were also present, as were Vice Presidents Harrison,
Hartford, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors Nelms and Renick. Regent
McGowan was absent.
Michigan Initiative for Women's Health
Provost Machen noted that each Regent had received a copy of the
publication, Women's Health: A Guide to Curricular Opportunities at the
University of Michigan. He introduced the three students who had compiled
this guide: Laura Katz, Mona Kumar, and Valerie Press, thanked them for


257




February Meeting, 1996


their efforts, and noted that it would be a very useful volume for people who
have an interest in taking courses involving women's health or related
issues.
Higher Education Appropriation
President Duderstadt reported that the University of Michigan was very
encouraged by the governor's "exceptionally strong" recommendation for an
increase of 5 percent in the higher education appropriation. The recommendation provides an across-the-board increase of 4 percent for all of the state's
public colleges and universities, with a minimum "floor" amount per enrolled
student that will particularly benefit the Dearborn campus. He also lauded
the governor for recognizing the missions of the state's three graduateintensive universities (University of Michigan, Michigan State University,
and Wayne State University). Finally, he noted that the governor had made
a very generous recommendation for capital outlay to assist the campuses in
meeting their most urgent needs. He commented that this was the most
optimistic budget outlook of the past decade, and that the presidents of all of
the state's universities would be working very hard with their representatives to insure its approval.
Regent Baker expressed his appreciation for the governor's budget
recommendation. President Duderstadt noted that the state's university
presidents intended to pursue a much more coordinated, cooperative
approach toward this year's budget negotiations than they did last year.
Comments from Vice President Harrison
Vice President Harrison commented on a new publication about the
University of Michigan, a copy of which had been distributed to the Regents.
Its intent was to capture the excitement of the University in graphics, as
opposed to words.
1996-97 Residence Halls and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Hartford observed that the proposed rate structures were
developed by two committees, one for family housing and the other for traditional residence halls. Both committees include students as well as staff
members. The proposals call for rate increases averaging 4.9 percent for
residence halls and 4.7 percent for family housing apartments.
Regent Power pointed out that each proposed increase included an
increment for debt service as well as general inflation. Mr. William Zeller,
director of housing, said that it is anticipated that the debt service increments, which cover renovations to Alice Lloyd and Couzens Halls and the
information infrastructure renewal project, would be in effect for next year,
with increases only for general inflation after that.
Regent Baker questioned how the housing staff had arrived at its 3.5
percent rate for general inflation for the residence halls, since most figures
indicate the rate as being under 3.0 percent. Mr. Zeller responded that


258




February Meeting, 1996


increases in telephone and insurance were calculated at 5.0 percent, equipment and supplies at 3.0 percent, utilities at 3.8 percent, and raw food at 2.9
percent. Regent Baker observed that they ought to be working toward
reducing the cost to students for housing and tuition and these figures go
against that goal.
Regent Newman inquired as to whether consideration had been given to
achieving cost savings through privatizing any of the services provided by the
housing division, particularly in the area of food service. Vice President
Hartford responded that this had been investigated, but that so far she had
not been impressed by the sustained quality of privatized food service.
Regent Newman stated that she believes that increases in the cost of
student housing ought to be reduced, especially increases that are higher
than the rate of inflation. She believes that one way to keep costs under
control would be to consider alternatives to rate increases, particularly in the
area of privatization of various housing services. Vice President Hartford
indicated that she would continue to explore this matter.
There being no further discussion, Regent Power moved approval of an
average rate increase of 4.9 percent for residence halls and 4.7 percent for
family housing apartments for 1996-97, according to the schedule provided in
the Regents Communication. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it
was approved, with Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, Power, and
Varner in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the December 14
ahd 15, 1995, regular meeting and the minutes from both the January 19
and January 25, 1996, special meetings.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of
investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and the
report on noncompetitive purchases over $2,000 for the period October
1-December 31, 1995. He observed that this month's agenda contains notice
of a change in ownership of an investment management organization, and
that he will continue to inform the Regents about such changes in the future.
He stated that the general policy is that if an organization loses the people
responsible for managing the University's assets, the University will change
managers.
Endowment. President Duderstadt noted that in a recent annual
listing of the value of university endowments in the Chronicle of Higher
Education, the University of Michigan had ranked second in the nation
among institutions with endowments of over $1 billion in the growth of its
endowment over the past year. He praised Executive Vice President Womack
and his team for this achievement.  Executive Vice President Womack
commented that the value of the endowment reflects the value added through
gifts and performance, minus payouts.


259




February Meeting, 1996


Report on Noncompetitive Purchases Over $2,000 for the
Period October 1-December 31, 1995. Regent Newman inquired as to
whether the proposed increase in the amount for reportable noncompetitive
purchases to $5,000, to be considered later in this meeting, was sufficiently
high. This led to a discussion of the purchasing system. Executive Vice
President Womack noted that the University had recently introduced the use
of purchasing cards which can be used to make relatively small purchases.
Other cost-savings ideas under consideration are to reduce the University's
need for inventory storage by having contracts with vendors through which
units could order supplies directly.
Research Reports. Vice President Neal submitted reports on projects
established for the months of December 1995 and January 1996 and summaries of a selection of current research and sponsored projects.
Intellectual Properties Policy. With regard to intellectual properties policies, Vice President Neal reported that the Regents' Bylaws deal with
the University's ownership of intellectual property and do not address the
implementation policy that he has been developing. Thus, although, the new
policy will not require a bylaw change, he recommends broad dissemination
of a draft of the policy so as to obtain feedback prior to the discussion at the
March meeting. Regent Newman suggested that there be a presentation
describing proposed changes in this policy prior to the Regents being asked
to adopt it. Vice President Neal stated that he intended to follow a suggestion from Regent Power that the policy be presented for adoption by the
Board in the form of a Regents Resolution.
Wiesner Symposium. Vice President Neal informed the Regents that
the University would be convening the first annual Wiesner Symposium on
February 26, 1996. The symposium honors Jerome PO Wiesner, who received
four degrees from the University of Michigan, served as president of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and played a major role in the development of national policy in the areas of science and technology.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted reports of gifts
received for the months of December 1995 and January 1996 and commented
on progress to date in the Campaign for Michigan.
AAE Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry............................................  6,000
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for research and the Immunopathology Research Fellowship and Training
Fund  in  the  Medical School...................................................... 19,220
Bonnie L. Ackley, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 5,000
James N. Adler, Los Angeles, California
78 shares of Shiva Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School.........1..................................   5,811
Aeroquip Foundation, Jackson
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 5,000
Ahmanson Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the David W. Belin Phi Beta Kappa Scholarship in the Law School................. 25,000
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for the Keith E. and Valerie J. Alessi Fund and other support in the School of
Business Administration........................................................ 15,000


260




February Meeting, 1996


Jay Alix and Associates, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 5,000
Allied Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................. 50,000
Aluminum Company of America Headquarters Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration........................................................ 15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division............... 67,036
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 171,700
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School................................................38,641
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School.............................................. 18,750
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School............................................ 46,250
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................52,500
Amersham-Searle Corporation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School.................................30,000
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical School........... 10,000
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for the Program in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering.................... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................... 35,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University  Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Classical Studies Endowed Research Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..........................................................   5,135
Anonymous Donor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health............................ 20,465
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5,833
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 25,000
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, in memory of Charles W. Attwood.................................. 6,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, for the Robert H.
Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering and for the Baldwin
Fellowship in Astronomy and the Baldwin Foundation Undergraduate Research
Opportunity Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 37,500
Thomas J. Banwell, Claremont, California
for the Loyal Crew Fund in the College of Engineering............................... 5,000
Harold S. Barron, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania
1,375 shares of RedFed Bancorp and
500 shares of MLF Bancorp common stocks
for the Harold S. Barron Scholarship in the Law School.............................. 25,078
Joseph H. Bassett, Royal Oak
for the Cary-Bassett Endowed Scholarship.......................................... 5,000
Luella C. Bassett, Royal Oak
for the Scholarship and Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering, in
memory of William  H. Cary, Jr..........................................     5,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for the Nephrology Fellows Fund in the Medical School............................... 8,000
Raymond A. Beck, Jr., Estate
for the Raymond A. and Virginia T. Beck Medical Scholarship in the Medical School...... 25,000
Everett E. Berg, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 5,000


261




February Meeting, 1996


Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School..................................... 5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
112 shares of Philip Morris common stock
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 10,136
Satnam Singh Bhugra, East Lansing
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 5,000
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust
for the Nursing Program at the University of Michigan-Flint.................... 9,875
H. Glenn Bixby, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 7,500
Herbert M. Blair III, Spring Lake
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Michele and Mitchell Bleznak Philanthropic Fund, Farmington Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................................5,000
Henry W. and Marion H. Bloch Foundation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Marion and Henry Bloch Arts Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................................... 60,000
BOC Group, Inc., Technical Center, New Providence, New Jersey
for the BOC Group Graduate Student Support Fund in the College of Engineering...... 10,000
Boehringer Mannheim Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Rockville, Maryland
for the Nicklas Video Gift Fund in the Medical School................................ 5,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Boeing Scholarships in the College of Engineering............................. 6,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the Class 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 8,500
British Telecommunications, Plc., London, England
for the Global Learning Study Fund, School of Business Administration............. 230,250
Floydene B. Brownlee Trust
for the Donald S. and Floydene Beardslee Brownlee Scholarship Loan
Fund in the School of Education, and for support in the Alumni Association............ 225,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in the School of Business Administration,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 12,844
Byk Gulden, Konstanz, Germany
for research  in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 15,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship, College of Engineering................... 5,000
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,083
CaP CURE, Beverly Hills, California
for research  in  the Medical School..............................................  100,000
Patricia H. Carver, Brighton
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the
University  M usical Society........................................................ 7,700
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship, School of Business Administration.... 10,000
Chase Manhattan Bank National Association, New York, New York
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship and other support in
the School of Business Administration, and for employee matching gifts............... 15,550
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, Concord, California
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Sciences and the Arts....... 15,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Searle Scholars Program in the Medical School............................... 30,000
Chiron Corporation, Emeryville, California
for research  in  the Medical School............................................... 10,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, and for support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 8,700
Communications Cross Cultural, Irvine, California
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund........................................ 100,000
Alfred F. Conard, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania
250 shares of T. Rowe Price New Horizons mutual fund
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School................................. 5,565


262




February Meeting, 1996


Jon A. Cyganiak, Brookfield, Wisconsin
2,000 shares of Criticare Systems common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................8,063
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School........................................... 14,922
Arthur K. Darbaker Estate
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 84,800
Dean Transportation, Inc., Lansing
for wheelchair restraints research, Transportation Research Institute.................. 5,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for the Continuing Education Fund in the School of Dentistry.................. 5,000
Roger E. DeMeritt, Reedsburg, Wisconsin
600 shares of United Wisconsin Services common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center..... 16,150
Jack Demmer Ford, Inc., Wayne
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-D earborn..............................................................  5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for employee  m atching  gifts.......................................................9,641
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 5,000
Dixon R. Doll, San Francisco, California
310 shares of Remedy Corporation and
40 shares of Picturetel Corporation common stocks
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for the Millie
Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School................................ 21,380
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 5,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for program support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural
Resources and Environment and for the Catalytic Surfaces Studies Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  261,250
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in  the School of Public Health.......................................  150,000
June Duck, Manalapan, New Jersey
for the Robert B. Sweet Memorial Fund in the Medical School......................... 7,000
Clara Dushnik Trust
for the Clara L. Dushnik-Fanny Fink Scholarship................................... 36,000
A. G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for the Mallinckrodt Award Fund in the Medical School............................. 50,000
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering............ 10,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for student aid in the School of Business Administration..............................  9,552
Robert C. Emde, Bloomfield Hills
114 shares of Home Depot common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship, School of Business Administration................. 5,094
LeRoy A. Engelhardt, Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin
100 shares of Consolidated Papers, Inc., common stock and a cash gift for the
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship and other support in the School of
Business Administration, for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for
the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund and for the University Library..................7,119
Thomas and Elaine Evans Fund of the Fidelity
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund.......................................... 10,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Minority Engineering Program and other support in the College of
Engineering, and for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration
7,000
George L. Farr, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the George L. Farr Merit Scholarship, School of Business Administration............. 10,000
Russell H. Fifield Living Trust, Ann Arbor
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center.................................................. 5,000
Sonja and Conrad Fischer Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for the F. Conrad Fischer Fund, School of Business Administration.................... 8,000
First Michigan Bank Corporation, Greenville
for the Stanley S. Kemp Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology...............  5,000


263




February Meeting, 1996


W. R. Flannery, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 7,500
Sidney Forbes, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics................... 5,000
Benson Ford, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 5,000
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 5,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 20,000
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn.....40,000
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 20,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for the American Culture Program and the Women's Study Program in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for research in the School of Social Work, and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................. 219,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, for research and other
support in the College of Engineering, and for the Harmonize for Hope Fund in
the  M edical School............................................................. 73,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, and for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 35,000
Lawrence C. Frank, Yakima, Washington
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,700
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the School of Education, and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial
Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 10,005
Arthur M. Friedman, Palos Verdes Estates, California
150 shares of Cincinnati Financial Corporation common stock
for the Arthur Andersen Faculty Fellowship in the School of Business Administration......9,863
Otto B. Gago, Ann Arbor
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship.................................. 6,313
Wood M. Geist, Washington
for support in the Schools of Arts and Education, and for the
Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 7,000
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the School of Public Health.......................................... 8,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth and Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................  45,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute and for
the Ann Arbor Flower Show, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 16,000
Gerber Companies Foundation, Fremont
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development...................... 25,000
Martin R. Goldman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 10,000
Government of Canada, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,262
Grand Rapids Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research  in the School of Social Work.......................................... 20,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts....................................................................... 33,144
Evelyn G. Hart Estate
for support in  the School of Music................................................ 65,000
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hays Scholarships in the Medical School........................... 17,500
William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................50,000
Vira I. Heinz Endowment, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the School of Education............................................ 50,000


264




February Meeting, 1996


Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for research  in  the Medical School..............................................  100,000
Francis E. Heydt & Sons, Miami, Oklahoma
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics................................6,000
Jack D. Highfield, Grand Rapids
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, for support in
the College of Pharmacy, and for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.................. 7,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowship in the Medical School.............. 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School.................... 128,500
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for rear view mirror research in the Transportation Research Institute............... 35,000
Ralph J. Isackson, Bay City
250 shares of NationsBank Corporation common stock
for the Biller Law Student Scholarship in the Law School............................ 18,297
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry............... 10,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........7,500
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee  m atching  gifts......................................................   14,355
Marion L. Johnson Estate
for the Marion L. Johnson Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the Law School...................................................... 300,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the research in the School of Public Health, and for the Survey Research
Center in  the Institute for Social Research......................................... 29,580
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.......................................... 110,829
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 46,906
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Juan Tienda Scholarship in the Law School.................................. 10,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 5,120
John G. Kirk, Santa Barbara, California
for the John G. Kirk Fund in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 7,000
Kirkland & Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School, and for
employee  m atching  gifts.......................................................  150,550
Robert I. Kleinberg, New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................  10,000
Edward S. Klotz, Hollywood, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 26,000
William C. Knicely Estate
for the William C. Knicely Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music.............. 61,800
Kraft General Foods, Inc., Glenview, Illinois
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 35,000
Leonard J. Kujawa, Atlanta, Georgia
130 shares of St. Jude Medical, Inc., common stock
for the Leonard J. Kujawa/Arthur Andersen LLP Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration................................................. 5,151
Katherine Kutsche, Trenton
for the Kutsche Memorial Chair in Internal Medicine in the Medical School........... 5,000
Edwin A. and Alma Lakin Philanthropic Fund, Reading, Pennsylvania
for the Edwin and Alma Lakin Orthopedic Research Fund in the Medical School........ 50,000
Sallie Faster Larson, Ann Arbor
for the John L. Kemink Professorship in the Medical School and for the Hill
Auditorium   Restoration  Fund.................................................... 15,000
Thomas R. Larson, Ann Arbor
for the John L. Kemink Professorship in the Medical School and for the Hill
Auditorium   Restoration  Fund.................................................... 15,000


265




February Meeting, 1996


Genevieve Latulip Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 159,027
John W. Lawrence, Richland
for the Teaching Excellence Fund in the School of Business
A dm inistration........................................................... 5,000
Morton Q. Levin, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Law Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School, and for the
Sumner and Laura Foster Library Acquisitions Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts.................................................. 7,000
Jacqueline H. Lewis, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and for the University Musical Society........ 5,100
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, DC
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School............................... 16,000
Christopher U. Light, Kalamazoo
279 shares of Philip Morris common stock
for the Music Library in the School of Music.................................. 25,250
Lilly Endowment, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research  in the School of Education............................................23,994
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration....................................................15,000
Anna Suk-Fong Lok, Ann Arbor
for the Liver Research Fund in the Medical School.................................. 13,700
William T. Ludolph Estate
for the William T. Ludolph Junior Faculty Development Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 47,724
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 10,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Lyons Equipment Company, Ypsilanti
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 5,000
Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation, New York, New York
for the Josiah Macy, Jr., Professorship of Medical Education in the
M edical School..............................................................  2,000,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 33,333
Donald H. Malloure, Beverly Hills
1,000 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for support in  the M edical School................................................. 58,813
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Memorial Scholarship in the Alumni Association............... 5,000
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School..............................................40,000
Mark IV Industries Foundation, Inc., Amherst, New York
for the Mark IV Foundation Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 20,000
Frederick C. Matthaei, Jr., Birmingham
131 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 10,095
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music.................... 10,000
Margaret A. McKinley, Holland
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
McLaren Regional Medical Center, Flint
for the Max Ronald Burnell Resident Fellowship in the Medical School................81,000
McNamara Charity Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the McNamara Charity Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 5,000
Medtronic, Inc., Corporate Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School............................. 25,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research in
the Institute for Social Research............................................... 165,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Fellows in Pharmaceutics Fund in the College of Pharmacy............. 60,000


266




February Meeting, 1996


Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry...................... 25,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School........................ 10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 29,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Real-Time Computing Laboratory in the College of Engineering................ 50,000
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for the Monroe Street Journal Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 10,000
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research in the Medical School............................................... 37,500
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies and for the Clements Library, and the Museum of Art...............20,918
John D. Moss, Peekskill, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics....1.................  10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts........................................................................   142,421
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Township
for support in the School of Art....................................10,000
William D. Myers, Bloomfield Township
for support in  the M edical School................................................. 10,000
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
for the Research in Periodontics Fund in the School of Dentistry..................... 20,000
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 10,417
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School................. 20,000
Robert D. Neary, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 90,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
750 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 31,781
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for the Crystallography Facility in the Biophysics Research Division.................. 20,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................ 24,566
Marion E. Paine Estate
for the Willmarth R. and Marion E. Paine Scholarship in the School of Dentistry...... 600,000
Marion Palmer, Grand Rapids
814 shares of the Mutual Series Fund, Inc., mutual fund
for the Lloyd L. Kempe Scholarship in Chemical Engineering, College
of Engineering................................................................. 80,000
William B. Palmer, Ann Arbor
366 shares of First Union common stock
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art................................ 20,153
Richard H. Pao, Ann Arbor
800 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Professor Miranda Lee Pao Memorial Fund in the School of Information
and Library Studies, and for the Tien Award for Excellence in the College of
Engineering..................................................................  53,350
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................... 88,952
Donald R. Parfet, Richland
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 5,000
Mary Jo Brooks Peters, Ann Arbor
120 shares of Duke Power common stock
for the C. Wilbur Peters Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Marching Band Fund and
other support in the School of Music and for Camp Michigania........................ 5,580
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the Upjohn Company Scholarship in the School of Public Health................... 25,000
Laurence J. Pons, Scottsdale, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 15,000


267




February Meeting, 1996


Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
324 shares of Nucor common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the William Davidson Professorship of Business
in the School of Business Administration....................................... 16,301
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.......................................................................   10,000
Ahmad Rahbar, Wheeling, West Virginia
for support in  the Medical School................................................   5,000
Leonard Rand Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 7,500
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
225 shares of Watkins-Johnson common stock and a cash gift
for the History of Art Special Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and for ophthalmology support in the Medical School....................... 10,470
Research Corporation Operating Account, Tucson, Arizona
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 27,000
Ricardo North American, Inc., Burr Ridge, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................60,000
Ridgefield Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School....................................................10,000
Oren L. Robertson Trust, Farmington Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of James D. and Emma Robertson..... 5,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts....................................................................... 25,300
J. Speed Rogers, Brevard, North Carolina
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School.............. 5,000
Irwin Roth, New York, New York
1,000 shares of Network General Corporation common stock
for support of the Law   School.................................................... 41,313
Jack Roth, Malibu, California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......................... 10,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration................................................... 15,000
Theodore Sachs, West Bloomfield
146 shares of First Interstate Bancorp common stock
for endowment support in the Law  School......................................... 20,248
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health, and for the Research Center
for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research... 62,700
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for support of the First Annual University of Michigan Psychiatry Colloquium in
the  M edical School..............................................................10,000
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School................................. 10,000
Helen L. Schmutz Estate
for neurology research in the Medical School....................................... 31,585
Douglas R. Schrank, Pepper Pike, Ohio
100 shares of General Electric common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................. 6,900
Stanley S. Schwartz, Franklin
for the Stanley S. Schwartz Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School.............. 20,000
Seoam Scholarship Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Korean Studies Program Development Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.................................................   25,000
Dennis G. Severance, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Chrysler Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,231
Violet Sharpe Estate
for the School of Engineering Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 11,300
David T. Shelby, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000


268




February Meeting, 1996


Jack H. Shuler, Naples, Florida
100 shares of Ameritech Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the College of Engineering,
and the Law School................................................... 5,308
Simba Information, Inc., Wilton, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,000
Bruce H. Simpson Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 5,000
Gordon H. Sindecuse Estate
for the Sindecuse Dental Museum in the School of Dentistry.................... 379,368
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
140 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 9,266
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund and
other upport in the Medical School...............................................30,750
SmithKline Beecham International, Singapore
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School.................................. 5,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 100,000
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for the George E., Jr. and Elizabeth S. Sperling Fund in the Law School............... 7,500
Lodge D. Staubach Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................ 1,400,000
Christopher J. Steffen, Greenwich, Connecticut
350 shares of Microsoft common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 30,319
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the Colleges
of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 27,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 10,000
Charlotte B. Sundelson Trust
for research in the Medical School, and for the Geriatrics Center....................... 6,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School.................................... 8,625
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and for the Teaching Excellence
Fund and other support in the School of Business Administration...................... 7,500
Syndeco, Inc., Detroit
for the Habitat for Humanity Program in the School of Business Administration......... 7,738
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College of Engineering....... 8,800
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the College
of Engineering..................................................................5,000
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Joel L. Tonkin, Leawood, Kansas
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Toshiba Corporation, Kanagawa, Japan
for electrical and computer engineering support in the College of
E ngineering................................................................... 15,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and
for employee matching gifts....................................................  105,500
Trico Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration.........................................................   5,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and  for employee matching gifts.................................................. 15,120
L. Vad Technology, Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................... 9,000


269




February Meeting, 1996


George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology.................................. 5,000
Eleanor M. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for support in  the School of Education.............................................  5,000
Michael A. Wainstock, Bloomfield Hills
for the Dr. Michael and Lee Wainstock Educational Fund in the Medical School........ 25,000
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.........................11,032
Herbert S. Wander, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Judaic Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 5,000
Robert M. Warner, Mamaroneck, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Fitness Research Center in the Division of Kinesiology, for research and the
G. Robert Greenberg Symposium in the Medical School, and for the Warner-Lambert Distinguished
Lectureship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 110,760
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Dentistry and Nursing, the University
Hospitals, and the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 7,970
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Frankena and Stevenson Prize Fund and other support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 45,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................. 5,000
Kenneth Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
360 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 10,373
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration...................................................... 15,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the School of Dentistry, the College of Engineering, and
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................... 383,960
Thomas S. Wilson, Rochester Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration........ 5,000
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for scholarships in the School of Information and Library Studies..................... 10,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the APPAM/Sloan Fellowship in the School of Public Policy....................... 54,000
Kurt J. Wolff, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School.....................................................   5,000
J. Reimer Wolter, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................... 10,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint..................................... 17,000
Irma M. Wyman, St. Paul, Minnesota
105 shares of Honeywell, Inc., common stock
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women............ 5,040
Xerox Corporation, Webster, New York
for the Fluidics Research Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 10,000
Yamanouchi U.S.A., Inc., White Plains, New York
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in
the  M edical School.............................................................. 20,000
Zatkoff Seals & Packings, Farmington
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 10,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 25,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Professorship in the College of Engineering................. 600,000
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Cardiac Anesthesiology Research Gift Fund in the Medical School.............. 10,000
Roy H. Ziegler Trust
for the Roy H. and Helen Ziegler Scholarship in the College of Engineering............ 10,000
William E. Zimmie Trust
for the Benford-Zimmie Scholarships in the College of Engineering................ 129,040


270




February Meeting, 1996


Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for
the Public Health Merit Scholarship in the School of Public Health, for support in
the College of Pharmacy, and the Schools of Medicine and Nursing and for
em ployee  m atching  gifts.....................................................  $  25,300
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
James N. Adler, Los Angeles, California
900 shares of Komag, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School...................................................42,300
Richard B. Ainsworth, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School of
Business Administration............................................. 5,000
Akzo Nobel, West Orange, New Jersey
for support in the College of Pharmacy............................................ 21,500
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
400 shares of Ladd Furniture, Inc., common stock;
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.................................................. 5,350
American Academy of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery
Foundation, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in  the Medical School................................................ 20,000
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute................ 395,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.................................................6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Colleges of Pharmacy and
Literature,Science, and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division................ 66,620
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 31,825
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 12,500
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 19,997
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.................................................................  132,363
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School...............................................14,986
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School................................................10,000
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering........................................... 7,000
Anika and Associates, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Autism Program in the Institute for Human Adjustment, Horace
H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies........................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
110 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock;
for the Donald W. Tinkle Memorial Scholarship and the Frank E. Ammerman
Zoology Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 5,594
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the School of Education.............................................. 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Helmut Stern Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for support in the College of Engineering, the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and the Museum of Art............... 95,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School......... 25,000
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for scholarships and the Swimming and Diving Fund in the Department
of Athletics, and for the Civil Engineering Alumni Friends Association
Fellowship and other support in the College of Engineering........................... 8,100
John M. Armstrong, Ann Arbor
for the Center for Russian and East European Studies Endowment in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000


271




February Meeting, 1996


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the  Medical School............................................... 66,000
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for the Regional Chemotherapy Research Gift Fund in the Medical School........... 150,000
Asset Investment Management, Grand Rapids
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund........................................... 5,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for mechanical engineering and applied mechanics support in the College
of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts.................................... 13,371
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Kathryn Strimbu Memorial Fund....................................   5,000
Daniel R. Balbach, Ann Arbor
317 shares of Somatogen, Inc., common stock and a cash gift;
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic in the School of Dentistry, and for the
University Musical Society....................................................... 5,053
Louis G. Baldacci, Atherton, California
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics................ 5,000
Joseph C. Bancroft Educational and Charitable Foundation, McComb, Missouri;
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...................................................... 20,000
Fleming A. Barbour, Flint
318 shares of Citizens Banking Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School, and for WFUM/TV..... 9,998
Norman E. Barnett, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Norman E. and Mary E. Barnett Funds in the School of Music and
the Colleges of Architecture and Urban Planning and Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for support in the Schools of Medicine and Music.................... 35,325
BASF Wyandotte Corporation, Wyandotte
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering....................... 10,000
Peggy Bauervic Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Peggy Bauervic Foundation Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......... 12,500
Bayer Corporation, West Haven, Connecticut
for the Robert Fekety, M.D., Lectureship Fund, the Michigan Prostate Institute
Research and Education Fund, and the 1996 Lecture Fund in the Medical School........ 6,500
Marion Bellairs, Flint
Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 20,000
Alice M. Bender, Kalamazoo
for the Scholarship and Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering,
in  memory  of William   H. Cary, Jr................................................. 5,000
Gordon A. Berenson, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 6,000
Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Omaha, Nebraska
161 shares of General Dynamics Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for unrestricted
support of the University of of Michigan............................................ 9,761
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack and Barbara Berman Merit Scholarship in the Medical School......... 6,000
Philip C. and Sara D. Berry, Moreland Hills, Ohio
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, for the Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship
in the School of Dentistry, for support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, for the H. A. and B. W. Kenyon Fund in the University
Library and for the University of Michigan Club of Cleveland Scholarship.............. 5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
298 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Medical School, for support in the School Music, and
for the Clements Library....................................................... 16,010
Sanjoy Bhattacharya, Chicago, Illinois
477 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for the S. Bhattacharya Mamata Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 24,776
Brian L. Bilzin, Miami, Florida
60 shares of Philip Morris Company common stock
for the Bilzin Student Travel Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................   5,428


272




February Meeting, 1996


Florence E. Bingham Trust
for the Florence E. Bingham Fund in the Medical School............................17,608
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
140 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for gifts pending  designation.....................................................10,194
Russell S. Bishop III, Incline Village, Nevada
400 shares of Ameribank Federal Savings Bank common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................26,800
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund......................................... 63,000
Carol Bowling, Ann Arbor
for the Scholarship and Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering,
in memory of William H. Cary, Jr................................................. 5,000
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for Judaic Studies support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 25,000
Paul S. Brentlinger, Cleveland, Ohio
3,500 shares of Verifone, Inc., common stock
for the Paul S. Brentlinger Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the School
of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 103,250
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for employee  matching  gifts..................................................... 13,172
Ann and Eric V. Brown, Sr., Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School......................... 10,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for golf course restoration and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the
Department of Athletics, and for the Robert W. and Lynn H. Browne
Professorship in Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 427,813
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
for the Begole, Brownell, Schneider, Kahn Fund in the Medical School.................. 5,000
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Public Health Merit Scholarship in the School of Public Health................ 17,500
Bugas Fund, Dearborn
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 25,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
210 shares of General Electric common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support of the Law School...... 14,753
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for the University Musical Society................. 5,000
Alfred H. Burwitz Trust, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................ 8,625
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
School of Business Administration................................................. 6,500
Paul B. Campbell, Cleveland, Ohio
150 shares of Chemical Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law........................ 5,925
Jean W. Campbell Trust
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund in the Center for the Education
of Women, and for the University Musical Society................................... 5,200
David L. Chambers, White River, Vermont
80 shares of Pepisco, Inc., and nine shares of TRW common stock
for gifts pending  designation...................................................... 5,327
David G. Chardavoyne, Farmington Hills
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the William Revelli Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music.............. 5,250
Kathleen G. Charla, Bloomfield Hills
for the Graduate Research Internships and Fellowships Fund in the Center for
Russian and East European Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 5,000
Mrs. Jaswinder K. Chattha, Weirton, West Virginia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 25,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Minority Engineering Program and other support in the College of
Engineering, and for employee matching gifts...................................... 11,350
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 30,000


273




February Meeting, 1996


Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Summer Projects Fund in
the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering, and
for employee matching gifts............................................... 39,132
Clarcor Foundation, Rockford, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School.....................................................5,000
C & M Recycling, Inc., North Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School...... 10,000
Consolidated Rail Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for minority fellowships in the School of Public Policy...............................15,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.............................................22,901
Alice S. and Allen F. Corey Trust
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts..........................................................8,000
Alice Berle Crawford, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of
Women, for support in the School of Music and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts for special exhibitions support in the Museum of
Art, and for the University Musical Society......................................... 8,250
Dewey B. Crawford, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Law School......................................... 5,000
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Stadium Brick Project Fund in
the Department of Athletics, for support in the School of Music and the
College of Pharmacy and for the University Musical Society........................... 6,100
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
200 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company and
100 shares of International Business Machines common stocks
for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering...................................... 23,375
Current Medical Directions, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 5,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 5,000
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
900 shares of Somatogen, Inc., common stock
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics, for the Office for the
Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of Business Administration,
and for support in the School of Education......................................... 13,838
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research and the Kresge Hearing Research Institute in the Medical
School.......................................................................... 15,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics............................... 10,000
Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................... 30,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................. 66,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Wyandotte
for scholarships in  the Alumni Association.......................................... 7,450
Detroit Diesel Corporation, Detroit
for instructional support in the College of Engineering............................... 9,000
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for the Detroit Free Press Dean's Merit Scholarship and the Minority
Workshop Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 25,000
Peter F. de Vaux, Verona, Virginia
350 shares of Walgreen common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,172
Diabetes Discovery Group, Novo Alle Bagsvaerd, Denmark
for biological chemistry research in the Medical School............................. 15,000
A. Richard Diebold, Jr., Tucson, Arizona
for the Middle English Dictionary Gift Support Fund................................ 10,000
Daniel L. Dierdorf, St. Louis, Missouri
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 5,000


274




February Meeting, 1996


J. Robert Dobbins, Dallas, Texas
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of
Business Adm inistration......................................................... 5,000
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
3,700 shares of Vanguard Index Small Capital Fund mutual fund and
1,500 shares of Pasadena Growth Fund common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 97,175
Jean W. Dorsett-Robinson, Isle of Palms, South Carolina
for support in the School of Public Health........................................ 10,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for the Catalytic Surfaces Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..................................................................  11,250
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for employee matching gifts.................................................   5,323
Caroline M. Duesberry Estate
for the Caroline M. Duesberry Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 34,086
Mark F. Duffy, Burr Ridge, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics..........................................5,000
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of various corporate common stocks and a cash gift
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Connie R. Dunlap Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the University  Library................................................. 95,350
Morris D. Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the
College of Engineering, and for scholarships and other support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 11,700
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 15,000
Virginia J. Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida
for the Virginia J. Ehrlicher Fellowship in the School of Information and
Library Studies, and for the Clements Library...................................... 51,000
John D. Evans, Middleburg, Virginia
2,600 shares of SBC Communications common stock
for the John  D. Evans Fund....................................................  150,963
John M. Evans, Northville
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn..............................................................   5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts............. 10,100
Federal Express, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Curt Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 5,000
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana
for golf course restoration, scholarships and the Men's Basketball Fund in
the Department of Athletics, for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt
Research Professorship in the Law School, and for support in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................ 9,950
E. Ann Finlayson, New York, New York
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration, and for chemistry support and the Honors
Programin the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Robert M. Finlayson, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 10,000
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Replacement
H ospital Project Fund...........................................................26,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for  support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Nathan M. Forbes, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
Eleanor and Edsel Ford Fund, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 25,000


275




February Meeting, 1996


Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 20,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Russian and East European Studies, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for gifts pending designation..............  255,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration, for the Program in Manufacturing and other
support in the College of Engineering, and for the University Musical Society........... 66,609
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, for
the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for the University Musical Society and
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................  151,812
Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Fund and the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................ 35,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research and the Parker B. Francis Fellowship in the Medical School e.............. 35,909
Bruce Frankel Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 8,600
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
91 shares of Atlantic Richfield common stock
for the All-State Scholarship, the Larry Teal Scholarship in Saxophone and
other support in the School of Music, for support of the Law School, and for
the  University  M usical Society................................................... 10,101
Donna K. Fry-Welch, Flint
for minority scholarships at the University of Michigan-Flint.......................... 5,000
Robert W. Galvin Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for research  support and equipment............................................... 50,000
Stanley Garn, Ann Arbor
10 shares of E. F. Hutton National Series and
seven shares of E. F. Hutton Select Trust investment units
for gifts pending  designation...................................................... 7,842
Charles Gelman, Ann Arbor
250 shares of Gelman Sciences, Inc., common stock
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................... 5,906
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................... 8,000
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................................. 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Burn Development
Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.............................. 138,900
GHS Corporation, Battle Creek
for the Shirley and Robert McFee Guitar Fund and the Marching Band Fund in
the School of Music, and for support in the Schools of Business Administration
and Law, and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 12,500
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for  support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for support in  the Medical School............................................... 5,000
Thomas A. Goss, Oakland, California
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Thomas M. Graber, Evanston, Illinois
2,236 shares of Bellsouth Dividend Reinvestment Fund
for the Thomas M. Graber Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
School of D entistry............................................................. 92,943
Grand Rapids Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in  the School of Social Work......................................... 77,449
Granite Rock Company, Watsonville, California
for the Curt Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 8,000
Eugene M. Grant and Company, New York, New York
for the NEH Challenge Grant Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment
in the University Library....................................................... 20,833


276




February Meeting, 1996


Greenfield Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Department of
Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School....................................... 9,050
Charles B. Greening, West Bloomfield
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 8,000
Dorothy Greenwald Trust
for the Greenwald Law Student Aid Fund in the Law School, and for the
Dorothy Greenwald Scholarship in the School of Music.............................. 92,435
Greenwall Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 28,350
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Kalvin and Eileen Grove Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............ 20,000
Carroll J. Haas, Mendon
3,412 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for gifts pending  designation...................................................  200,405
Joseph F. Haas, Atlanta, Georgia
820 shares of Premier Industrial common stock and a cash gift
for the Geismer-Haas Reinach Dean's Merit Scholarship and other support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................20,698
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Library...................... 5,000
George Hammond Family Trust
1,435 shares of various corporate common stocks and
10,000 Massachusetts Municipal Bonds
for the George Hammond, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School.................... 90,600
John T. Hammond, Kenosha, Wisconsin
for the Claire Sliney Memorial Fund in the School of Education...................... 20,000
Steven K. Hamp, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund, and for the Clements Library.......... 6,000
Handelshogskolan, Stockholm, Sweden
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business Administration..... 41,493
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
for support in  the Department of Athletics.......................................... 5,000
Arlene D. Harris, Flint
300 shares of D&N Financial Corporation and
200 shares of Bio-Met common stocks
for the Student Aid Fund in the Medical School................................... 7,269
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Scholarship in Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.............................................................  5,000
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
18 shares of Harris Family Investment Company common stock
for the NEH Challenge Grant Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for support of the Law School.................................... 10,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
100 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................. 9,800
John B. Hazelworth, Winter Haven, Florida
100 shares of Philip Morris Companies common stock and a cash gift
for the John and Barbara Hazelworth Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 10,306
Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering Program
in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................... 8,000
David B. Hermelin, Southfield
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for the State of
Israel Bonds  Fund............................................................... 5,250
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the Center for Population Planning, School of Public Health............ 40,000
F. Hoffman-LaRoche AG, Basel Switzerland
for research  in  the Medical School..............................................  235,155
Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and for the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 25,100


277




February Meeting, 1996


James C. Holmes, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the Retinal and Macular Dystrophy Center in the Medical School................... 8,175
Jon R. Holt, Minnetrista, Minnesota
for the Industrial Engineering Special Gift Fund, College of Engineering.............. 8,500
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School.....................................................6,000
Mary I. Hunting, Grand Rapids
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and the Michigan League Development Fund... 10,000
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Romulus
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Center for Heritage Landscaping
Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 7,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 40,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering.........................   30,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.....................................12,150
International Foundation for Ethical Research, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................ 23,600
Marguerite Iskenderian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Haig P. Iskenderian Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering...... 20,000
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art................................. 5,000
Marc Jacobson, Norfolk, Virginia
for the Marc and Constance Jacobson Lectureship Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 16,000
Thomas H. Jeffs, II, Grosse Pointe Farms
400 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 16,600
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School........................... 25,000
Garrett B. Johnson, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School............................ 10,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions
Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and for employee matching gifts.............. 15,400
Robert Wood Johnson, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in the School of Public Health......................................... 37,201
Ray Warner Judson, Pasadena, California
for the Ray W. and Mary Lou Judson Scholarship in the College of Engineering......... 20,000
K1 Spring & Stamping Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts............................................................. 6,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the Benny Friedman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.................... 7,500
Richard Katcher, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Varsity Tennis Complex, the Tom Harmon Scholarship and other
support in the Department of Athletics and for the Richard and Shirley R.
Katcher Family Scholarship and other support in the Law School..................... 18,260
M. David Keil, Hinsdale, Illinois
320 shares of Dun & Bradstreet common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 20,370
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Kellogg Child Welfare Law Institute in the Law School, and for
research  in  the School of Public Health..........................................  889,022
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 10,000
David F. Keren, Ann Arbor
3,000 shares of Network Express common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 14,813
C. Robert Kidder, Columbus, Ohio
5,000 shares of Duracell common stock
for the C. Robert and Mary Kidder Endowed Scholarships in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 254,688


278




February Meeting, 1996


Robert P. Kirby, Augusta, Georgia
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment......................5,000
Barbara M. Kitzner, Allen Park
for the Environmental Study Area Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........5,000
Koepfgen Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for student aid and other support in the School of Business Administration.............8,000
Marlene Koivunen, Livonia
for the DeWeese Educational Endowment in the Medical School....................... 5,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for support of the Law School........................................... 10,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 149,794
Sylvia M. Kosciolek, Grand Blanc
for support in the Medical School......................................... 5,000
C. Douglas Kranwinkle, New York, New York
for the William W. Bishop, Jr., Research Professorship and other support in
the  Law   School.................................................................25,000
Louis A. Kubicek Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 10,000
Bernard J. LaCroute, Saratoga, California
915 shares of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for the Helfman Literary
Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 12,924
Dorothy Lahey, Plymouth
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5,000
John R. Laird, Ann Arbor
430 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund............................. 12,981
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 20,000
Lynn A. Leedy, Bellvue, Colorado
for the R. Timothy Leedy Scholarship, School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Suzanne R. Lehmann, New York, New York
325 shares of Microsoft common stock
for gifts pending  designation..................................................... 28,559
Judith C. Leondar Trust
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Endowment Funds in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts....................................................  10,000
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
for support of the Law School, and for the Humanities Institute in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 6,500
Michael J. Levitt, Englewood, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law, and for the
Rollicking Crew Endowed Scholarship.............................................10,760
Lillian Levy Trust
for the Norman Levy Research Fund in the Medical School........................... 9,800
Kirk J. Lewis, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 8,000
Edmonts G. Linamegi Estate
for kidney research in the Medical School........................................... 6,781
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the Medical School......... 32,000
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for support in the School of Business Administration......... 9,100
Winfield H. and Grace Song Line Trusts
for the Winfield H. and Grace Song Line Fund in the School of Public Health......... 800,855
Jeffrey Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Jeffrey and Susan Liss Scholarship in the Law School, and for the Jeffrey
and Susan Liss Travel Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 5,000
Loews Foundation, New York, New York
for the Replacement Hospital Project Fund........................................ 12,500
Long-Lewis Ford, Bessemer, Alabama
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 10,000
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 5,000


279




February Meeting, 1996


Ann Lurie Revocable Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
John W. Madigan, Chicago, Illinois
1,700 shares of Tribune Company common stock
for the Holly and John Madigan Endowed Scholarship and other support in
the School of Business Administration..........................................  104,231
James N. Malina, Pennington, New Jersey
800 shares of General Electric and 450 shares of International Business
Machines common stocks, and a cash gift
for the James N. and Dorothea Malina Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering............................................  100,000
Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Geriatrics Center.................... 500,000
Richard H. May, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School..................................           5,000
Olivia P. Maynard, Goodrich
600 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for the Olivia P. Maynard and S. Olof Karlstrom Donor Pooled Income
Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the Schools of Law and Social Work.................. 49,825
MBNA America Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware
for the Alumni Association Scholarship..................................... 5,000
Kenneth B. McConnell, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School................................ 25,000
Robert E. McFarland, Orchard Lake
for support of the Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Joanne T. Meagher, Ypsilanti
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.................................................. 6,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Fred Meijer Fellowship in Creative Writing, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 50,000
Mellor Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
488 shares of General Dynamics common stock
for the James R. and Suzanne S. Mellor Faculty Support Fund in the
College  of Engineering.......................................................... 29,158
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for support in  the  M edical School.................................................. 5,000
Helen L. Metzner, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women............ 5,000
Arthur A. Miller, Roxbury, Connecticut
for the Arthur Miller Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the   A rts................................................................... 25,000
Milliken & Company, Spartanburg, South Carolina
for the Curt W. Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for research  in  the School of Nursing.............................................. 25,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 14,500
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and for the
Clem ents  Library................................................................ 6,000
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles N. and Minnie L. Morrison Scholarship............................... 5,569
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
200 shares of Digital Equipment common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert A. Baumgartner Football Scholarship in the Department of
Athletics, and for support in the School of Business Administration................... 14,938
R. Stan Mortenson, McLean, Virginia
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 7,500
John S. Munn, Clark, Colorado
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................................  35,000
Alberto A. Munoz II, McAllen, Texas
for the Alberto A. Munoz II and Sharon Munoz Fund in the Law School............. 100,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 52,203
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.................................................6,250


280




February Meeting, 1996


National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 10,517
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...........................................5,000
Gregor N. Neff, Dobbs Ferry, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship in the Law School...............................25,000
Henry H. Newlin, Tecumseh
for the Henry and Nancy Newlin Women's Basketball Scholarship in the
Department of Athletics............ e10,000
Andrea Fischer Newman, Ann Arbor
for the Andrea Fischer Newman Fund.............................................10,000
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for endowment support in the School of Business Administration.................. 1,500,000
Nokomis Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Center for the Education of Women.............................. 15,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School.....................................................  5,000
NYX, Inc., Livonia
for Sikh Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 6,500
Oakland Investment Company, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Institute for Human Adjustment, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies...............................................   5,000
Alan J. Olson, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
287 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 25,148
William P. O'Neil, Washington, DC
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Graham A. Orley, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 10,000
Thomas W. Ostrander, New York, New York
for endowment support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 11,500
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies............................................................... 15,000
William M. Packer, Orchard Lake
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 10,000
Ann V. Parfet, Richland
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women.......... 5,000
Randolph C. Paschke, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, and for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship
and other support in the School of Business Administration........................... 5,000
Beatrice Paul, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration.................. 10,000
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Olga E. Petters Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 14,202
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies..............................................................  10,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in  the College of Pharmacy............................................ 20,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the Medical School................................................  12,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the MFM Educational Fund in the Medical School, and for the
Comprehensive  Cancer Center.................................................... 9,000
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................. 7,500
Ronald L. Piasecki, Spring Lake
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 20,000
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, New York, New York
for the Residential College Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 10,000


281




February Meeting, 1996


Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Plough Pharmacy Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy..................... 45,000
Hughes and Sheila Potiker Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of
Women, and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 83,275
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the support in the Institute for Human Adjustment, and for the D'Arms
Award in the Humanities, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............10,600
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for support of the Law School..................................................... 5,000
Roy F. Proffitt, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
3,063 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Roy F. and Jean H. Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School........ 182,383
John A. Pursley, Belleview, Florida
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the  College of Engineering.............................................. 10,000
Raymond R. Reilly, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium   Restoration Fund........................................... 5,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Foundation Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 5,231
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Kresge Hearing Research  Institute.......................................... 6,250
Rhone-Poulenc, Inc., Cranbury, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Adm inistration....................................................... 15,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 50,000
Robert B. and Pearl P. Richardson Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 23,915
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
375 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 23,906
Thomas B. Ridgley, Columbus, Ohio
325 shares of Worthington Industries common stock
for support of the Law  School....................................................  6,439
Richard H. Rogel, Southfield
8,728 shares of American Mutual Fund
for support of the Campaign for Michigan........................................  209,998
Lois R. Ross, Naples, Florida
for support in the College of Arts and Sciences, and for the Coleman and
Lois Ross Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint............................ 50,000
Jeffrey R. Roth, West Bloomfield
for the building fund and other support in the Division of Kinesiology.................. 6,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Kettering, Ohio
4,878 shares of PPG Industries common stock and a cash gift
for the Dr. Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Unitrust Fund and other support in
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  224,144
Marshall V. Rozzi, Chicago, Illinois
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health........................ 5,000
Richard V. Sandler, Los Angeles, California
780 shares of Fruit of the Loom common stock and a cash gift
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and for gifts
pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.................................. 22,061
Richard N. Sarns, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Education, for the
Fitness Research Center in the Division of Kinesiology, for the University
Musical Society and for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............. 5,500
Schering-Plough Foundation, Madison, New Jersey
for the Schering-Plough Educational Fund and the Plough Pharmacy
Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy, and for employee matching gifts............ 145,350
Milton J. Schloss, Cincinnati, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................ 10,000
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College of
Engineering.................................................................... 6,000


282




February Meeting, 1996


Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the Begole, Brownell, Schneider, Kahn Fund in the Medical School,
and for the Kelsey Museum  of Archaeology......................................... 5,250
Schneider National, Inc., Greenbay, Wisconsin
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration........................................................ 11,250
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 8,220
Nellie G. Scott Marital Trust
for the Graduate Financial Aid Fund in the School of Nursing......................... 20,700
Searle Family Trust, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy....................... 100,000
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 10,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music................................ 15,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for the Michigan Neighborhood Americorp Program................................ 33,000
Alene Smith, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, in memory of Allan F. Smith
and for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics................. 5,100
Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio
100 shares of Microsoft and
91 shares of Intel Corporation common stocks
and a cash gift for the Charles L. and Kathleen Smith Endowment in the
Medical School, and for the University Library.....................................14,408
Nelson L. Smith, Escanaba
339 shares of Mutual Qualified Fund mutual fund
for the Nelson L. Smith Award Fund in the School of Dentistry, and for
the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................11,000
Richard C. Sneed, Cleveland, Ohio
100 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School.....................................................  7,550
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education............................................ 12,000
SPX Foundation, Muskegon
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering, and for the
Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry...................20,500
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public Health, and
for employee matching gifts......................................................30,075
Lodge D. Staubach Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 340,000
William M. Stein, Jr., Highland Park, New Jersey
for support in  the School of Public Policy...........................................5,000
Cam G. Stewart, West Peabody, Massachusetts
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics....................5,000
Stuart Foundations, San Francisco, California
for employee m atching  gifts.......................................................5,000
Helen K. Summers Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................5,000
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................10,000
Tandy Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........7,334
Tanner Lecture Trust, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Philosophy Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and   the  Arts............................................................50,000
Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders Women's Basketball
Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................................20,000
W. David Tarver, Little Silver, New Jersey
926 shares of HBO & Company common stock
for the Fred and Louise Tarver Fund in the College of Engineering...................73,386
Texas Instruments, Inc., Lewisville, Texas
for the Curt W. Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000


283




February Meeting, 1996


Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................   6,110
Ileane and Bruce E. Thai Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the American Culture Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 12,000
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law  School................................................ 5,000
Michael E. Thoyer, New York, New York
for the MBA African Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 12,500
Time Warner, New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies........................................ 50,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Replacement Hospital Project Fund.......................................12,500
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for research in the Medical School...............................................12,196
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and for employee matching gifts.......... 101,000
Frank H. Tranzow, Arcadia, California
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Nursing, for
the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the University Library....................... 8,100
James M. Trapp, Winnetka, Illinois
600 shares of John H. Harland Company common stock
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 13,050
Nicolas Triantafyllidis, Ann Arbor
for the Triantafyllidis Research Fund in the College of Engineering................... 15,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 5,000
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
John F. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering, the School of Music, and the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and for the University
Library and the University Musical Society........................................ 14,850
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Engineering, for WUOM/WVGR, and for employee matching gifts..................... 68,394
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for the UMI Information Management Fellowship in the School of
Information  of Library  Studies................................................... 25,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor,
Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship in the Alumni Association...................... 22,500
David F. Upton, St. Joseph
96 shares of Whirlpool Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1945 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for  the  Clem ents  Library......................................................... 5,478
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, for support
of the Law School, for the Clements Library and for employee matching gifts............ 8,900
Lawrence Usher Trust
for support in  the  M edical School.................................................. 5,000
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 12,000
Vintage Charities, Los Altos, California
for support of the Law   School.................................................... 10,000
Ching P. Volpp, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Information and Library Studies........................ 5,000
Carl H. von Ende, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law   School.................................................... 5,0000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Schools of Education and
Medicine, and the Division  of Kinesiology.......................................... 11,500
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics, and for support
in the School of Business Administration........................................... 5,000


284




February Meeting, 1996


Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
John D. Warner, Seattle, Washington
70 shares of Boeing Company common stock
for the John D. Warner Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 5,443
Charles D. Weir, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 10,000
Werner Pump Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics...............................15,000
David Westin, New York, New York
for the David Westin Endowment in the Law School, and for philosophy
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 12,600
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration,
and for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................... 76,000
Gilbert R., Jr. and Ruth Whitaker, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Art, Business Administration and Music, the
College of Literature Science, and the Arts, the Museum of Art, the
Clements Library and the University Library for student aid and other
support in the Center for the Education of Women, for the University
Musical Society, and for the Men's Glee Club...................................... 5,000
Ann Douglass Wilhite, New Canaan, Connecticut
380 shares of Merck & Company common stock for scholarships in the
Department of Athletics, and for the International Studies Discretionary
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 24,938
Calvin Williams, Encino, California
for support in  the M edical School...............................................  100,000
Janette F. Williams, Ann Arbor
for the Janette Ferrantino Pediatric Hematology Research Fund in the
Medical School................................................................. 20,500
Erwin B. Wittus Trust
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Ronald J. Woods, North Palm Beach, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................ 10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the building fund in the School of Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 50,000
John R. Worthington, Washington, DC
400 shares of MCI Communications common stock
for unrestricted support of the Law  School......................................... 10,475
Daisy T. Wu, Ann Arbor
for the  University  Library...................................................... 20,000
E. Lisk Wyckoff, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School................................................... 15,000
Xerox Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Curt Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 5,000
Maida K. Yuen, Chula Vista, California
1,050 shares of American International Group common stock
for the Maida K. Yuen Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the School
of Business Adm inistration...................................................... 95,878
Frances Ely Zahm Trust
for the Harlow Whittemore Lectureship Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and  Environment..................................................... 15,000
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund and other
support in  the  M edical School..................................................... 5,500
Roy H. Ziegler Trust
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Jessica Sullivan Bernd Estate
two Paul Cesar Helleu color drypoint prints, and a reproduction of a Whistler etching for the
Museum of Art
Elizabeth H. G. Brown, Ann Arbor
137 pieces of sheet music and 75 books for the Clements Library


285




February Meeting, 1996


Robbins Burling, Ann Arbor
seven sets of professional journals, volumes 1959-1994 for the Department of Anthropology
Irving F. Burton, Huntington Woods
two books on artist Ernst Trova, and a sculpture maquette, entitled "Abstraction Variation", by
Ernst Trove for the Museum of Art
Jack Faxon, Farmington Hills
two Chinese rugs for the Museum of Art
Sandra A. Golden, Bloomfield Hills
a Chinese carved wood table for the Museum of Art
James and Carol Goodfriend, New York, New York
a graphite, brown ink and wash artwork on paper, entitled "St. Catherine of Siena Blessing a
Sick Child", attributed to Francesco Vanni, and an engraving entitled "Farnese Hercules", by
Jacob Bos for the Museum of Art
Ruth Hiltner, Ann Arbor
a 1978 Butterfly sailboat and sail for Camp Michigania
Joel Isaacson, Ann Arbor
an oil and pencil on paper drawing, entitled "Nude", by David Slee for the Museum of Art
Sharon Lalonde, Port Austin
a collection of manuscript and printed materials relating to church architecture for the Clements
Library
Charles J. Moss, Midland
a collection of the Woods Family papers for the Clements Library
Maurice F. Parkins, Bingham Farms
a collection of 2,533 books, surveys, research studies, reports, professional and technical journals
dealing with architecture, urban planning and community development for the University
Library
Philip H. Power, Ann Arbor
a carved wood African mask for the Museum of Art
Ruth B. Siegel, Ann Arbor
two paintings: one untitled and one entitled "English Weather", by Gerome Kamrowski for the
Museum of Art
James K. Thompson, Jr., Rochester
four serigraphs: entitled, "GS-!", by Norman Ives, "Red Strangled Buildings" and "E.V. Mime",
by Folon, "Articulation Formation", by Josef Albers, and a lithograph entitled "Les Bijoux
Indescrete", by Rene Margritte; for the Museum of Art
Andrew S. Watson, Ann Arbor
books and journals for the Department of Psychology
Albert Young, Ferndale
glass art, set of three "Araktomines", by Albert Young; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Art Collection
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
computer equipment for the Department of Psychology
James R. Baker, Jr., Ann Arbor
three sails for a flying scot sailboat for Camp Michigania
Conlin-Faber Travel, Ann Arbor
airline tickets for the Office of Development
CTC Sports, West Bloomfield
a tennis fundraising videotape for the Department of Athletics
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
nine manuscript lots for the Clements Library
GM Powertrain Flint V-6 Engineering Center, Flint
an ERV V-6 engine for the Department of Physics and Engineering
S. Martin Lindenauer, Ann Arbor
a surgeons's head light with xenon light source for the Department of Surgery
Peerless Mattress & Furniture Company, Flint
furnishings and art work for the University of Michigan-Flint Faculty/Staff Lounge
Glennis M. Stout, Ann Arbor
a one-keyed flute in a stained woodbox for the School of Music
Trade Exchange of America, West Jordan
ten copies of Microsoft Access and ten copies of Microsoft PowerPoint for ITS at the University
of Michigan-Flint
Elliot S. Valenstein, Ann Arbor
books and journals for the Department of Psychology
VanBoven, Inc., Ann Arbor
five monogrammed leather bags for the National Championship Swim Coaches


286




February Meeting, 1996


C. Edward Wall, Ypsilanti
52 prints by Arthur Secunda and one print by Richard Anuszkiewicz for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
David L. Wisniewski, Canton
two keyboards, 400 adaptors and 200 mouses for ITS at the University of Michigan-Dearborn


An additional 31 gifts ranging
from the following:
Elizabeth S. Adams, Drayton Plains
Alton L. Becker, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor
Allen Erlich, Ann Arbor
Robert A. Fakler, Ann Arbor
Stephen A. Gaucher, Whitmore Lake
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor
Bridget A. Hayden, Sharon, Wisconsin
Domingo Hermosillo, Chelsea
Leslie Kish, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Pamela Morrison, Dearborn
Kent Murray, Dearborn
Hans Neukomm, New York, New York
Charles Pemble, Marquette
Harry J. Regenstreif, Ann Arbor
Shaman Drum Bookshop, Ann Arbor
Arlene P. Shy, Ann Arbor
Michael W. Skinner, St. Clair Shores
Ralf J. Spatziav, Ann Arbor
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
Christine M. Waters, New Hudson
Sue Woestehoff, Ann Arbor


from $1 to $999 in value were received
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
Albert Young, Ferndale
Armenian Genealogical Society, Provo, Utah
D. R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor
Thomas Bailey, Canton
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
Alphonse R. Burdi, Ann Arbor
Joan E. S. Chesler
Elinor W. Davidson, Ann Arbor
Margot I. Duley, Ypsilanti
Jerry M. Gray, Ann Arbor
Paul Ingersoll, Havertown, Pennsylvania
J. Dale Jeffs, Ann Arbor
David A. Johnson, Howell
Shirley Y. Kauper, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
William G. Lockwood, Grass Lake
Carl K. Mahakian, Palm Springs, California
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
Sharon Rogers Quiroz, Ann Arbor
Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor
Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota
Phillip Singer, Southfield
Mark White, Grass Lake


Personnel Actions. Provost Machen, Chancellor Nelms, and Chancellor Renick submitted a number of personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Deretic, Vojo, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, July 1, 1996
Robillard, Jean E., M.D. Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Chair,
Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, February 1, 1996
Swanson, Joel A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, July 1, 1996
Thakor, Anjan V., Ph.D., Professor of Finance, with tenure, and the Edward J. Frey
Professor of Banking and Finance, five-year term, September 1, 1996
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Mays, Clarita, reappointed Assistant Dean of Student and Multicultural Affairs, School of
Social Work, three-year term, July 1, 1996
Pijanowski, Eugene M., Professor of Art, without tenure, and Associate Dean for
Undergraduate Education, School of Art, reappointed Associate Dean for
Undergraduate Education, two-year term, July 1, 1996


287




February Meeting, 1996


Renick, James C., Professor of Education and Public Administration, with tenure, School of
Education, and Chancellor, UM Dearborn, reappointed Chancellor, UM-Dearborn, two
and one-half year term, January 1, 1998
Weiss, Janet A., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policiy, with tenure,
Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Public Policy,
without tenure, School of Public Policy, appointment extended as Associate Dean,
School of Business Administration, eight-month term, January 1, 1996
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Faires, Nora, ssociate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of History, UM-Flint, three year term, July 1, 1996
Humes, H. David, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Internal Medicine, February 14, 1996
Jones, Betty J., Professor of Theatre, with tenure, School of Music, also appointed Associate
Dean Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, January 1 1996-June 30, 1999
Lewis, Eari, Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Senior Associate Dean, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, May 1, 1996-June 20, 2000
Olson, Gary M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Information and Library Studies, without tenure, School of
Information and Library Studies, also appointed Associate Dean, School of Information
and Library Studies, three-year term, October 1, 1995
Repic, Randall L., Assistant Professor of Resource Science, UM-Flint, also appointed Acting
Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint, six-month term,
January 1, 1996
Richards, James W., from Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, and Associate Dean, College
of Pharmacy, to Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, and Interim Dean, College of
Pharmacy, six-month term, January 1, 1996
Sichel Martin, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Interim
Chair, Department of Aerospace Engineering, five-month term, January 1, 1996
Schmoll, Beverly J., from Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, and Interim Director
of Graduate and Special Programs, UM-Flint, to Professor of Physical Therapy, with
tenure, and Dean of Graduate Programs and Research, UM-Flint, three and one-half
year term, January 1, 1996
Zellers, Edward T., Associate Professor of Environmental and Indistrial Health, with tenure,
School of Public Health, also appointed Associate Professor of Chemistry, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aleinikoff, T. Alexander, Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary extended,
January 1-December 31, 1996
Gabrielli, Michel, J. P., Lecturer III in French Language and Literature, leave without salary
extended, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Michael D., reappointed Chair, Air Force Officer Education Program, six-month term,
January 18, 1997
Canning, Kathleen M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, also appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term,
July 1, 1996


288




February Meeting, 1996


Courant, Paul N., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
three-year term, July 1, 1996
Davidson, Donald, the James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence,
March 18-22, 1996
Francis, Anthony H. Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term,
July 1, 1996
Karnopp Bruce H., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, also appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term,
July 1, 1996
Martin, Michael M., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term,
July 1, 1996
Miller, Josef M., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Director, Kresge
Hearing Research Institute, also appointedthe Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professor of
Communication Studies, five-year term, February 16, 1996
Potter, David S., Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, also appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three-year term,
July 1 1996
Weiss, Stephen J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and the E. Gifford and Love
Barnett Upjohn Professor of Internal Medicine and Oncology, reappointed the E.
Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn Professor of Internal Medicine and Oncology,
five-year term, November 15, 1995
George F. and Nancy P. Valassis Professorship in Urologic
Oncology. The Regents approved the establishment of the George F. and
Nancy P. Valaiss Professorship in Urologic Oncology in the Medical School,
effective February 16, 1996.
Dean of Graduate Programs and Research. The Regents approved
the establishment of the position of Dean of Graduate Programs and
Research at the University of Michigan-Flint, effective January 1, 1996.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Nystuen, John D., January 1-June 30, 1996, vice James C. Snyder, assumed associate dean
position
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Maloy, Pat, retroactive appointment, January 1-April 30, 1996, vice Christine M. Brooks, on
sabbatical leave
Transportation Research Institute Executive Committee
Beck, Robert F., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998
Sivak, Michael, retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998
Stein, Jeffrey L., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Srinivasan, Keeran R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Heinrichs, Kara A., B.S.E., Lecturer in Technical Communications


289




February Meeting, 1996


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Astourian, Stephan H., M.A., Lecturer II in American History
Bardwell, James, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
Buchan, Mark, M.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Clark, R. Lane, M.F.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Crawford, Kenneth M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Dunn Robert A. Ph.D. Lecturer I in Physics
Foss, Pedar W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Classical Studies
Grafe, Alan G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, November 1, 1995
Griener, Paul S., B.S., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Hagy, Alyson C., M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Kardia, Diana, M.A., Lecturer II in Psychology
Kineke, Sheila A., M.A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Kotre, Kathy B., M.A., Lecturer II in Psychology
Lin, Ali M. T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics
Luebbe Christopher D., M.A., Lecturer I in Italian
Mihic, Sophia J., M.A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Nolta, Kathleen V., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chemistry
Reynolds, David W., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Schubnell, Michael S. G., Diplom Dr.Rernat, Lecturer I in Physics
Shaver, Jeremy M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chemistry
Shin, Donggyun, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Economics
Simoes, Solange D., Ph.D., Lectutrer II in Sociology
Springer, Tamar, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Sweeney, Christopher J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics
Weiers Matthew G., B.A., Lecturer I in Film andVideo Studies, September 1, 1995
Zelditch, Miriam L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Medical School
Allswede, Michael P., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, January 10, 1996
Chafty, Michael D., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, January 2, 1996
Chen, Zhi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Colone, Pino D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1995
Durham, Lucian A. III, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1996
Gomez, Hernan F., M.D., Clinical Instructor I in Surgery
Manikas, Steven G., D.O. Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice
Munoz-Drummond, Martha, D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Russell, Mark W. W., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Sandvig, Sara J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
March 1, 1996
Setty, Grandhim N., M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, November 1, 1995
Snider, Sandra J M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 9, 1996
Wagner, Ronald G., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Curran, Lisa M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Environmental Biology School of
Natural Resources and Environment, and Assistant Professor of Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1996
School of Nursing
Walker, Deborah S., D.NSC., Assistant Professor of Nursing
School of Public Health
Ruch, Randall J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Toxicology, September 1, 1996
Bechhofer, Laurie J., M.P.H., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, September
1, 1995
Presby, Kay L., M.P.H., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, September 1, 1995
School of Social Work
Burton, David L., M.S.W., Lecturer in Social Work
Hollingsworth, Leslie D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Social Work, January 1, 1996, and from
Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Social Work, September 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn School ofEngineering
Goldbold, C. Van, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bailey, Marlon M., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of African-American Studies


290




February Meeting, 1996


UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Hudson, Bonnie L., Lecturer in Nursing
Richards, Sharon M., M.S.N., Lecturer m Nursing
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1996
School of Dentistry
Sweier, Domenica G., from Lecturer in Dentistry to Research Fellow
College of Engineering
Robertson, Richard E., Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with tenure, also appointedDirector,
Macromolecular Science and Engineering Center, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richards, Janet E., Assistant Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, also appointed
Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies
Potts, Blyden B., from Lecturer II in Sociology to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant
Medical School
Suarez, Therese M., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Nickoloff, Brian J., from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Dermatology, without tenure, to Visiting Associate Professor I of
Pathology, January 20, 1996
Sima, Anders A. F from Professor of Pathology, without tenure, and Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, to Visiting Assistant Professor of Pathology, February 1, 1996
Shane Steven A., Lecturer in Surgery, also appointed Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1995
College of Pharmacy
Woster, Patricia S., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Assistant Professor I of
Pharmacy, March 3, 1996
School of Public Health
Demitrack, Mark A., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Adjunct
Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health,
to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of
Public Health
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Afford, Peggy A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, September 1, 1995
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, four-month term
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Livermore, Shaw Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, four-month term
Scholler, Harald F., Professor Emeritus of German, four-month term
Medical School
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one-year
term, November 1, 1995
Castor, C. William, Profesor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term


291




February Meeting, 1996


Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, one-year term
Dekornfeld, Thomas J., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, one-year term
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, one-year term, December 1, 1995
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, one-year term
McLean, James A., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, one-year term
School of Music
Britton, Allen P., Professor Emeritus of Music and Dean Emeritus, four-month term
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Cares, Charles W. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Landscape Architecture and Director Emeritus
of the Nichols Arboretum, four-month term
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Warschausky, Sidney, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, four-month
term
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Cox, Kendall B., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, four-month term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Duke, Richard D., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1998
School of Dentistry
Rowe, Nathaniel H. Jr., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, the William R. Mann Professor
of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Oral Pathology, without tenure,
Medical School, retirement furlough, May 15, 1995-October 15, 1997
College of Engineering
Freudenberg, James S., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1996
Stevenson, Dwight W., Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, retirement
furlough January 1-December 31, 1996
Williams, William J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave, February 1-April 30, 1996
Wineman, Alan S., Professor of Applied Mechanics and Molecular Science, and Engineering,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
School of Information
Warner Amy J., Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Division of Kinesiology
Brooks, Christine M., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Baxter, Charles M., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 1996
Bien, David D., Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-April 30, 1996
Downs, Laura L., Associate Professor of History with tenure sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1995, and scholarly activity leave January 1-May 31, 1996
Fine, John V. A. Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Gocek, Fatma M., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996


292




February Meeting, 1996


Hart, Janet C., Associate Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995
Johnson, Lemuel A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Kopelman, Raoul, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, and the Kasimir Fajans Professor of
Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Livingstone, Frank B., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Research Scientist,
Museum of Anthropology, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1996
Meiland, Jack W., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Mullaney, Steven G., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Somers, Margaret R., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Stafford, J. Tobias, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995 -May 31, 1996
Wagaw, Teshome G., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1995, and duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 1996
Yocum, Charles F., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Professor of Chemistry, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Zwiep, Mary N., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31, 1996
Medical School
Barclay, Mel L., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30, 1996
Blodi, Barbara A., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, leave without salary, July 1, 1995 -June 30, 1996
Camper, Sally A., Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
November 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
Clarke, Michael F., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1995
Foster, Norman L., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1996
Kazerooni, Ella A., Assistant Professor of Radiology, extended sick leave, December 22, 1995 -February 19, 1996
Krause, Christine W., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, extended sick leave, October
27-November 20, 1995, and family medical leave, November 21 1995-January 15, 1996
Maybaum, Jonathan, Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, without tenure, sabbatical leave, October 1, 1995-March 31, 1996
Webb, R. Clinton, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 15-June 1, 1996
School of Music
Crawford, David E., Professor of Music, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Kaenzig, Fritz A., Associate Professor of Music (Tuba/Euphonium), with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
College of Pharmacy
Paul, Ara G., Dean and Professor of Pharmacognosy, with tenure, administrative leave,
January 1-December 31, 1996
School of Public Health
Zellers, Edward T., Associate Professor of Environmental and Indistrial Health, with tenure,
School of Public Health, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Shah, Parth J., Assistant Professor of Economics, extended sick leave,
January 21-April 30, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Chen, Yubao, Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996


293




February Meeting, 1996


Shaout, Adnan K., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1995-April 30, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Murray, Barbara B., Associate Professor of Business Economics and Finance, sabbatical
leave, January 23-April 30, 1996
CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Blinder, S. M., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1-December 31, 1995 (previously reported as sabbatical leave)
Johnson, Lemuel A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, extended
sick leave, September 22, 1994-December 31, 1995 (previously reported as
September 22, 1994-May 31, 1995)
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1995, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Johnson, Robert E., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Academic
Programs and Administration, resigned
School of Business Administration
Danko, James M. Lecturer in Business Administration, resigned
Griffin, Carleton H., Professor of Accounting, without tenure, retired
School of Dentistry
Campbell John H., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and Lecturer in Surgery,
Medical School, resigned, December 22, 1995
Clayton, Joseph A., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retired
Crow Heidi C., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, resigned
Strachan, Donald S., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate
Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, Medical School, retired, March 31, 1996
College of Engineering
Chen, Kan, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, and Professor ofUrban, Technological, and Environmental Planning,
without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and Research Scientist,
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, retired
Kammash, Terry B. Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, retired, January 3, 1996
Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retired
Singh, Medini R., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, resigned
School of Information
Garland, Kathleen, Assistant Professor of Information and Library Studies, term complete,
May 31, 1995
Panko, Walter B., Professor of Information and Library Studies, without tenure, resigned,
July 31, 1995
Law School
Field, Julie K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, resigned
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Adamczyk, Laura L., Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete
Betancourt, Luis A., Lecturer II in Sociology, deceased, April 9, 1995
Blinder, S. M., Professor of Chemistry, retired
Boruta-Sadkowski, Alicja, Lectuter I m Slavic Linguistics, term complete, August 31, 1995
Butler, John J. III, Lecturer II in Philosophy, term complete, April 30, 1995


294




February Meeting, 1996


Carlson, David M., Lecturer I in Japanese, term complete, April 30, 1995
Dykes, DeWitt S., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies, term complete,
April 30, 1995
Ericson, William A., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, retired
Forshee, Richard, Lecturer II in Political Science, term complete, April 30, 1995
Grayzel, Susan R., Lecturer II in History, term complete, April 30, 1995
Herold, Kirsten F., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, and Lecturer II in
Germanic Languages and Literatures, term complete
Holliman, Daniel A., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, term complete,
April 30, 1995
Kato, Ayako, Lecturer I in Japanese, term complete, April 30, 1995
Kearns, Josie, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Kurtz, Marcus J., Lecturer II in Politica Science, term complete April 30, 1995
Langlois, Walter R., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1995
Laskowski, Gene L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Lehne Laurie, Lecturer II in Sociology, resigned, April 30, 1995
Libretti, Timothy R., Lecturer I in English, term complete
Liu, Maichen T., Lecturer I in Comparative Literature, term complete, April 30, 1995
Lutkehaus, Nancy C., Lecturer II in Anthropology, term complete, April 30, 1995
Martin, Glenn B., Lecturer II in Chemistry, term complete
Mintz, Eric S., Lectutrer II in Communication, term complete
Opprs, Stefan E., Assistant Professor of Economics, resigned, November 14, 1995
Ore, Tracy E., Lecturer II in Sociology, term complete, April 30, 1995
Peters, Stephanie L., Lecturer II in Russian Literature, term complete, April 30, 1995
Pietila, Richard W., Lecturer II in Communication, term complete
Poteet, Ellen S., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, term complete, December 31, 1994
Puppi-Redfern, Liliana, Lecturer I in Spanish, resigned
Qu, Sangping, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Literatures, term complete, April 30, 1995
Rooney,7Phyllis A., Lecturer II in Philosophy, term complete April 30, 1995
Schiff, Rebecca L., Lecturer II in Political Science, term complete April 30, 1995
Shaw, Todd C., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, term complete, April 30, 1995
Spang, Rebecca L., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, resigned,
January 31, 1996
Watanabe, Yasuo, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Literatures, term complete,
April 30, 1995
Weintraub, Daniel J., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, retired
Medical School
Levine, Myron, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, retired, January 7, 1996
Marshall Jeffrey S., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
Nickoloff, Brian J., Associate Professor of Pathology with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Dermatology, without tenure, resigned, January 19, 1996
Rotter, Steven J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, resigned, December 1, 1995
School of Nursing
Howard, Lucy A. C., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, resigned
Rowsey, Pamela J., Assistant Professor of Nursing, resigned
School of Public Health
Cornell, Richard G., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, retired, January 31, 1996
Vaughn, Thomas, Lecturer in Health Services and Management, resigned, February 28, 1995
School of Social Work
Johnson, Harold R., Professor of Social Work with tenure, School of Social Work, and
Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of Public
Health, retired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retired


295




February Meeting, 1996


CHANGE TO
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1995
Medical School
Robertson, John M., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, resigned (previously
reported as December 11, 1995)
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted eleven faculty
retirement memoirs.
S. M. Blinder, professor of chemistry, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1995.
Professor Blinder received his A.B. degree from Cornell University in
1953 and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1954 and
1958, respectively. Following positions at the Johns Hopkins University
(1958-61), the Carnegie Institute of Technology (1961-62), and Harvard
University (1962-63), he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
professor of chemistry in 1963.
Professor Blinder has had an extraordinarily diverse career in both
teaching and research. He has been an inspiring teacher for a generation of
graduate and undergraduate students and has offered the largest number of
different courses ever taught by a member of the chemistry faculty and
probably in the College of LS&A. He has also published two texts on such
different subjects as classical thermodynamics and quantum dynamics, both
of which have received great acclaim as models of incisive scholarship and
precision and have been much imitated by other authors.
Professor Blinder's research has centered around various forms of
perturbation methods in physics and chemistry. He has had particular
success in achieving closed-form solutions of the Schrodinger equation for
some major problems, including that of the Fermi contact interaction in
terms of what is now known as the "Blinder operator." Professor Blinder was
also successful in obtaining an analytical solution for the Coulomb (hydrogen
atom) propagator which had eluded other workers for over forty years. This
was the culmination of his discovery of a new spectral variational principle
which allows optimization of the energy spectrum of an approximate propagator. These general methods also led to the resolution of an old paradox
concerning the canonical partition function for the hydrogen atom. Despite
his formal retirement, Professor Blinder intends to remain active, particularly
in the important area of nonlinear dynamics and in the search for quantum
chaos.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming S. M. Blinder
professor emeritus of chemistry.
C. William Castor, Jr., M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired
from active faculty status on November 30, 1995, after a career at the
University of Michigan that spanned more than 40 years.
A Michigan native, Dr. Castor pursued undergraduate training at the
University of Michigan in 1943-44 and 1946-47 and received his M.D. degree
from the University of Michigan Medical School in 1951. He was a house


296




February Meeting, 1996


officer in internal medicine from 1951-54, a junior clinical instructor from
1954-55, and instructor in internal medicine from  1955-57.  He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1957, associate professor in 1961, and
professor in 1967.
Dr. Castor's illustrious investigative career has resulted in the publication of approximately 100 peer-reviewed publications and multiple reviews
and book chapters. His early research was some of the first to use cell
culture methods to study the human synovium. The application of cell
culture techniques to examine the mechanisms of inflammatory activation
responsible for joint destruction in arthritis was groundbreaking and has
subsequently become central to almost all investigation of cellular mechanisms underlying arthritis inflammation.
In 1981, Dr. Castor was awarded the International Geigy Rheumatism
Prize by the International League Against Rheumatism, and in 1985, he
received the Lee Howley Prize for Arthritis Research from the Arthritis
Foundation. These are the most prestigious scientific awards in the field of
rheumatology. In 1991, he delivered the University of Michigan Distinguished Faculty Lecture in Biomedical Research. In 1992, he was honored as
a Master of the American College of Rheumatology, and in 1994, he received
the Laureate Award from the American College of Physicians. After his
retirement from active faculty status, Dr. Castor will remain active in laboratory research, patient care, and teaching.
The Regents now salute this distinguished clinical scholar for his
lengthy and dedicated service to the University of Michigan by naming C.
William Castor, Jr., professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Joseph A. Clayton, D.D.S., professor of dentistry, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1995.
Dr. Clayton received his B.S. degree from Utah State University in 1952,
his D.D.S. degree from Washington University in 1959, and his M.S. degrees
in denture prosthesis and restorative dentistry from the University of Michigan Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies in 1966 and 1967,
respectively. He was appointed instructor in complete dentures in 1959 and
assistant professor at the Washington University School of Dentistry in 1964.
Dr. Clayton joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of
Dentistry as an assistant professor in 1966; he was promoted to associate
professor in 1970 and professor in 1974.
Dr. Clayton is a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon, Phi Kappa Phi, and
Sigma Chi honor societies. He has served the school and the University
through membership on a number of committees, including those governing
graduate dental education, human subjects, research, resuscitation and
emergency procedures, student affairs, and student table clinics. He directed
the graduate program in restorative dentistry (crown and bridge) for 20
years. Dr. Clayton's service has extended to membership and offices in
professional societies, including the American Association of Dental
Research, the American Academy of Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics, the
American College of Dentists, and the American Dental Association and has
served the Washtenaw District Dental Society in several capacities, including


297




February Meeting, 1996


president. He has been a diplomate of the American Board of Prosthodontics
since 1968.
Known for his dedication to teaching, Dr. Clayton has chaired the
master's theses committees of over 50 students. He has also contributed
through research, in the areas of restorative crown and bridge, occlusion, and
temporomandibular joint dysfunction. He has contributed to the scientific
literature through professional journals, as well as through chapters in
several textbooks. Dr. Clayton has also developed numerous television teaching tapes and manuals and has been a lecturer at major meetings and study
clubs, both nationally and internationally.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Joseph A. Clayton professor emeritus of dentistry.
Richard G. Cornell, professor of biostatistics in the School of Public
Health, retired from active faculty status on January 31, 1996, after a most
productive career.
Professor Cornell received his A.B. degree in 1952 from the University
of Rochester, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1954 and 1956, respectively,
from Virginia Polytechnic Institute. From 1956-60, he worked as a statistician for the U.S. Public Health Service and for the Communicable Disease
Center. From 1960-71, he served on the faculty of Florida State University
as associate professor (1960-68) and professor (1968-71) of statistics. He
came to the University of Michigan in 1971 as professor of biostatistics and
chair of the Department of Biostatistics.
Professor Cornell served as chair for 14 years, building the department
into one of the major biostatistics departments in the country. He served
again as interim chair of the department from 1990-93. From 1993-95, he
postponed his planned retirement to serve as interim dean of the School of
Public Health. He displayed steady and wise leadership during that period of
serious controversy within the school, which included a review of the school's
activities and culminated in a major reorganization from eight to five
departments.
Through his research, Professor Cornell made important methodological
contributions to medical decision-making and to the design and analysis of
surveys and clinical trials. He has served as director of biostatistics cores for
the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center, the Michigan Multipurpose Arthritic Center, and the Michigan Cancer Center, and he also
directed the Data Coordinating Center for the Heterosexual HIV Transmission Study. As both a teacher and administrator, he has made major contributions to the training of biostatisticians for industry and academia. He has
also played an important role in teaching clinicians and other professionals
how to conduct scientific research through the non-residential master's and
Ph.D. programs offered by the Department of Biostatistics and the School of
Public Health.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming Richard G. Cornell professor emeritus of
biostatistics.


298




February Meeting, 1996


Carleton H. Griffin, professor of accounting in the School of Business
Administration, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1995.
Professor Griffin received his B.B.A. degree in 1950, his M.B.A. degree
in 1953, and his J.D. degree in 1953, all from the University of Michigan.
Following completion of his J.D. degree, he joined the firm of Touche Ross
and Company, serving in various positions, including national director of
operations and chair of the board. In September 1985, he joined the faculty
of the School of Business Administration as a professor, teaching in the area
of accounting.
Professor Griffin has been an outstanding teacher and faculty advisor.
Where a normal faculty course load is three or four courses, he has consistently taught five courses every year. His teacher ratings are routinely
among the highest in his area and in the school, ranging between 4.5 and 5.0
on a 5.0 scale. He recently received the Student Award for Teaching Excellence in the B.B.A. program for 1994-95, a highly regarded, student-selected
award. Professor Griffin's presence in the classroom will be sorely missed,
both by students and by his colleagues who have relied on him as an example
of classroom excellence and leadership.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Carleton H.
Griffin professor emeritus of accounting.
Garth W. Jones, associate professor of microbiology and immunology,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1995, after a productive
career as an investigator, teacher, and consultant.
A native of South Wales, U.K., Professor Jones received his B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the University of Reading in 1969 and 1972, respectively.
He came to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1975 and
was promoted to associate professor in 1982.
The main thrust of Professor Jones' research involved the adhesive
properties of bacteria and the role of adhesion in bacterial pathogenicity and
in the colonization of the body by these microorganisms. His early work on
the adhesive properties of pathogenic E. coli bacteria was a pioneering contribution that, for the first time, proved conclusively that bacterial adhesion to
the tissues of the body is an important mechanism in the development of
infectious disease. His subsequent research included studies of the role of
bacterial adhesion in cholera and in the colonization of the oral cavity by
streptococci. He made noteworthy contributions to the genetics of virulence
of salmonella typhimurium (an intestinal pathogen), the genetics of enzymes
involved in the production of adhesion molecules of streptococci, and the
ecological implications of adhesion factors. These contributions have been
documented in numerous articles in scientific journals and in many book
chapters and monographs.
Professor Jones has been an invited speaker at numerous conferences
and symposia and has been a visiting professor at universities in Europe and
Australia. He has served as consultant to a number of organizations, including the National Institutes of Health, the World Health Organization, the
Veterans Administration, and various pharmaceutical companies. Throughout his career, Professor Jones has also been a mentor to doctoral candidates


299




February Meeting, 1996


and an effective teacher of undergraduate, graduate, medical, and dental
students. For these contributions, he was awarded the Kaiser Permanente
Award for Excellence in Teaching.
The Regents now salute this dedicated faculty member by naming Garth
W. Jones associate professor emeritus of microbiology and immunology.
Terry Kammash, professor of nuclear engineering and radiological
sciences and Stephen S. Attwood Professor, retired from active faculty status
on January 3, 1996.
Professor Kammash received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from Pennsylvania State University in 1952 and 1954, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as instructor in engineering mechanics and nuclear
engineering in 1955. In 1958, Professor Kammash received, from the
University of Michigan, one of the first three Ph.D. degrees in nuclear
engineering awarded in the United States and was appointed assistant
professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1960 and professor in
1967. Professor Kammash served as acting chair of the department from
1976-77 and was named the Stephen S. Attwood Professor of Engineering in
1977. During his career, he has produced more Ph.D. recipients than any
other faculty member in the department.
Professor Kammash's primary research since the early sixties was in
magnetic fusion. He carried out some of the more comprehensive analyses of
plasma dynamics in the magnetic mirror machine and was credited with the
identification of several major plasma instabilities that have practically eliminated the mirror machine as a potential power reactor. His recent proposal
for utilization of the gasdynamic mirror as a propulsion device could open up
the solar system and beyond to human exploration. NASA has expressed
interest in this device and plans to carry out basic experiments to test his
ideas. In 1975, Professor Kammash wrote the first book on fusion reactor
physics and engineering. His unique combination of talents in fusion and
aeronautics also resulted in his co-authoring the first book on the utilization
of fusion energy in space propulsion.
Professor Kammash is a fellow of the American Physical Society, the
American Nuclear Society (ANS), and the American Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics. He has received several awards from the ANS and served
as chair of the Subcommittee on the Role of Nuclear Engineering in
Controlled Fusion Research for the President's Office of Science, and
Technology in 1972.  He has also received the College of Engineering
Research Award and the Department of Nuclear Engineering Service Award.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Terry Kammash
professor emeritus of nuclear engineering and radiological sciences and
Stephen S. Attwood professor emeritus.
Myron Levine, professor of human genetics in the Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on January 7, 1996.
Professor Levine received his B.A. degree from Brooklyn College in 1947
and his Ph.D. degree from Indiana University in 1952. He held several
positions as a researcher and biologist before joining the University of


300




February Meeting, 1996


Michigan as associate professor in 1961. He was promoted to professor in
1967.
Professor Levine was responsible for introducing the discipline of
prokaryotic molecular genetics to the Department of Human Genetics. First
introduced to the field of genetics through studies on Paramecium with the
legendary Tracy Sonneborn at Indiana University, he was influenced by the
group of researchers who had seized upon bacterial viruses (phages) as the
ideal subject with which to probe the central secrets of genetics. The nature
of the gene, its mode of action and regulation, and the concept of a genetic
code were discoveries of the Phage School that transformed modern biology.
Professor Levine's contributions to this field were made through genetic and
molecular biological analysis of bacteriophage P22, a virus of salmonella
bacteria. Beginning in the late 1950s, he and his students isolated mutants
in phage P22, established a linkage map of its genes, and initiated a brilliant
study of how this phage achieves lysogeny, the continuous maintenance of
the viral genome within an infected salmonella cell and its progeny. Professor Levine succeeded in describing the complex program of molecular events
required for lysogeny, including sequential gene activation and recombination of phage and cell DNA. He next turned his attention to herpes simplex;
for the past 20 years his laboratory has been in the forefront of the molecular
genetic analysis of this important human infection.
Among Professor Levine's former students are a Nobel laureate, as well
as others who have become nationally known geneticists and virologists. He
received the University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1980
and the Distinguished Faculty Lectureship in Biomedical Research in 1987.
His leadership of the graduate program in cell and molecular biology for a
fifteen-year period was critical to this program's success.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Myron Levine professor emeritus of human genetics.
Joseph A. Placek, associate librarian, retired from the University
Library on December 31, 1995.
A native of Michigan, Mr. Placek earned his A.B. degree from the
University of Detroit in 1953, his M.L.S. degree from Catholic University of
America in 1956, and his M.S. degree in Russian language from Georgetown
University in 1965. He joined the staff at the University of Michigan Library
in 1967 as head of the Slavic Area Program Unit.
In the course of his 28-year career, Mr. Placek helped develop the library
collection and helped establish local and national bibliographic databases.
During his tenure as head of the Slavic Area Program Unit, Mr. Placek was
instrumental in developing the specialized collection of monographic and
serial publications through acquisition of quality material and creation of
bibliographic records for local and national databases. He established a
strong relationship with the Center for Russian and East European Studies
and closely supported the faculty and graduate students in their research
efforts. His knowledge of the Slavic collection is exceptional.
Mr. Placek made important contributions to national programs in which
the library participated. In 1981, he became the NACO liaison to the Library


301




February Meeting, 1996


of Congress, a project in which libraries participated in the building of the
national name authority file. He was named local coordinator of the
National Cooperative Cataloging Program in 1988, a program to assist the
Library of Congress in creating authoritative monographic bibliographic
records for national distribution. After joining the Serials Cataloging Unit in
1992, Mr. Placek became a key contributor to the CONSER program to
cooperatively build and maintain a national database of authoritative serial
bibliographic records.
By virtue of his dedication to professional excellence, productivity, and
broad knowledge of the library and its collections, Mr. Placek has made a
significant contribution to a generation of university scholars.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Joseph
A. Placek associate librarian emeritus.
Om P. Sharma, South Asia librarian, retired from the University
Library, on December 31, 1995.
Dr. Sharma completed his B.A. and M.A. degrees at Panjab University in
India in 1954 and 1960, respectively. He earned certification in librarianship
at the Municipal College of Commerce, in Newcastle, England, in 1961, and
received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1964. He came
to the University of Michigan in 1966 as bibliographer and head of the South
Asian Unit and assumed responsibility for building nationally significant
vernacular language collections from India, Pakistan, and other countries of
South Asia.
Dr. Sharma's efforts have been enhanced by his unusually broad
command of South Asian languages, including Hindi, Urdu, Panjabi,
Sanskrit, Gujurati, Prakrit, Pali, and Marathi. This language competence,
reinforced by his scholarly study of South Asian cultures, has made Dr.
Sharma uniquely qualified to build research library collections, contribute
expert cataloging support, provide insightful reference assistance, teach
courses on South Asian bibliography, and serve as a long-standing member of
the executive committee of the Center for South and Southeast Asian
Studies.
Dr. Sharma has also been a national leader in South Asian librarianship.
He has served as a member of the board of directors of the Association of
College and Research Libraries (ACRL); chair of the Asian and African
Section of ACRL; founder and member of the executive committee of the
South Asia Microform Project; chair of the Committee on South Asian
Libraries and Documentation; member of the executive committee of the
Association for Asian Studies; and maintained active membership in the
American Oriental Society, the International Association of Oriental Librarians, and the American Library Association. He has also published scholarly
articles and book reviews on the development of press laws and academic
library systems in India. His scholarship, commitment to excellence, and
breadth of knowledge have supported several generations of scholars and
made an enduring contribution to the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Om P.
Sharma South Asia librarian emeritus.


302




February Meeting, 1996


Daniel J. Weintraub, professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and research scientist in the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Weintraub received his A.B. degree from Dartmouth College
in 1954. Following service in the U.S. Navy, he received his M.A. (1961) and
Ph.D. (1962) degrees from the University of Illinois. He came to the University of Michigan in 1962 as assistant professor of psychology; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1966 and professor in 1970.
Professor Weintraub's research has made significant contributions to
our understanding of human visual perception. He was among the first to
use the concepts and analytical methods of the information-processing
approach to gain new insights into the classic issues in perception. His work
has covered a wide range of those issues; however, his primary work has
been on visual perception of pattern and form, with particular emphasis on
the geometric visual illusions. As one of this century's foremost contributors
to that enduring topic, he has presented ingenious and carefully crafted
dissections of many of the classic visual illusions that have revealed important aspects of the mechanisms responsible for those illusions, and for
pattern perception in general.
Throughout his career, Professor Weintraub has also contributed to the
practical application of vision research, especially in the area of aerospace
human factors. He has been a visiting scientist at the Naval Aerospace
Medical Research Laboratory in Pensacola, Florida, and at NASA's Ames
Research Center at Moffett Field, California. From 1985-95, he served as
director of the University of Michigan's interdisciplinary NASA Center of
Excellence in Man-Systems Research, a highly successful program for graduate students with research interests in aerospace human factors. He also
directed the Department of Psychology Honors Program and taught in that
program for 15 years. He received the Distinguished Service Award for
excellence in teaching and research in 1966 and the Ruth M. Sinclair Award
for excellence in honors counseling in 1979.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Daniel J. Weintraub professor emeritus of psychology and research scientist
emeritus.
Memorials. President Duderstadt noted the passing of George C.
Summerfield, professor emeritus of nuclear engineering and macromolecular
science and engineering, who had been a colleague of his in the College of
Engineering.
Death of Peg Molin. Regent Power noted that the record should also
include the loss of Peg Molin, whose memorial service had been held the
previous day. He spoke of her "intimate involvement and support for things
of the University, and the extraordinary role played by her husband, Keith,
and the sense of loss that people share."
President Duderstadt observed, "Peg was a very important member of
the Michigan team. In a sense, its a loss, but she'll always be a part of the


303




February Meeting, 1996


tradition and spirit of Michigan. One of my great memories of Peg was when
she sat on the bench as the honorary coach during the Michigan-Duke
basketball game, which we won, and afterwards in the locker room was given
the game ball by the team. A fitting tribute, indeed, and we'll miss her very
much."
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
University of Michigan Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. John Forsyth to present
the UM Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report, which contains financial
ratios for the fiscal year ending 1994-95 as well as the average for the last
five years. Mr. Forsyth reported that for the first six months of the current
fiscal year, activity levels have not been as high as had been anticipated and
expenses have not been as low as anticipated, resulting in a loss of $16
million in operations. It is projected that the loss on operations will total $19
million by the end of the fiscal year, but this loss will be offset by projected
interest income of $38 million, yielding a projected $19 million gain. With
regard to cash flow, Mr. Forsyth noted that the Hospitals funds $50 million
per year in depreciation for replacement of assets. He also emphasized that
the Hospitals' overall financial health is excellent. The Hospitals' challenges
are created by reductions in support for graduate medical education, the
changes occurring nationally in health care delivery systems, and the fact
that funding sources don't consider the severe nature of illnesses treated by
academic medical centers.
Mr. Forsyth reviewed statistics contained in the Regents Communication, which contain measures of profitability, liquidity, capital structure, and
patient activity for the University of Michigan's hospitals compared to other
AA rated medical centers, national averages, and other teaching hospitals.
On all of these measures, the UM Hospitals' position is favorable.
Clinical Enterprise
Regent Baker moved approval for creation of the University of Michigan
Health System and the appointment of John D. Forsyth as its president and
chief executive officer, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Power seconded the motion. The University of Michigan Health System will
initially be comprised of the University of Michigan Hospitals, M-Care, and
the Michigan Health Corporation.
Regent Baker commented that Mr. Forsyth and his team deserve much
credit for sustaining the financial health of the medical center in spite of the
many challenges being created by the current health care environment.
Provost Machen pointed out that the new title for Mr. Forsyth does not
change the accountability of the University's academic mission. He stated,
"The deans of the health sciences schools continue to be responsible for the
academic programs, and the Hospitals and Medical School still have a
separate identity to address the several missions of the Medical School. The


304




February Meeting, 1996


health system exists as a very important part of the partnership with the
Medical School that we must have in order to achieve our academic mission.
This is a separate entity from the academic aspects of our medical school."
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV Audited Financial Reports
for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1995 and Statements of Support,
Revenue and Expenditures (Operating Fund) for years ended June
30, 1995 and 1994
Vice President Harrison introduced Mr. Donovan Reynolds, director of
broadcasting, and asked him to comment on his initial impressions and ideas
about Michigan Radio (WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM) since assuming his
position six weeks ago. Mr. Reynolds noted that it was imperative that
Michigan Radio attract more listeners, that it take a more aggressive
approach to fundraising, and that improvements be made to the station's
physical plant. He offered some of the ideas he had for achieving these objectives, which include submission of grant proposals to secure additional
funding, making significant investments in up-to-date technology, and
considering major changes to the station's format.
Following some discussion, Regent Varner moved adoption of the
audited financial reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995. Regent Horning seconded the motion,
and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents also received statements of support, revenue, and expenditures (operating fund) for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the
years ended June 30, 1995 and 1994.
GMO Emerging Country Debt, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack stated that the University is proposing to withdraw up to half of its investment in the GMO Emerging Countries
Debt Fund and invest these funds in GMO Emerging Countries Debt, L.P.
He noted that the amount of the University's interest in GMO Emerging
Country Debt had grown from the $78.4 million noted in the second
paragraph of the Regents Communication in December 1995 to a current
value of $88 million, representing a return of 80.0 percent, as opposed to the
69.7 percent noted in the Regents Communication. The recommendation
before the Regents is to take up to half of the University's existing balance in
the GMO Emerging Countries Debt Fund at the time of the transaction and
invest it in GMO Emerging Countries Debt, L.P.
Regent Horning moved approval of investing up to half of the University's existing balance in the GMO Emerging Countries Debt Fund in GMO
Emerging Countries Debt, L.P., subject to favorable review of the documents
for their legal acceptability by the General Counsel's Office. Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


305




February Meeting, 1996


State Building Authority Financing Projects (UM-Dearborn Campus
Renovation Project Phase II)
Regent Horning moved that the Regents adopt the following resolution
regarding the University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Renovation Project
(Phase II) and authorize the appropriate officers to 1) execute the construction agreement and completion assurance agreement prior to the SBA's
issuance of commercial paper notes; and 2) upon completion of the project
and prior to the issuance of the SBA's bonds, execute the lease, convey title
to the property as required by the lease, and execute any necessary easement
agreement. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT, A COMPLETION
ASSURANCE AGREEMENT, A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE
AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN - DEARBORN CAMPUS RENOVATIONS (PHASE II)
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a
form of construction agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and among the State
Building Authority (the "Authority"), the state of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of
the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "University"),
providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority and the University with
respect to the University's Dearborn Campus Renovations (Phase II) and the site therefor
(the "Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and
prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) a form of completion assurance
agreement (the 'Completion Agreement"), between the Authority and the University,
providing assurance to the Authority that the University will proceed to complete the Facil~
ity in a timely manner, (c) the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (d) a lease (the
"Lease"), by and among the Authority, the University and the State, for the purpose of
leasing the Facility to the State and the University and (e) an easement agreement (the
"Easement Agreement") between the Authorit and the University, if necessary in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose
of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging, and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities
and sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State
Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the University has been maintained and created pursuant Sections 4 and
5, respectively, of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority finance the acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of the University (i) granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the Facility (the "Site")
in order to undertake such construction, renovation and/or equipping, (ii) undertaking on
behalf of the Authority the oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and
(iii) conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the
Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide assurance to the Authority that the University
will proceed to complete the Facility in a timely manner; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State and the
University desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of its


306




February Meeting, 1996


completion, and lease the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing
to acquire the Facility and lease the same to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the University, the Facility will be
constructed by the University, and it is intende that the Site be conveyed toat the Authority
by the University and the Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority as
acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out
necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the
State as mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to
the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of
the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving
in each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the University authorize and approve the Lease;
and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a
public road to the Facility over real property owned by the University so that the Authority
has access to the Facility (ii) the University will require fr uture ue certain easements
through the Facility, (hii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to
share a common structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real
property owned by the University so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in order to meet any such requirement, it may be necessary for authorized officers of the University to approve an Easement
Agreement to provide for such easements or the sharing of a common structural wall, as the
case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University that:
1.  The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby
approved.
2.  The University hereby authorizes and approves the Construction
Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the President and
the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time,
the Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for
and on behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve
such changes in and modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not
materially adversely affect the University.
3.  The University hereby authorizes and approves the Completion Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B, and the President and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the
Completion Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B for and on
behalf of the University. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such
changes in and modifications to the Completion Agreement as do not materially
adversely affect the University.
4.  The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as acquired, to the Authority in accordance with the Construction Agreement is hereby approved, and the
President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are
hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty deed in substantially the
form attached as Exhibit C and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such
form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.


307




February Meeting, 1996


5. The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D, and the President and the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to
execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction Agreement
and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit D for and on behalf of the
University and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the
University for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially after the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the
request for action submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided
such officers are not hereby authorized to approve a change in the Lease with
respect to the range of rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of the University contained in the Lease approved herein. The
University hereby determines that the maximum rental in the amount described
below is reasonable and the authorized officers are hereby authorized to approve
in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by the final
appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $2,256,000 in any 12-month period
and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
6.  If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, the President and
the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer determine that (i) the
Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real
property owned by the University so that the Authority has access to the Facility,
(ii) the University will require for future use certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the University will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real
property owned by the University so that the Authority has sufficient parking
available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers
are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement if necessary in order to meet any such requirement.
7. The President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken
all other actions, including, without limitation, making requests of and approving
requests from the Authority and the State and signing certificates, documents or
other instruments, each on behalf of the University, as they deem necessary or
desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transactions
authorized in this Resolution.
8. The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement (only upon its execution
by authorized officers of the University) and the Lease (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the University) and acknowledges that such obligations do
not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the University without consideration upon termination of the Lease. The University hereby represents that it
would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility would not pass
upon termination of the Lease.
9.  The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the
Facility in an amount not in excess of $13,860,000.
10. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with
the provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby
repealed.
11. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
Regents' Competitive Bid Reporting Requirement
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved increasing the reporting requirement for noncompetitively
bid purchases from $2,000 to $5,000, as described in the Regents Communication.


308




February Meeting, 1996


UMMC Clinic Scheduling Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Varner, the
Regents unanimously approved a clinic scheduling replacement project for
the University of Michigan Medical Center, as described in the Regents
Communication.
UMMC HealthQuest Version 3.0 Upgrade Project
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the HealthQuest Version 3.0 Upgrade Project. This
project involves upgrading the software that handles patient management,
patient accounting, and medical records systems as described in the Regents
Communication.
UMMC Digital Computer Upgrade Project
Regent McFee moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the Digital Computer Upgrade Project for the University of
Michigan Medical Center, as described in the Regents Communication.
Radiation Oncology Alliance
Regent Baker moved approval of the concept, plan, and process for the
University, through its Medical Center, to form a nonprofit, nonstock
membership corporation as a joint venture with Michigan Affiliated Healthcare System, Inc., and Michigan State University, and to authorize the executive vice president and chief financial officer and the executive director of the
University of Michigan Hospitals to take all actions necessary and appropriate to establish and operate the ROA nonprofit corporation, as described in
the Regents Communication. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Library Sprinkler System
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved completion of the sprinkler installation at the
Hatcher Graduate Library, as described in the Regents Communication.
Engineering Center Pedestrian Bridge and Reflecting Pool Project
Mr. Doug Hanna, university architect, made a presentation describing a
proposed project for construction of a reflecting pool and pedestrian bridge
for the Engineering Center on North Campus. Following the presentation,
Regent Deitch moved approval of the project as described, authorization for
soliciting bids, and award of a construction contract.  Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


309




February Meeting, 1996


University Health Service, Michigan Union, Michigan League, North
Campus Commons
The Regents received information on the award of contracts for previously approved renovation and construction work at the University Health
Service, Michigan Union, Michigan League, and North Campus Commons.
Renovation and Construction Projects
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the following projects: 1) construction of a Park-N-Ride parking lot on Green Road, in a joint project with the
Ann Arbor Transportation Authority; 2) expansion of the primary care
network in Monroe, Michigan; and 3) renovations to the building at 710-716
South Forest Street to accommodate a child care center.
Purchasing Contract with Clark-MXR, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved the University's entering into a
purchasing contract with Clark-MXR, Inc. Because a University employee,
Gerard A. Mourou, is also part owner of Clark-MXR, Inc., this contract falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research
include the purchase of one each, #ODL-150 scanning optical delay line,
quotation #95-1214-1, dated December 14, 1995, for $7,600.
3.  Professor Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his position as partial
owner of Clark-MXR, Inc.
Purchase Agreement with Richard Van Schoick, M.D., P.C.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Newman, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved the University's entering into a
purchasing contract with Richard Van Schoick, M.D., P.C. Because Dr. Van
Schoick is also a University employee, this contract falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Richard Van
Schoick, M.D., through Richard Van Schoick, P.C.
2.  Terms of the contract: The University will purchase from Richard Van
Schoick, M.D., P.C. a pediatric medical practice located at 2100 Fourth
Street, Jackson, Michigan, on or about March 1, 1996. The purchase price is
$75,000. In conjunction with Foote Community Hospital, the Medical
Center will place clericals, technicians, and physicians there to provide
necessary radiology services to the community.
3.  Dr. Van Schoick's pecuniary interest arises from ownership of the professional corporation. Dr. Van Schoick will receive the revenues from the sale
of the practice.


310




February Meeting, 1996


Lease Agreement with S and R Properties
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved the University's entering into a lease
agreement with S and R Properties. This agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute because Dr. Michael Szymanski, who
has a 25 percent equity interest in S and R Properties, will also become a
University employee upon the execution of the lease agreement. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and S and R
Properties.
2.  Terms of the contract: The duration of the contract will likely be through
February 28, 2001. The University will lease property located at 8005 Main
Street, Dexter, Michigan. The medical office facility is 4,000 square feet, at
a rental rate of $14.00 per square foot, $56,000 annually (for year one starting on or about March 1, 1996, with a 3 percent inflation cost added for each
subsequent year). The Medical Center will place clericals and physicians
there to provide necessary family medicine services to the community.
3.  Dr. Szymanski's pecuniary interest arises from his 25 percent equity interest
in the S and R partnership. Through S and R Properties, Dr. Szymanski will
receive revenues generated by the leasing of the property to the University.
Research Agreement with Selective Technologies, Inc. (STI), involving the Small Business Research Program (SBIR Phase I)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a research agreement with Selective
Technologies, Inc. (STI), under which STI will subcontract to the University
a portion of a project funded by a SBIR Phase I grant it has received.
Because Mark Meyerhoff is both an officer and stockholder of STI and a
University employee who will be directing the performance of the University's subcontract, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and STI.
2.  Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The amount of the
subcontract is $25,013; the period of performance is six months.
3.  Mark Meyerhoff receives no payment for his services as an officer of STI.
His pecuniary interest arises from his 20 percent equity interest in STI.
Research Agreement with Selective Technologies, Inc. (STI), involving
the Small Business Technology Transfer Program (STTR Phase I)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a research agreement with Selective
Technologies, Inc. (STI), under which STI will subcontract to the University
a portion of a project funded by a STTR Phase I grant it has received.
Because Mark Meyerhoff is both an officer and stockholder of STI and a
University employee who will be directing the performance of the University's subcontract, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict


311




February Meeting, 1996


of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and STI.
2.   Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The amount of the
subcontract is $32,660; the period of performance is six months.
3.   Mark Meyerhoff receives no payment for his services as an officer of STI.
His pecuniary interest arises from his 20 percent equity interest in STI.
Distribution Agreement with Needham Press, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a distribution agreement with
Needham Press, Inc., for the purpose of advertising, promoting, and distributing volumes of the Craniofacial Growth Monograph Series (the "Series"),
published by the Center for Human Growth and Development. Because Mr.
James A. McNamara is both a University employee and a director and officer
of Needham Press, Inc., this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement include the University of Michigan and Needham
Press, Inc.
2.   The terms of the contract include the provision to Needham Press of a 38
percent discount off the standard rates charged by the University for the
Series. The initial term of the contract shall be two years, but may be
terminated by either party upon 30 days prior notice. The University shall
publish the Series and sell it to Needham Press, Inc. for international distribution. No additional University facilities, services, or employees will be
included or assigned to fulfill the contract.
3.   James McNamara's pecuniary interest arises from his position as a director
and officer of Needham Press, Inc.
Agreement with Metabolic Solutions, Inc. (MSI)
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved an agreement with Metabolic
Solutions, Inc. (MSI), under which MSI would subcontract with the University to perform work funded under a SBIR Phase II grant it has received.
Because Paul B. Watkins is both a shareholder and board member of MSI
and also a University employee who will be participating in the project, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and MSI.
2.   Under the terms of the agreement, Paul B. Watkins will receive 10 percent
of his University salary. He will play no role and will not receive any
compensation from MSI relative to this project. The amount of the subcontract to the University is $49,118. The period of performance is two years.
3.   Paul B. Watkins' pecuniary interest arises from his status as a shareholder
of MSI; he receives no compensation from MSI.


312




February Meeting, 1996


Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Peter A. Ward, M.D.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a standard reassignment agreement
with Dr. Peter A. Ward, involving his invention entitled "Sulfate Hyaluronic
Acid as an Anti-Inflammatory Agent" (TMO file #1117). Because Dr. Ward
is both a party to the agreement and a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The agreement includes standard terms approved by the Board of Regents
on July 16, 1987.
2.  There will be payment to the University of 15 percent of total consideration
received by Peter A. Ward. No University facilities or services will be used
without appropriate approvals.
3.  Dr. Ward's pecuniary interest arises from his right to receive royalties when
this technology is licensed; this is in lieu of participation in the sharing of
royalties received by the University in accordance with University policy.
Regent Newman inquired as to the University's policies with regard to
employees receiving remuneration from time spent consulting with outside
firms. In response, Ms. Judith Nowack, assistant vice president for research,
stated that according to University policy, faculty members are limited to
four days per month in outside consulting time. Some schools, including the
Medical School, limit this time to two days per month. Each school has its
own system for monitoring consulting time. If it appears that a faculty
member is in a conflict of commitment situation, where internal work is
suffering because of investment in outside work, the University reserves the
right to negotiate an appointment reduction for the individual.
Research Subcontract with Turn of the Century Software (TCS)
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a research subcontract with Turn of
the Century Software (TCS), under which TCS will provide software services
needed to carry out a grant awarded to the University of Michigan from
NASA to establish an Internet-based learning system entitled "Windows to
the Universe." Because the sole partners and employees of TCS, Terry
Weymouth and Craig Rasmussen, are also University employees, this subcontract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Turn of the Century Software.
2.  A total subcontract of $48,000 is planned over a three-year period. The
proposed scope of work and budget are described in the subcontract. Turn
of the Century Software was approved by NASA as a subcontractor on this
project.


313




February Meeting, 1996


3.  Terry Weymouth's and Craig Rasmussen's pecuniary interests arise by
virtue of their status as sole partners and employees of Turn of the Century
Software.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts,
and Agreements, FY95
Vice President Neal submitted information regarding implementation of
the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and Agreements for fiscal
year 1995.
733 South State Street, Ann Arbor
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the
University had agreed to acquire the property at 733 South State Street in
Ann Arbor at the "as is" appraised value of $475,000. He noted that
purchase of this property had been approved at the July 1995 meeting at a
price of $630,000, but that for various reasons (as described in the Regents
Communication), the transaction had not taken place as originally conceived.
Regent Newman left the meeting at this point, at 11:08 a.m.
8 Acre Parcel, Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously authorized sale of an eight-acre parcel of land on the
southeast corner of the intersection of Mercury and Hubbard Drives in
Dearborn, Michigan, at a minimum of the $1.6 million appraised value for
office development.
Henry Russel Award for 1996
Regent Power moved approval of the appointment of Dante Eric Amidei,
associate professor of physics, and Celeste Anne Brusati, associate professor
of history of art and women's studies, as Henry Russel Award recipients for
1996. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:15
a.m. The next meeting will be held on March 14 and 15, 1996. Regents'
expenses recorded for the month of January 1996 totaled $1,251.00.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


314




MARCH MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 14, 1996
The Regents met at 1:40 p.m. in the Music Room of the Henry Ford
Estate-Fair Lane. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker,
Horning, McGowan, Newman, and Power. Provost Machen, Executive Vice
President Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison, Kinnear, and Neal, Chancellors
Nelms and Renick, and Secretary Palmer were also present. Regents Deitch,
McFee, and Varner and Vice President Hartford were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and expressed appreciation to the Dearborn Campus community for hosting the meeting.
Gifts for Regent Newman
President Duderstadt announced that Regent Newman had recently
given birth to a baby boy and presented her with gifts on behalf of the
Regents and executive officers. While opening the gifts, Regent Newman
commented on the excellent care she had received at the new Women's
Hospital Birth Center.
Executive Vice President Womack
President Duderstadt noted that Executive Vice President Womack had
announced his decision to step down from his position as executive vice
president and chief financial officer at the end of the year and return to the
faculty. He observed that "the University has greatly benefited over the past
eight years from having the services of an individual who is regarded as the
best chief financial officer in higher education today." He noted that his
impact on the institution has been extraordinary, whether in the sophisticated manner in which the resources of the institution are managed, or the
financial strength of the institution, which is at an all time high and is the
envy of all of higher education, or the improvement in the quality of the
campuses' physical facilities, or the strength of the leadership team he has
built. He stated that regardless of his future role, "both Farris and Ann
Womack are part of the Michigan family and will always be part of the
Michigan family," and noted that he looks forward to continuing to work
very closely with him.
There followed a round of applause, after which Vice President Neal
expressed his gratitude to Executive Vice President Womack for his commitment to stay on during the transition period following the retirement of
President Duderstadt.
Regent Baker observed that the Investment Advisory Committee that
Executive Vice President Womack had assembled, which is a big factor in the


315




March Meeting, 1996


success of the investment portfolio, can be considered as one of his most
important accomplishments.
General Remarks from President Duderstadt
President Duderstadt commented that meetings on the regional campuses
help to highlight the unique role they play in service both to the state and the
University. He noted that Chancellors Renick and Nelms have both provided
"exceptionally able and strong leadership, leadership characterized by vision,
energy, and enthusiasm." He observed that these campuses are "terribly
important to the state and to the University of Michigan." Having the Board
meet on the two regional campuses each year provides the Board with a
sense of their impact and also gives the Regents an opportunity to see for
themselves how exciting these campuses are.
President Duderstadt observed that the University was "delighted" with
the governor's budget recommendations, which had recognized the growth of
the regional campuses by raising the per student appropriation to what would
amount to a 12.0 percent increase for the Dearborn campus and a 6.5 to 7.0
percent increase for the Flint campus. The total proposed higher education
budget amounts to a 4.6 percent increase in the higher education appropriation.
President Duderstadt noted that all institutions are slated for increases
of at least 4 percent, which will be the first above-inflation increase in many
years for a number of campuses. The budget also attempts to recognize
enrollment growth at many of the state's campuses by establishing a "floor"
amount per student. Finally, the governor has recognized the unique role
played by the state's three research universities, the University of Michigan
Ann Arbor campus, Wayne State University, and Michigan State University,
by providing specific components to the appropriation for these three institutions which recognizes their specific missions with respect to graduate
education.
As an indication of the unusual spirit of cooperation among the presidents of Michigan universities, he and the presidents of Michigan State and
Wayne State Universities had sent a letter to the governor expressing their
appreciation for his support and pledging their support of the appropriation
recommendations for each of these institutions. Thus, higher education
institutions are working together cooperatively this year, which serves the
interests of the institutions and the state. A similar letter of support has
been sent to the governor by the 15 members of the Presidents' Council.
Reappointment of Provost Simpson
Chancellor Renick presented a recommendation for the reappointment of
Robert L. Simpson as provost and vice president for academic affairs at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded
by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the reappointment
Provost Simpson for the period July 1, 1996, through June 30, 2001.


316




March Meeting, 1996


1995 Report of Investments
Executive Vice President Womack called on Ms. Elizabeth Hokada,
director of University investments, and Mr. David Thurston and Ms. Mary
Cove, of Cambridge Associates, Inc., the University's investment advisor, to
present the 1995 Report of Investments.
Ms. Hokada noted that the Long Term Portfolio (LTP) had been initiated in 1995 as a pooled investment vehicle for the University's long-term
core assets. The University Endowment Fund was the first fund transferred
to the LTP. Additional funds from the University Investment Pool (UIP)
were added each month, with the goal of dollar-cost-averaging the long-term,
core assets of the UIP into the Long Term Portfolio over a three to five year
period. By year end, the value of the Long Term Portfolio was $1.6 billion.
She noted that 1995 had been an excellent year, with extraordinarily strong
returns from both the U.S. stock and bond markets yielding a return for the
LTP of 21.5 percent for the year.
Ms. Hokada called on Mr. Thurston and Ms. Cove to review the Long
Term Portfolio investment strategies and results for 1995. Referring to a
separately-distributed document prepared by Cambridge Associates, Mr.
Thurston and Ms. Cove reviewed the Long Term Portfolio investment strategy and reviewed changes in the University's asset allocation over the past
five years. During this period, the total allocation to domestic equities has
decreased from 57 percent to 28 percent. At the same time, global equities
have increased from 3 percent to 29 percent and alternative equities have
increased from 12 percent to 20 percent. Fixed income assets have decreased
from 28 percent of the total to 19 percent. Total assets in the Long Term
Portfolio have grown from $562.5 million to $1,606.0 billion.
Recent investment performance figures were also reviewed. Returns for
most categories of investment exceeded market benchmarks. Total fund
returns for the five-year period exceeded the mean for larger endowment
funds, but lagged the undiversified market index. During the past five years,
U.S. stocks were the best performing asset class, so diversification did not
enhance returns.
Following the review and discussion of 1995 investment performance,
Mr. Thurston introduced the notion of adding the additional asset class of
commodities to the University's portfolio. He noted that this type of asset is
used as a hedge against inflation and as a means of diversification. Discussion followed in which Executive Vice President Womack, Mr. Thurston, and
Ms. Cove responded to questions from the Regents about investment strategy, performance results, and commodities investment.
Following the presentation by Mr. Thurston and Ms. Cove, the Regents
acted on the following investment recommendations:


317




March Meeting, 1996


Global Bond Investment
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Baker, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Rogge Global Partners,
PLC, as a global bond manager, pending further on-site due diligence and
pending approval of the legal and business terms of the management
agreement.
Short Duration Manager
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of STW Fixed Income
Management as a short-duration bond investment manager, pending further
on-site due diligence focusing on the firm's operations and controls and
pending approval of the legal and business terms of the management agreement. The initial allocation to STW will be up to $150 million of the UIP,
with future additions or withdrawals on a tactical basis as deemed
appropriate.
GMO Emerging Markets Fund
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved investing in the Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Company's Emerging Markets Fund.
Merit Energy Partners X, L.P.
Executive Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the University has committed an additional $17.5 million to Merit Energy Partners X,
L.P. This action was taken pursuant to a Board-approved policy (effective
May 1994) allowing a follow-on investment in a new fund sponsored by a
previously approved partnership, provided that the fund has the same investment strategy and core investment personnel as the prior fund.
Woodward School Partnership
Chancellor Renick observed that the University of Michigan-Dearborn
was engaged in a number of partnerships with other entities in the region.
One of these is the Woodward School Partnership, involving the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, The Woodward Elementary School in Detroit, and the
Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village. He introduced the following
speakers, who gave a presentation describing the various elements of the
Woodward School Partnership: Harold Skramstad, president, Henry Ford
Museum and Greenfield Village; Steve Hamp, director of educational
programs, Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village; Judith Jackson,
principal, Woodward Elementary School; Janice Peterson, teacher, Woodward
Elementary School; Jane Romatowski, associate dean, School of Education,
UM-Dearborn; and John Poster, dean, School of Education, UM-Dearbornm.
Following the presentation, the presenters responded to questions from the
Regents about the program and discussed the feasibility of institutionalizing


318




March Meeting, 1996


this and other similar programs so as to spread their benefits among a
broader spectrum of the population.
Intellectual Properties Policy
President Duderstadt noted that Vice President Neal has been reviewing
the issues involved in bringing knowledge produced at the University to the
service of the broader society. He called on Vice President Neal to update
the Board on his progress to date in revising the University's intellectual
properties policy.
Vice President Neal reported that the major presentation on this issue
would most likely take place at the April meeting. He noted that to gain
input and advice on updating the 1987 policy on intellectual property,
meetings had been held with people in the business community, with representatives of the major campus schools and colleges, with the research associate deans, and with the Senate Assembly regarding various aspects of the
policy.  In addition, notification of a pending policy change has been
published in the University Record, inviting feedback from the University
community.
Vice President Neal said that among the major issues are: 1) What
consideration should govern providing incentives to faculty to engage in
transfer activities while preserving the proper focus on the University's core
academic missions? 2) What will be the effect of Value Centered Management
on revenues earned from technology transfer? 3) Should proceeds be shared
at the unit level or be retained by the central administration of the school or
college?
When the proposed policy is presented in its entirety for action by the
Board, the final policy recommendation will be presented in the form of a
Regental resolution.
President Duderstadt noted that on July 1, 1996, the University will be
adopting a new budgeting system known as Value Centered Management
(VCM). This will provide individual units with more control over their own
resources and raises the issue of who controls revenues generated by technology transfer. It may be that the switch to VCM could lead to the development of more institution-wide policies than had been the case under the
former centralized budgeting system, which by its nature provided a mechanism for leading the institution towards centrally adopted goals.
There followed a fifteen-minute recess, after which the meeting reconvened to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Jacqueline Lawson, chair of UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate,
on the chancellor's reappointment process; and Scott Dexter and Mokika


319




March Meeting, 1996


Cassel, president and member, respectively, of the Graduate Employees
Association (GEO), on GEO contract negotiations.
Following Public Comments, the meeting was recessed until the following morning.
March 15, 1996
The Regents met at 9:20 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Horning, McGowan, Newman,
and Power. Secretary Palmer, Provost Machen, Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Harrison, Kinnear, and Neal and Chancellors
Nelms and Renick were also present. Regents Deitch, McFee, and Varner
and Vice President Hartford were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and noted that the
deans of the School of Art and School of Information and Library Studies
were present to respond to questions regarding the first two action items.
Change in Name of School of Art
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved changing the name of the School of Art to
the School of Art and Design and concomitant revision of Regents' Bylaw
Sections 6.02, 11.011, and 13.13 to reflect this name change.
The following is the text of Bylaw Sections 6.02, 11.011, and 13.13, as
revised:
Sec. 6.02.  Degree Program Definitions
Undergraduate degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art and Design
School of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
School of Education
College ofEngineering
Division of Kinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music
School of Natural Resources and Environment
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
School of Education
School of Engineering
School ofManagement


320




March Meeting, 1996


The University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Health Professions and Studies
School of Management
Graduate degree programs are offered by the schools and colleges on all
three campuses through the agency of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, leading to the master's doctoral, and related degrees. In addition,
the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the School of Business Administration, the School of Health Professions and Studies, the School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and the Schools of Management at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn and at the University of Michigan-Flint are authorized to
offer the master's degree in appropriate professional fields and the School of
Music, the master's degree in applied music.
Graduate professional degree programs are offered by the:
School of Dentistry
Law School
Medical School
College of Pharmacy
School of Public Health
School of Social Work
Sec. 11.011. The School ofArt and Design Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and six members of the
faculty to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president. The
appointed members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of
one year. The terms shall be adjusted so that three shall expire each year. The
dean shall chair the committee.
Sec. 13.13. Museum ofArt
The Museum of Art shall be maintained as a separate administrative unit
for the purpose of collection conservation, study, and exhibition of works of art,
and the preparation of publications with respect thereto. It shall not serve as a
formal instructional unit. It shall, however, serve as a laboratory and educational
resource for the University community and especially for the Department of
History of Art, the School of Art and Design, and other related departments and
shall cooperate with all University agencies in furthering their educational
programs in this field.
The administration of the museum shall be in the charge of a director
assisted by an executive committee. The director shall be appointed by the Board
of Regents on recommendation of the president. The director shall report to the
provost and executive vice president for academic affairs.
The membership and terms of office of the executive committee shall be
determined by the president in consultation with the provost and executive vice
president for academic affairs, with membership to reflect the interdepartmental
and interdisciplinary character of the museum by inclusion of representatives of
the visual arts, art history, the humanities, and other elements of the University
community.
Change in Name of School of Information and Library Studies
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Homing, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in name of the School of Information and Library Studies to the School of Information, along with concomitant revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.10 to reflect this change.
The following is the text of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.10, as revised:


321




March Meeting, 1996


Sec. 11.10. The School of Information
The executive functions of the School of Information shall be performed by
a dean.
Bylaws of the Medical School Faculty Group Practice
Regent Newman moved approval of proposed bylaws for the Medical
School's Faculty Group Practice. Regent Horning seconded the motion.
Provost Machen commented that the proposed bylaws represent a major
change in the organization of the school's clinical delivery activities, and they
have been approved by all relevant constituencies. The vote was then taken,
and the motion was approved unanimously.
Virtual University
President Duderstadt commented on the "virtual university" that is
being created by the state of Michigan, one of the purposes of which is to
prepare the next generation of workers for the automobile industry. The
concept is to create a university without a campus, taking advantage of
digital communications and distance learning, through which all of the
state's colleges and universities could provide educational services to people
throughout the state in their home communities. The University of Michigan has been asked to play a leadership role in creating this infrastructure
and will be joined by a community college.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the February 15
and 16 meeting.
Reports.    Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of
investment, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Regarding the litigation report, Regent Newman asked for further information about "slip and fall" cases that are filed against the University.
Vice President Neal submitted reports of projects established and
summaries of a selection of current research and sponsored projects for the
month of February 1996.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted a report of
gifts received for the month of February 1996 and commented on progress to
date in the Campaign for Michigan.
Aastrom Biosciences,Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...........................................   5,000
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
employee matching gifts.............................................10,835
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for support in the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 20,000
Alcan Rolled Products Company, Oswego, New York
for the Program in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering.....,............ 5,000


322




March Meeting, 1996


Alcoa, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Allied Signal, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 7,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 53,702
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in the
College of Pharmacy........................................................ 23,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School................................................21,973
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................. 45,000
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health............................ 56,750
Ames Rubber Corporation, Hamburg, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Amoco Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering...................21,000
Armstrong World Industries, Inc., Lancaster, Pennsylvania
for the Curt Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School...............................................  12,750
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School.................................................   5,000
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................ 6,414
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 15,000
Ashland, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute......................................................................  7,500
AT&T Corporate Quality Office, Basking Ridge, New Jersey
for the Curt Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 6,000
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
1,622 shares of Delaware Group Trend A mutual fund
for the Roger A. Berg, M.D., Radiology Endowment in the Medical School.............. 25,016
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
193 shares of Warner-Lambert and
86 shares of Exxon Corporation common stocks and a cash gift
for research in the Medical School and for the University Musical Society.............. 25,635
Sanjoy Bhattacharya, Chicago, Illinois
551 shares of various mutual funds
for the Mamata Bhattacharya Graduate Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 11,776
W.J. and C.W. Bogaard Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investment
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund and other support in the
Law   School.................................................................... 11,000
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Betty and Marvin Borman Faculty Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................  15,000
Bquad Engineering, Flint
for mechanical engineering research in the School of Engineering, the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn........................................................... 10,500
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund..........................................5,000
Robert and Susan Brown Fund, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 12,500
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
1,900 shares of Kmart Corporation common stock
for the Begole, Brownell, Schneider, Kahn Fund in the Medical School................. 13,538
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 8,000


323




March Meeting, 1996


Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and for the
M en's  Glee  Club................................................................ 12,500
Jeffrey P. Callen, Louisville, Kentucky
600 shares of Alliance Entertainment Corporation common stock
for support in  the  M edical School................................................   6,150
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................. 8,000
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute...... 10,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration
and  for employee matching  gifts................................................. 13,200
Citizens, Flint
for WFUM-TV at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................. 7,300
James A. Close Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 55,972
CMS Energy Corporation, Dearborn
for the building fund in the School of Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 50,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
200 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock
for the University Musical Society and for the University Library..................... 10,213
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration and for employee matching gifts........................... 20,055
Curtin & Alf, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society................................................. 5,000
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 60,000
Dickinson, Wright, Moon, VanDusen & Freeman, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law School and for
W U OM /W VGR................................................................. 10,248
Timothy R. Diephouse, Midland
for the University Hospitals Emergency Fund, in memory of Meredith Diephouse........ 5,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the College
of  Engineering.................................................................. 5,000
Doran Foundation, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 25,000
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering
and for the Models of Sensory and Motor Neuropathies Fund in the School
of Public  H ealth..............................................................  202,000
DSM Copolymer, Baton Rouge, Louisiana
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 5,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the School of Art and the College of Architecture and Urban
P lanning......................................................................  25,000
DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 13,500
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Beulah R. Elving, Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Ernst & Young, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Exxon Chemical America, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 55,000
Fel-Pro, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 5,000
Fisher Scientific International, Inc., Hampton, New Hampshire
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 25,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Policy......................................... 12,500


324




March Meeting, 1996


Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and instructional support in the College of Engineering and for
automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 71,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the support in the School of Engineering at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn and for the Ann Arbor Flower Show presented by
the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 7,500
Gassin Family Foundation, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Gassin Family Foundation Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 25,000
Steam Geismer Memorial Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Community
Federation of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Geismer-Haas-Reinach Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.................................................. 5,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 75,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Michigan Joint Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of
Business Administration and for the Minority Engineering Program, the Robert
H. Lurie Engineering Center and the General Motors Foundation Computer
Aided Engineering Network Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 250,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Graco, Inc., Plymouth
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing, College of Engineering................ 10,000
Malcolm D. Graham, Savannah, Georgia
for the John L. Kemink Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.......................................................................  15,000
James N. Gray Construction Company, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 5,000
George Hammond Family Trust
for the George Hammond, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School..................... 63,307
David L. Hartmann, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of Network Express common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,125
Health Education Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School............................. 8,500
Shirley and Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration and for the University Library................................... 103,850
Henry Ford Health System, Detroit
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of Public
H ealth........................................................................ 11,575
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Center for Research on Social Organizations in the College of Literature,
Science, and   the  Arts............................................................ 60,000
Hoffmann-LaRoche, Nutley, New Jersey
for research and the Bennett and Alice Cohen Fund in the Medical School............. 33,000
IBM Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 7,500
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Collaboratory for Research on Electronic Work Program...................... 50,000
Jackson Professional Fire Fighters Union, Jackson
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School.................. 5,167
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 5,000
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500


325




March Meeting, 1996


E. John Justema, Jr., Hinsdale, Illinois
300 shares of Walgreen common stock and a cash gift
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music and for scholarships, the
Stadium Brick Project Fund and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department
of A thletics................................................................... 10,963
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 35,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Peace Corps Program in the School of Education and for research in the
Institute  for Social Research.................................................... 62,929
Milton G. Kendrick, Mt. Bethel, Pennsylvania
for the Milton G. and Josephine Kendrick Marketing Award in the School of
Business Administration............................................. 20,000
K.M.D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 10,000
William C. Knicely Estate
for the William C. Knicely Scholarship in the School of Music........................64,350
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration and for employee
m atching   gifts................................................................. 46,575
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
715 shares of Barnett Banks, Inc., common stock
for the Carl Kreager Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 43,973
Lena Y. Lee, Lincoln, Massachusetts
for support in  the  School of Art................................................... 10,000
Lemmon Company, Kulpsville, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School................................................ 12,500
David B. Lewis, Detroit
804 shares of Fidelity Advisor Growth Opportunities mutual fund
for the Wade H. McCree Professorship in the Law School............................25,230
Lucius N. Littauer Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in
the University Library and for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 30,000
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
1,000 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Robert P. Luciano Fund in the Law School.................................. 57,000
Dorothy Shipman Lundahl, Naples, Florida
for the  U niversity  Library........................................................ 7,500
Ann Lurie, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Magneti Marelli UK, Ltd., Cannock, England
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................7,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 20,311
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southeast Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for support in  the School of Public Health......................................... 25,000
Douglas C. McClintock, Northville
for support in the School of Art and for unrestricted support of the University
of  M ichigan..................................................................... 5,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 8,775
Thomas B. McMullen Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Medven Development Corporation, New York, New York
for the Anthropology Research and Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................  8,000
Merck & Company, Inc., White House Station, New Jersey
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund and other support in the Medical School............. 27,600
Herman Miller, Inc., Zeeland
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering and
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................ 20,000


326




March Meeting, 1996


Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research in the Medical School..............................................37,500
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 5,000
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, in memory of Robert Butcher and Robert Ward................. 20,000
Charles F. Niemeth, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support of the Law School................................................... 10,000
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 7,500
Oakwood Hospital Corporation, Dearborn
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of Public
Health.............................................................      11,575
Oberkotter Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................. 250,000
Charles E. O'Brien, Grand Haven
for support in the Medical School, in memory Marjorie O'Brien......................10,000
Frederick C. O'Dell, Jr., Ossineke
1,325 shares of Great Lakes Chemical Corporation common stock
for the O'Dell Family Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Medical
School and the University Musical Society.......................................  101,611
Office Ergonomics Research Committee, Manchester Center, Vermont
for research  in  the School of Public Health......................................... 20,000
Charles K. Olcott, Lake Wales, Florida
2,000 shares of Canberra Industries, Inc., common stock
for the Fleming A. Barbour Glaucoma Research and Evaluation Unit Fund in
the  M edical School.............................................................  29,080
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 38,303
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration and for employee matching gifts............................ 16,305
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 40,000
Parke-Davis Division of Warner-Lambert Company, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Yellowstone Summit Fund in the Medical School............................. 15,000
Elizabeth M. S. Parry, Alfred Station, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of
Marilyn Sibley Fries......10,000
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo
for research in the Medical School and for the Crystallography Facility Gift Fund........ 9,250
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 7,500
Murray and Ina Pitt Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for instructional support in the School of Social Work................................ 5,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the Institute for Human Adjustment........................................... 10,300
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Praxair, Inc., Pinckney
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration and for automotive transportation research in the
Transportation  Research  Institute................................................ 22,500
Product Liability Advisory Council Foundation, Reston, Virginia
for support of the Law  School................................................... 53,834
RCG Associates, Inc., Harbor Springs
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Saline Construction Company, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 10,000


327




March Meeting, 1996


Hyman Sapakie Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration..............................50,000
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Inc., Norwalk, Ohio
for research in the Institute of Gerontology........................................  5,000
Steven C. Shields, Rochester, New York
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................5,000
Kenneth M. Siegel, Flint
for the J. Joseph Herbert Memorial Scholarship in the Law School................... 5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School...... 12,096
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the John Alexander Distinguished Professorship in the Medical School............ 10,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship in Chemistry, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................................. 50,000
Sperry Fund, New York, New York
for the Beinecke Memorial Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts................................................................... 7,500
SPX Corporation, Muskegon
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 5,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rites Funds in the Medical School................................... 8,625
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering................................... 364,650
Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust
for the Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust Fund in the School of Social Work.............. 15,000
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 8,425
Frances Willson Thompson Trust
for support in the Frances Willson Thompson Library at the University of
M ichigan-Flint................................................................. 75,196
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and   the  Arts..........................................................  100,000
John and Jane Todd Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 6,250
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics..........................................6,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Solar Car Project Fund and other support in the College of Engineering.......... 5,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 15,000
Union Pacific Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 11,334
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts......................................................  7,640
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music and for research in the Medical School and
the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 150,380
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics and for the
Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship and the Elizabeth V. and Charles
W. Gauss Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........................ 5,100
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship and the Elizabeth V. and
Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 15,000
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas
450 shares of Western Resources, Inc., common stock
for the Roy F. Proffitt Loan Fund and other support in the Law School................ 15,216
R. Jamison Williams, Bloomfield Hills
1,493 shares of Ameribank Federal Savings Bank common stock
for the R. Jamison Williams Professorship in the College of Engineering............. 100,031


328




March Meeting, 1996


Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the APPAM/Sloan Fellowship in the School of Public Policy....................... 54,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering................. 5,000
W. Tom ZurSchmiede, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Tax Policy Research Fund and other support in the School of Business
Administration, for English Language and Literature support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Eye Center Development Fund
in the Medical School........................................................... 5,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Du Pont Company, Flint
supplies and equipment for the Departments of Science and Engineering at the University of
Michigan-Flint
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
28 binders illustrating Japanese sculpture and Cambodian architecture and sculpture, a microfiche reader, and 17,000 microfiche for the hHistory of art department
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Fred Anderegg, Ypsilanti                    Margaret Cool Root, Ann Arbor
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor                   Garbis Sariyan, Dumont, New Jersey
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor                  Carla M. Sinopoli, Ann Arbor
John H. Humphrey, Ann Arbor                 Chester G. Starr, Ann Arbor
John G. Pedley, Ann Arbor                   E. Marianne Stern, Toldeo, Ohio
Thomas S. Porter, Ann Arbor                 Thelma K. Thomas, Ann Arbor
M. Joe Roberson, Ann Arbor                  Kenneth B. West, Flint
Stephen J. Rogers, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Provost Machen submitted a number of personnel
actions.   President Duderstadt called attention to the recommendation for
the appointment of Frederick C. Neidhardt as acting vice president for
research, effective July 1, 1996, to replace Vice President Neal during his
service as interim president. Regent McGowan observed that she was
delighted that Associate Vice President Neidhardt had agreed to take this
position and that she looked forward to working with him. Vice President
Neal also expressed his endorsement of this appointment, noting that Dr.
Neidhardt is a well-respected member of the faculty and has been an
extremely valued colleague in the Office of the Vice President for Research.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Helfand, Gloria E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Environmental Economics
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Anderson, William R., Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Director of the Herbarium,
reappointed Director of the Herbarium, three-year term


329




March Meeting, 1996


Maassab, Hunein F., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Epidemiology, appointment extended as Chair, Department of Epidemiology,
eight-month term, January 1, 1996
Simpson, Robert L., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Provost and Vice-Chancellor for
Academic Affairs, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Provost and Vice-Chancellor for
Academic Affairs, five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, Julian P., Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Biology, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Jacobs, Lloyd A. from Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Assistant Dean,
Medical School, to Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Associate Dean
for Clinical Affairs, Medical School, March 15, 1996
Kottak, Conrad P., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Anthropology, five-year term, July 1, 1996
Scott, Rebecca J., Professor of History, with tenure, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, and
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, also appointed Chair, Department of History, three-year
term, September 1, 1996
Woolliscroft, James O., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and the Josiah Macy, Jr.
Professor of Medical Education, also appointed Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs,
Medical School, April 1, 1996
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Goldhill, Simon, the Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, Institute for the Humanities,
August 29-December 20, 1996
Mule, James J., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed the Maude T. Lane
Professor of Surgical Immunology, five-year term, March 15, 1996
Neidhardt, Frederick C. from the Frederick G.-Novy Distinguished University Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, and Associate Vice President for Research
to the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, with tenure, and Acting Vice President for Research, July 1, 1996
Spahlinger, David A., Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs, Medical School, April 1, 1996
Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs. The Regents approved the
establishment of the position of Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs in the
School of Public Health, effective September 1, 1996.
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Stavropoulos, Mary F., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, February 1, 1996
Division of Kinesiology
Jager, Todd J., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, September 1, 1995
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Arnett, Carlson L., M.A., Lecturer I in German, January 1, 1996


330




March Meeting, 1996


Freiband, David M., M.S., Lecturer I in Psychology, January 1, 1996
Montoya, Rosario A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology, February 1, 1996
Medical School
Barach, Eric M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, April 1, 1996
Garetz, Susan, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, February 12, 1996
Haig, Andrew J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
February 1 1996
Kirkpatrick, Garland P., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, March 1, 1996
MacDougald, Ormond A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology, June 1, 1996
Schertzer, Robert M., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, January 15, 1996
Thoms, Susan S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor IIof Ophthalmology, January 1, 1996
Wilson, Mark W., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, July 1, 1996
School of Public Health
Caumartin, Susan M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education,
January 1, 1996
CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Athey, Brian D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, January 1, 1996
(previously reported as effective July 1, 1995)
Forsch, Randall T., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Practice, September 1, 1995
(previously reported as Lecturer)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Loncar, Michael G., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, also appointed Lecturer
I in Film and Video Studies
Walsh, Martin W., Lecturer III in Drama, Residential College, also appointed Lecturer in
Theatre and Drama, School of Music
Medical School
Carey, James E. Jr., Assistant Professor of Radiation Physics, Department of Internal
Medicine, and Assistant Professor of Radiation Physics, Radiology, Medical School also
appointed Lecturer in Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health,
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the date indicated
Medical School
Freter, Rolf G., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, one-year term,
February 1, 1996
Jacquez, John A., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus
of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, one-year term, March 1, 1996
Norton, Martin L., Professor of Emeritus of Anesthesiology, and Associate Professor
Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, six-month term,
January 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Krachenberg, A. R., Professor Emeritus of Management, four-month term, January 1, 1996


331




March Meeting, 1996


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Behar, Ruth Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Chambers, L. Ross, the Marvin Felheim Distinguished University Professor of French and
Comparative Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Herrmann, Anne C., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1996
Kelly, Raymond C., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1996
McSparran, Frances K., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Olvegard, M. Charlotta, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, family medical
leave, February 3-April 30, 1996
Quarcoopome, Ebenezer N., Assistant Professor of History of Art and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies extended sick leave January 22-April 30, 1996
Raitt, Suzanne, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, duty of campus,
September 1-December 31, 1996
Rothman, Edward D., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and Director, Center for
Statistical Consultation and Research, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Toon, Thomas E., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 1-December 31, 1997
Medical School
Chethik, Morton, Clinical Associate Professor of Child Psychoanalysis, retirement
furlough, January 1-December 31, 1996
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1996
College of Pharmacy
Jacobson, Pamala A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, family medical leave,
January 19-February 15, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Blakely, Everett J., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, extended sick
leave, September 22-December 31, 1995
Bommarito, Ellen M., Lecturer in English, extended sick leave,
September 25-December 31, 1995
CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
De Milne, Lilia B., Lecturer I in Spanish, extended sick leave, April 6, 1995-April 5, 1996,
and family medical leave, April 6-May 31, 1996, previously reported as extended sick
leave, April 9-December 31, 1995
Milne, Michael G., Lecturer III in Spanish, disability leave, September 22, 1995 -January 31, 2014 (previously reported as family medical leave,
September 22-December 31, 1995)
Stern Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, extended sick leave, October 10, 1995-April 30, 1996
(previously reported as October 10-December 31, 1995)


332




March Meeting, 1996


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Bunch, Howard M., Associate Professor of Ship Production Sciences, without tenure, and
Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, retired,
February 29, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
English, Hubert M. Jr., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, retired,
May 31, 1996
Gallagher, Richard R., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete,
December 31, 1995
Hickey, Sean P., Lecturer I in Chemistry term complete, April 30, 1995
Outcalt, Samuel I., Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1995
Medical School
Smolen, James E., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
without tenure, and Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, resigned,
February 29, 1996
School of Music
Browne, Richmond H., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
Chudacoff, Edward M., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, retired May 31, 1996
Jelinek, Jerome M., Professor of Music (Cello), with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
Meier, Gustav, Professor of Conducting, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Morshead, Richard W., Professor of Education, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1996
Saltz, Rosalyn, Professor of Education, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1996
Sayles, Daniel G., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1996
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted two retirement
memoirs.
Kan Chen, professor of electrical engineering and computer science,
College of Engineering, professor of urban, technological, and environmental
planning, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and research
scientist, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
(UMTRI), retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1995.
Professor Chen received his B.E.E. degree from    Cornell University in
1950 and his S.M. and Sc.D. degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1951 and 1954, respectively.       He was employed at the
Westinghouse Research Laboratory from 1954-65 and directed the Urban
Development Program at the Stanford Research Institute from 1966-70. He
was appointed the Paul G. Goebel Professor of Advanced Technology at the
University of Michigan in 1971 and professor of electrical and computer
engineering in 1972.
In 1980, Professor Chen was named director of the Program in Urban,
Technological, and Environmental Planning, an interdisciplinary Ph.D.
program focusing on public policy and planning in urban and regional
planning, sociotechnological systems, and environmental analysis and design.
In 1989, in recognition of his growing role in transportation research, he was
appointed research scientist at the University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute. As co-director of the Intelligent Vehicle-Highway Systems
(IVHS) project and director of the IVHS Laboratory in the Department of


333




March Meeting, 1996


Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, he was key in attracting a
major center from the U.S. Department of Transportation in this field.
Professor Chen's research interests have ranged from equipment control
to integrated plant control, scheduling problems, and problems of industrial
management, and from there, to broader systems problems associated with
public policy and societal choice. He is recognized internationally as an
expert in the fields of automatic control and systems science and as a leader
in applying systems engineering principles to societal problems. He is a
fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science. Professor Chen was
actively involved in establishing ties between the University of Michigan and
the People's Republic of China and was named the first director of the
Project on United States-China Auto Industry Cooperation in 1986.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Kan Chen professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science,
professor emeritus of urban, technological and environmental planning, and
research scientist emeritus.
Donald S. Strachan, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry and associate professor of anatomy in the Medical School, retired
from active faculty status on March 31, 1996.
Dr. Strachan received his B.A. degree from Wayne State University in
1954 and his D.D.S., M.S., and Ph.D. (anatomy) degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1960, 1962, and 1964, respectively. Dr. Strachan joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan in 1963 as an instructor in the School
of Dentistry and as an instructor of anatomy in the Medical School. He was
appointed assistant professor in the School of Dentistry in 1964 and in
anatomy in 1966. He was promoted to associate professor in both anatomy
and the School of Dentistry in 1969 and to professor in the School of
Dentistry in 1973. Additionally, Dr. Strachan served an important and
effective role as assistant dean of admissions in the School of Dentistry from
1969-89.
He is a member of Phi Kappa Phi, Omicron Kappa Upsilon, and Sigma
Xi honor societies. Dr. Strachan has served the School of Dentistry, the
Medical School, and the University through membership on a number of
committees among which are the executive committee, curriculum
committee, admissions committee, the human subjects committee, research
in medical education, advisory committee on computer activities, minority
recruitment initiatives committee of the health sciences, the opportunity
program committee, student relations committee, and the minority student
recruitment initiative in health and biological sciences task force. Dr.
Strachan's service has extended to membership in professional societies,
including the National and Central Associations of Advisors for the Health
Professions, the American Association of Dental Schools, and the
International Association for Dental Research.  He also served as the
president of the Ann Arbor section of the International Association for
Dental Research from 1966-67. Additionally, Dr. Strachan served through
his chairship of both the unit and regional United Way campaigns.


334




March Meeting, 1996


Dr. Strachan has contributed to the teaching mission of both the School
of Dentistry and the Medical School through his instruction in human gross
anatomy and head and neck anatomy. He has also contributed through
research in the areas of histochemistry and oral histology and educational
research dealing with dental admission criteria. He has contributed to the
scientific literature through professional journals, as well as through chapters
in several textbooks. Dr. Strachan also developed numerous teaching tapes
and manuals and has been a lecturer at major national meetings and study
clubs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Donald S. Strachan professor emeritus of dentistry and associate
professor emeritus of anatomy.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Audit Report: The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income
Fund for Years Ended December 31, 1995 and 1994
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents voted unanimously to accept the audit report for the Donor Pooled
Income Fund for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994.
Appointment of Auditors for 1995-96
Executive Vice President Womack observed that the recommendation to
reappoint Ernst & Young as auditors for 1995-96 would be the tenth year of
this engagement. He recommended that over the next several months, the
Board consider what action it wishes to take with regard to the appointment
of external auditors during the next cycle, because the practice has been to
have a seven to ten year rotation cycle.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the reappointment of Ernst & Young as auditors for
1995-96.
Semi-Annual Report for Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities
Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund
Executive Vice President Womack submitted a schedule summarizing
the activity in the Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the six month periods ending December 31, 1995
and December 31, 1994.
Student Activities Building Renovation
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved proceeding with a project for renovating the


335




March Meeting, 1996


first and third floors of the Student Activities Building, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Chrysler Center Renovations
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved a project involving renovations to the Chrysler Center
Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
Tennis Center Phase II
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved soliciting bids and awarding a construction contract
for Phase II of the Tennis Center, providing the contract value is within the
approved budget.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Society of
Radiologists in Ultrasound
Due to the lack of a two-thirds majority of the Board being present at
the meeting, this item was tabled until the next meeting.
At this point in the meeting, members of the Graduate Employees
Organization interrupted to register their concern that the Regents did not
appear to be concerned about the fact that members of GEO are considering
a job action if satisfactory progress in negotiations is not made.
President Duderstadt responded that this issue is of great concern to the
officers and Regents, and that they have discussed it at length. However, he
noted that this is not the appropriate venue for a discussion involving collective bargaining issues.
Revisions to the 1996-97 and 1997-98 Academic Calendars for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved revisions to the 1996-97 and 1997-98
academic calendars for the UM-Dearborn campus, as noted in the Regents
Communication.
Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program
Provost Machen reported that the University of Michigan has received a
1996 Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Faculty Development to enhance
undergraduate teaching. This award is in recognition of the Undergraduate
Research Program (UROP), which was started in LS&A and is now recognized as a model for other universities.


336




March Meeting, 1996


Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:40 a.m.
The next meeting will be held April 18 and 19, 1996. Regents' expenses for
the month of February 1996 totaled $1,453.14.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


337




APRIL MEETING, 1996


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 18, 1996
The Regents met at 1:20 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Provost Machen, Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford and Neal, and Secretary Palmer were also
present. Vice Presidents Harrison and Kinnear and Chancellors Nelms and
Renick were absent.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Power, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(a) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act,
as amended by 1984 PA 202, Imove that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on April 18, 1996, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of considering a periodic personnel evaluation of a person
who has requested confidentiality [Sec. 8(a)], and considering material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act [Sec. 8(h)]. Such exempt material consists of a written
opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session until 4:00 p.m., when it
recessed to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents met at 4:00 p.m. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union. They heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Ilona Cohen, student, on invocations at commencements; David
Scott and Brett Cooper, students, on the selection of the commencement
speaker; and Safiya A. Khalid, citizen, on the campus police force.
Following Public Comments, the Regents returned to the Regents Room,
where they continued to meet in executive session until 5:30 p.m.
Friday, April 19, 1996
The Regents met at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, Horning, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Varner. Provost Machen, Executive Vice President
Womack, Vice Presidents Hartford and Neal, Chancellors Nelms and Renick,


339




April Meeting, 1996


and Secretary Palmer were also present. Vice Presidents Harrison and
Kinnear were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Executive Vice President Womack.
Nichols Arboretum Project
Executive Vice President Womack noted that at the September 1995
meeting, concerns had been raised about a proposal to relocate the historic
Burnham House to a site on University Arboretum property along Geddes
Road. The house would be used by the School of Natural Resources and
Environment to house an urban environmental education center in conjunction with the Arboretum. Because of concerns that had been raised by
residents of the Geddes Road neighborhood about the proposed location, the
Regents had requested that alternative sites be explored.
Executive Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university
planner, who made a presentation describing an alternate site and site plan
at a location next to the pedestrian entrance to the Arboretum along
Washington Heights Drive, on property owned by Forest Hills Cemetery. He
noted that this site had met with the approval of the local residents and with
the University's planning consultants, and that the cemetery had agreed to
lease the land to the University over a 50 year term for $50 per year, plus the
maintenance of the common fence between the Arboretum and the Forest
Hills Cemetery.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the site and the project. If sufficient funding has not
been identified after the house is relocated for completion of interior renovations of the house, these will be completed as phase two.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the March 14 and
15 meeting.
Reports.    Executive Vice President Womack submitted reports of
investments, plant extension, litigation, personnel-labor relations, and
noncompetitive purchases over $2,000.   Vice President Neal submitted
reports on projects established and summaries of a selection of current
research and sponsored projects for the month of March 1996.
Voluntary Support. In Vice President Kinnear's absence President
Duderstadt commented on the Report of Voluntary Support, noting that
fundraising goals and projections were on target.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund and other
support in the Medical School.....,....................................  37,834
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for research in the College of Pharmacy and for employee matching gifts............. 57,750


340




April Meeting, 1996


Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of
Engineering...................................................               10,000
Aetna Life & Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration..................................................... 15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 61,368
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................ 41,000
Amoco Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration......................................................  15,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the Medical School............................................... 12,750
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee  m atching  gifts......................................................50,495
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University Musical Society................................................ 10,000
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Fund and other research in the
M edical School................................................................. 17,900
AT&T Global Information Solutions, West Columbia, South Carolina
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the
College of Engineering........................................................... 5,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 8,000
Bellcore, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the College
of  Engineering.................................................................. 5,000
Bertek, Inc., St. Albans, Vermont
for research in  the College of Pharmacy........................................... 40,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Jeanne L. Bond, Rockford
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 20,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 7,350
Floydene B. Brownlee Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Education............ 93,623
Kenneth A. Buckfire, New York, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library...... 9,000
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................. 5,250
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the N.A.M.E. Scholarship and Development Fund in the College of Engineering
and  for employee matching  gifts................................................... 5,440
Charles H. Chomet, Royal Oak
for the Chomet-Robbins Fund in the Medical School................................ 10,500
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and  the College of Engineering.................................................  300,000
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarship in the School of Social Work........................... 103,750
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts.................... 13,800
Cooper Industries - Wagner Lighting Division, Chesterfield, Missouri
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................. 15,000
Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 32,846
Virginia R. Crafts Estate
for the Phebe Martha Scott Achievement Award in the Division of
K inesiology.................................................................... 15,000
Richard H. Crane Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 14,948


341




April Meeting, 1996


Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
200 shares of Consumers Power Company common stock
for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr. Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering.......................................1.... 19,700
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................... 20,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering........... 45,000
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
one share of Berkshire Hathaway common stock
for support in  the  M edical School.................................................  33,650
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for employee matching gifts.9..............................................  9,163
Dow, U.S.A., Midland
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 27,000
DowBrands, L.P., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration.................................................... 7,500
DowElanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration and for employee matching gifts............................. 8,025
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.......................20,100
Environmental Quality Company, Ypsilanti
for the Ann Arbor Flower Show, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 5,000
W. R. Flannery, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
Flint Federation of Women's Club, Flint
for female studies support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................ 10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work and for the Porgy and Bess Project in
the  School of M usic...........................................................  775,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Capacity Planning Under Certainty Fund in the College of Engineering
and for the University  Musical Society............................................ 55,000
Foundation for Sports Medicine Education and Research, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................. 5,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Social Work................ 22,500
Willard G. Fraumann, Deerfield, Illinois
155 shares of PETsMART, Inc., common stock
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics and for support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 5,193
Freightliner Corporation, Portland, Oregon
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute...... 15,000
Fujisawa USA, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 15,000
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 16,000
General Electric Company Plastics Business Group, Pittsfield, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................. 15,000
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship............................................ 5,000
Geometric Results, Inc., Escondido, California
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 30,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 25,000
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, Alma
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning....................... 10,000
Eugene M. Grant and Company, New York, New York
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................  148,222
George Hammond Family Trust
941 shares of 1784 Growth and Income mutual fund and
177 shares of Japan mutual fund
for the George Hammond, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School.................... 14,665


342




April Meeting, 1996


Jim Harbaugh Foundation, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration and other support in the Department of Athletics........... 15,000
Hertz System Advertising Fund, Park Ridge, New Jersey
for the University Musical Society........................................... 10,000
Virginia Martin Howard Family Trust
for the Virginia Martin Howard Lecture Fund in the School of Music.................. 15,000
IBM Canada, Ltd., Markham, Ontario, Canada
for support in the College of Engineering..........................................25,000
IGI, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for research  in the College of Pharmacy..........................................   15,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the IMRA Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 17,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the
College  of Engineering........................................................... 5,000
International Association of Firefighter's Local 2289, Canton
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School..........   11,600
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering....... 22,476
John M. Jenks, Leawood, Kansas
460 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the John M. Jenks Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.....15,726
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and the Institute for
Social Research..............................................................  113,401
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School................................................   46,906
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 32,400
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Public Health and at the University of
Michigan-Flint and for employee matching gifts.................................. 140,200
Krug Lincoln-Mercury, Inc., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn.............................................................. 5,000
Konrad R. Kruger, Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts....................................................................... 20,000
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, DC
for support in  the M edical School................................................. 16,000
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 14,999
George Lurcy Charitable and Educational Trust, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......... 15,000
Ann Lurie, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research and other support in the School of Education and for employee
m atching  gifts...............................................................  530,300
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for the 40th Anniversary and Health Sciences Archives Fund in the Medical School..... 10,000
Medical Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, Canada
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School................................ 5,211
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art and for WFUM-TV and
W U OM /W VGR..................................................................   6,288
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the Medical School............................................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund, Medical School........25,000
Michigan Council for Art & Cultural Affairs, Midland
for the University Musical Society................................................50,000
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for the South Ferry Field Athletics Pressbox Fund in the Department of Athletics...... 10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Graduate Materials Science Fellowship in the College of Engineering........ 10,000


343




April Meeting, 1996


Mobil Corporation, Fairfax, Virginia
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration................................................... 15,000
Donald H. Moyer, Ithaca, New York
160 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................ 10,140
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts....................................................................... 90,559
NBD Bank, N.A., Detroit
for employee matching gifts.......................................................9,095
Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company, Newport News, Virginia
for the N.A.M.E. Scholarship and Development Fund in the College of
Engineering............................................................5,000
Nortel, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................15,000
NSK Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Ocean Reef Community Foundation, Inc., Key Largo, Florida
for support in the Schools of Art and Education.................................. 10,000
John M. Olson Company, St. Clair Shores
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 20,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and for
scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies....................................................................   135,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy..................... 19,000
Nancy B. Podbielniak, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Walter J. Podbielniak Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 15,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the R & B Machine Tool Company Scholarship in the College of Engineering........ 35,000
Research to Prevent Blindness, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 100,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Integrated Pre-Medical Scholarship in the
M edical School................................................................. 19,320
Marguerite S. Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona
4,700 shares of Smucker common stock
for the Lyle C. Roll Memorial Fund in the Medical School............................ 92,531
Ronald W. Rosenberg, Bloomfield Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen Ross Professorship in Real Estate, School of Business
Administration...............................................................  100,000
Marion M. Rupp Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 13,303
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health, the Institute for Social Research
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 99,200
Lucretia A. Saunders Estate
for the Mabel E. Rugen Fund for Health Education in the School of
Public  H ealth.................................................................. 42,833
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 10,285
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment in the Institute of Gerontology................. 10,000
Stuart E. Sheill Trust
for the Stuart and Jane Sheill Scholarship in the School of Music..................... 11,387
Grant Silverfarb, West Bloomfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 10,000
Simmons Foundation, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 5,000
Harriet Oliver Smith, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Detroit Observatory Gift Fund.............................................. 5,000


344




April Meeting, 1996


Solectron California Corporation, Milpitas, California
for the Curt Reimann Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 5,000
Sullivan, Ward, Bonde, Tyler & Asher, P.C., Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
19,309 shares of Amerindo Technology Growth mutual fund
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 500,000
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for instructional support in the School of Business Administration.................... 10,000
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for the Solid State Electrical Laboratory in the College of Engineering................. 25,000
TG North America Corporation, Troy
for research  in  the College of Engineering......................................... 19,600
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship.........................6,000
University of Michigan Student Alumni Council, Ann Arbor
for student alumni council scholarships in the Alumni Association..................... 5,685
Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
61 shares of Coca-Cola common stock
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................................. 5,116
John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000
Kent Waldrep National Paralysis Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 8,610
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and for the University Musical Society............... 8,920
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the University Hospitals and the
Schools of Dentistry, Nursing and Medicine......................................... 8,867
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts.......................................................  6,000
Phyllis B. Wright, Ann Arbor
1,090 shares of various corporate common stocks
for gifts pending  designation..................................................... 41,026
John B. Yoder, Butler, Pennsylvania
for the Tom Harmon Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for the
Cindy Yoder Research Fund and the Humanities Institute in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 42,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Accutron, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona
nitrous oxide sedation machines for the School of Dentistry
Automotive Refinish Technologies, Southfield
two Hewlett-Packard 9000 computers, nine terminals and five printers for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
two Kodak slide projectors with zoom lense and a carrying case for the Trauma Burn Center
Ted Clayton, Tipton
a Lympho-Press for the University Hospitals Department of Social Work
Ernest C. Fackler III, Chicago, Illinois
Thomas Edison kinescope films, German motion pictures, two papyrus fragments, a Woodrow
Wilson collection of broadside proclamations, a typed petition by Robert Owen and a family
photograph album for the University Library
Lawrence V. Glowczewski, Saline
percussion equipment for the School of Music
James A. Kosteva, Canton
an oriental rug for the Museum of Art
Carl K. Mahakian, Palm Springs, California
125 books and two music sheets for the Armenian Research Center
Fern Marx, Redford
television equipment including a VHS camera with recorder for the University of MichiganDearborn, Communications Department


345




April Meeting, 1996


Masco Corporation, Taylor
furniture and furnishings for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center
Frederick R. Nader, Farmington Hills
two sample pumps, one 12vDC power supply, two stainless steel two stage pressure regulators
and two Ann Arbor terminals for the Automotive Laboratory in the College of Engineering
Ernest Perich, Ann Arbor
Victor's Club inserts for the Department of Athletics
Gary Rosse, Commerce Township
200 pin adapters, 16 switch boxes and three cables for ITS
St. Lukes Hospital, Saginaw
MERAC Isokinetic testing equipment for the University of Michigan-Flint, Department of Physical Therapy
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
various economics books and other publications for the Sumner and Laura Foster Library
Hung-Jue Sue, College Station, Texas
a painting by Chuang Che for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Mountain View, California
a Spark 1000 workstation for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Engineering
Robert S. Travis, Vienna, Virginia
a selection of 19th century books and manuscripts for the Clements Library
Fred H. VanDer Ploeg, Grand Rapids
19 cases of chewing gum for the Department of Athletics
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
seven oil paintings and two sculptures for the Clements Library
Shao W. Yuan, San Francisco, California
a Chinese imperial screen produced during the Qianlong period for the College of Engineering


An additional 66 gifts ranging
from the following:
Michihiko Akiyama, Ann Arbor
Archaologisches Institut der Universit,
Zurich, Switzerland
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor
Robin Barlow, Ann Arbor
Robert B. Barsky, Ann Arbor
Belleville High School, Belleville
Theodore C. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
Bloomfield Township Fire Department,
Bloomfield Hills
Charles C. Brown, Ann Arbor
Robert Caldwell, Ann Arbor
Naomi G. Campbell, Flint
John R. Chamberlin, Ann Arbor
Michael D. Cohen, Ann Arbor
Paul N. Courant, Ann Arbor
Robert S. Cox, Ann Arbor
William C. Curl, Jr., Jackson
Alan V. Deardorff, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor
Gregory Dobrov, Ann Arbor
Frank Duff, Flint
Daniel R. Fusfeld, Ann Arbor
Raymond J. Geitka, Beverly Hills
A. M. Gerhartl-Witteveen, Nijmegen,
Netherlands
Roger Gordon, Ann Arbor
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor
Lisa M. Hass, Ann Arbor
William J. Horvath, Ann Arbor
Joel Isaacson, Berkeley, California
Catherine M. Keesling, Hermosa Beach,
California
Paul S. Kennedy, Worthington, Ohio
Miles Kimball, Ann Arbor


from $1 to $999 in value were received
Jan Kmenta, Ann Arbor
La Bibliotheque Forney, Paris, France
Paul Lequtko, Ann Arbor
Margaret Levenstein, Ann Arbor
Molly Lindner, Ann Arbor
Jeffrey K. Mackie-Mason, Ann Arbor
Siva A. Mani, Novi
Lawrence B. Mohr, Ann Arbor
Donna Navetta, Novi
Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Debra Patten-Robb
Plumbers & Steamfitters, Local 190, Ypsilanti
James I. Porter, Ann Arbor
Richard Porter, Ann Arbor
Janet Richards, Ann Arbor
Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota
Margaret Cool Root, Ann Arbor
Matthew D. Shapiro, Ann Arbor
Joel B. Slemrod, Ann Arbor
Mary Emory Smith, Birmingham
Patricia K. Smith, Ann Arbor
S. Rex Stem, Ann Arbor
Sharon Stephens, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Ann Stoler, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Debra Tom, Jackson
Don Turner, Canton
Janet Weiss, Ann Arbor
Thomas E. Weisskopf, Ann Arbor
Kenneth B. West, Flint
Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
Terry G. Wilfong, Ann Arbor
Melvin D. Williams, Ann Arbor
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania


346




April Meeting, 1996


Personnel Actions. Provost Machen called attention to the appointments of Shirley Verrett, the internationally acclaimed soprano, as professor
of music; Steven Director as dean of the College of Engineering; and Kevin L.
Sedatole as director of the marching band.
Regent McGowan congratulated Dean Boylan and Provost Machen on
the appointment of Shirley Verrett, noting that she is a "spectacular artist"
and "one of the leading divas in modern opera," and that her relationship to
the University of Michigan goes back to her first appearance at Hill Auditorium in 1967. She said that this extraordinary appointment is reflective of
the high quality of the students and faculty of the School of Music.
President Duderstadt congratulated Provost Machen on his success in
attracting Steven Director as dean of the College of Engineering. He noted
that Dr. Director is considered one of the leading engineering deans in the
country, and his acceptance of the appointment is a testament to Provost
Machen's recruiting skills.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Desmond, Robert M., Ph.D., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Provost
and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, UM-Flint, three-year term
Director, Stephen W., Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, and Dean, College of Engineering, five-year term
Hyland, David C., Ph.D., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Aerospace Engineering, five-year term, May 1, 1996
Verrett, Shirley, Professor of Music (Voice), September 1, 1996
REAPPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996
Gurin, Patricia Y., Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Psychology, reappointed Chair, Department of Psychology, five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Becker, Mark P., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, also appointed Assistant
Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, three-year term
Borders, James M., Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure,
also appointed Associate Dean, School of Music, three-year term
Featherman, David L., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Director, Institute for Social Research, also appointed Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1, 1996
Polverini, Peter J., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also appointed
Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, April 1, 1996
Schork, Michael A., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, also appointed Acting Associate
Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, nine-month term


347




April Meeting, 1996


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
Haefner, Don P., Professor Emeritus of Health Behavior and Health Education, also
appointed Acting Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health Education,
eleven-month term, September 1, 1996
Holmes, Ronald D., Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also
appointed the David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, five-year term
Julius, Stevo, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure and Professor of Physiology,
without tenure, also appointed the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of Hypertension,
five-year term
Lange, Kenneth, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, also appointed the Pharmacia &
Upjohn Foundation Research Professor in Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
five-year term
Sedatole, Kevin L., appointed as the Donald R. Shepherd Assistant Professor of Music,
four-year term, September 1, 1996
John W. Sweetland Professorship in International Economics.
The Regents approved the establishment of the John W. Sweetland Professorship in International Economics, effective May 1, 1996
Pharmacia &      Upjohn Foundation Research Professorship              in
Biostatistics. The Regents approved the establishment of the Pharmacia &
Upjohn Foundation Research Professorship in Biostatistics, effective May 1,
1996
Williamson Family Professorship in Business Administration.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Williamson Family Professorship in Business Administration, effective May 1, 1996
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were approved:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Gulari, Erdogan, July 1, 1996-June 30, 2000, vice Stephen M. Pollock, term expired
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Koenen, Ludwig, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Domna C. Stanton, term expired
Tosney, Kathryn, July 1, 1996-June 30, 1999, vice Stephen S. Easter, Jr., term expired
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Whitaker, Gilbert R. Jr., retroactive reappointment, November 1, 1995-October 31, 1997
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submmitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Solomon, Carin J., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, March 1, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Francoeur, Steven N., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, July 1, 1996


348




April Meeting, 1996


Medical School
Mead, Maureen C., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, March 1, 1996
Terpeluk, Paul A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, February 1, 1996
VanSchoick, Richard M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics, March 4, 1996
Ventocilla, Mark A., O.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, February 5, 1996
School of Public Health
Lukas, Nicholas W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Epidemiology, June 1, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Linker, Maureen, Ph.D., Lecturer in Philosophy, September 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS,JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Lindner, James H., from Lecturer in Chemical Engineering to Visiting Assistant Research
Scientist II, February 1, 1996
School of Public Health
Caumartin, Susan M., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education also appointed
Lecturer in Epidemiology, June 1, 1996
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective February29, 1996
Medical School
Smith, William S., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, one-year term,
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Oswald, Lynda J., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1997
College of Engineering
Irani, Keki B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Avigad, Jeremy D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics and the T.. H ildebrandt Research
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1996
Bonilla-Silva, Eduardo, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Afroamerican and African
Studies, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1995-May 31, 1996
Fulton, Alice, Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1997
Li, David D., Assistant Professor of Economics, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1996
Saxonhouse, Gary R., Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1 1995-May 31 1996
Stanton, Domna C., Professor of Romance Languages and Women's Studies, with tenure,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31,1995
Medical School
Abrams, Gerald D., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
February 19-March 18, 1996
Marx, Mary V., Assistant Professor of Radiology, extended sick leave,
February 19-March 22, 1996


349




April Meeting, 1996


Platt, Joel F., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
April 21-October 20, 1996
Silver, Dorit A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, leave without salary,
February 26-March 22, 1996
Taren, James A., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, on retirement furlough, April 1, 1996 -March 31, 1997
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Perfecto, Ivette, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Hoffman-Kirschner, Elyse J., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, extended
sick leave, November 18, 1995-January 7, 1996, and leave without salary,
February 7-April 29, 1996
School of Public Health
Hartung, Rolf, Professor of Environmental Toxicology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
Takeshita, Yuzuru J., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Law, Dorothea Lecturer in English, extended sick leave February 10-March 17, 1996
Raleigh, Mary E., Lecturer in English, disability leave, February 10, 1996-June 30, 2005
CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Olvegard, M. Charlotta, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, extended sick
leave, February 2-March 8, 1996, and, leave without salary, March 9-April 30, 1996
(previously reported as family medical leave, February 3-April 30, 1996)
College of Pharmacy
Jacobson, Pamala A.., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, leave without salary,
November 3-December 21, 1995, and January 19-February 15, 1996
(previously reported as extended sick leave, November 3-December 20, 1995, and family
medical leave January 19-February 15, 1996)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Education
Chin, Elaine Y., Assistant Professor of Education, term complete, May 31, 1996
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bien, David D  Professor of History, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1996
Brown Donald R., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, June 30, 1996
Field, Stuart B., Assistant Professor of Physics, term complete, May 31, 1996
Hagy, Alyson C., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1996
Lavie Smadar, Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies term complete, December 31, 1994
Zavelia, Patricia J., Presidential Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, term complete,
December 31, 1994
Medical School
Beekman, Robert H. III, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
resigned, March 31, 1996
Dananberg, Jamie, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, March 15, 1996
Disher, Michael J., Assistant Professor in Otorhinolaryngology, resigned, June 30, 1996


350




April Meeting, 1996


Esclamado, Ramon M., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, resigned,
June 30, 1996
Yamada, Tadataka, the John G. Searle Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, and Professor of Physiology, without tenure,
resigned, February 13, 1996
UM-Dearnborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Fisher, Sister Mary T., Lecturer in Rhetoric and Composition, retired, April 30, 1996
Morrison, Douglas C., Lecturer in Chemistry, retired, June 30, 1996
Sayles, Edward M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1996
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
McDonald, James H., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, resigned, June 30, 1995.
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted three faculty
retirement memoirs, and it was noted that the memoir for Howard M. Bunch
was being withdrawn.
Samuel I. Outcalt, professor of physical geography in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1995.
Professor Outcalt received his B.A. degree in 1959 from the University
of Cincinnati, his M.A. degree in 1964 from the University of Colorado, and
his Ph.D. degree in 1970 from the University of British Columbia. From
1968-70, he was an acting assistant professor of geography at the University
of Virginia. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1970 as an
assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1974 and
professor in 1978.
Professor Outcalt's research interests focused on the climate, soils, and
surficial processes of high-latitude environments, particularly in the Arctic.
Early in his career, he became interested in the problems associated with
permafrost and the active layer above the permanently frozen ground that
melts in the summer. He conducted field work in Alaska and Canada and
traveled to the Arctic regions of the former Soviet Union with the goal of
quantifying the thermal, heat-transfer processes that determine what
happens in the active layer on time scales from diurnal to seasonal. Professor
Outcalt was one of the first researchers to be concerned about the effects of carbondioxide-induced warming on regions characterized by permafrost. He was
also one of the first to use computer simulations to study tundra soils, and he
has continued to pursue quantitative methods and modeling in the earth
sciences as a primary research interest. He has lectured widely on these and
similar topics. Professor Outcalt has served on advisory panels of the
National Academy of Sciences and acted as a consultant to the United States
Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory and to the Geological
Survey of Canada. In 1981, he was elected fellow of the Arctic Institute of
North America.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Samuel I.
Outcalt professor emeritus of physical geography.
Irwin Pollack, professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Mental Health Research


351




April Meeting, 1996


Institute, retired from active faculty status on April 10, 1995, after a productive career as a research psychologist.
Born in Bridgeport, Connecticut, Professor Pollack received his B.S.
degree in 1945 from the University of Florida and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in 1946 and 1949, respectively, from Harvard University. Following his
doctoral work, Professor Pollack was a research psychologist at the U.S.
Navy Electronics Laboratory. He then served as director and senior research
psychologist at the Air Force Operational Applications Laboratory prior to
coming to the University of Michigan. In 1963, he received a joint appointment at Michigan as professor of psychology and research scientist.
Professor Pollack is internationally known for his novel approaches to
the study of the auditory system. Over the span of his career, he was interested in the nervous system interpretation of auditory information. He
recently focused on an experimental approach that distinguished between
two general modes of processing sensory information: "within-signal" and
"between signal" sound comparison, which are necessary for auditory
discrimination tasks. The long-term goal of his research was to improve our
understanding of the human binaural system. Such understanding may well
lead to new prostheses or signal processing procedures to aid localization of
hard-of-hearing patients.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scientist for
his dedicated service by naming Irwin Pollack professor emeritus of psychology and research scientist emeritus.
Edward M. Sayles, professor of philosophy at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 1996,
following 28 years of service.
Professor Sayles received his B.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1948 and 1956,
respectively, from the University of California at Los Angeles. From 1955 -59, he was an instructor in philosophy at UCLA and Pierce Junior College
and then a social scientist at System Development Corporation. In 1959, he
was appointed assistant professor of philosophy at what is now California
State University at Los Angeles. While there, he was promoted to associate
professor in 1963. During the summer of 1963, he was invited to the University of Michigan-Dearborn as a visiting lecturer in philosophy. He joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn as an associate professor of
philosophy in 1967 and was promoted to professor in 1970.
Professor Sayles was instrumental in helping establish the philosophy
discipline at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. He developed and taught
a wide range of courses, including Philosophy of Language and Darwinism
and Philosophy. His students frequently praise his depth of knowledge, his
careful and precise explanations, his willingness to work with them outside
of class, and his wit. He has long been involved with the UM-D Philosophy
Club. Professor Sayles has also given conference presentations and contributed publications on the philosophy of language as well as other areas of
philosophy.
On the Dearborn campus, Professor Sayles served as chair of the
humanities department from 1970-73, interim director of the Honors


352




April Meeting, 1996


Program in 1980-81, and the college ombudsman from 1982-84. He served
as a member and vice-chair of the Academic Affairs Advisory Committee and
was also a member of many other faculty committees including the Honors
Convocation Committee, the Graduate Board, and the executive committees
of the humanities department and the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters.
He is highly regarded by his fellow faculty members and is well known for
his sensitive and just manner in dealing with difficult problems and
decisions.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher-scholar for his service to
the University by naming Edward M. Sayles professor emeritus of philosophy.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Machen submitted requests for the approval of the
December 1995 Law School final degree list and changes to previously
approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees. Recommendations were made for the awarding of
honorary degrees to the following individuals: Johnetta B. Cole, president of
Spellman College; Henryk Gorecki, composer; Jesse Hill, chair of the board,
Atlanta Life Insurance Company; Nafis I. Sadik, executive director of the
United Nations Population Fund; Stephen Smale, mathematician; and
Mstislav Rostropovich, cellist and musical director of the National Symphony
Orchestra.
Consent Agenda Approved.      On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the
consent agenda.
Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 1996
Regent Horning moved adoption of a resolution that authorizes the
executive vice president and chief financial officer to: 1) develop the terms
and legal documentation for the Bonds, and to prepare, circulate and execute
preliminary and final official statements describing the bonds, the housing
system, and the University and its affairs; 2) apply for and obtain from
Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings
on the bonds; and 3) publish a notice of sale, receive bids, award the bonds to
the winning bidder, execute an order establishing the terms of bonds, and
execute, and deliver bonds. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously. The text of the resolution is included as Appendix A
to this document.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of $10 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to R. Chaney & Partners II, L.P., pending favorable review of the
documents for their legal acceptability by the Office of the General Counsel.


353




April Meeting, 1996


Elk Lake Property
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved sale of property on Elk Lake in Antrim
County, Michigan, at a minimum of the appraised value, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Buhr Building Addition
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved construction of an addition to the Buhr
Building to provide increased storage capacity for less frequently used library
books.
Central Power Plant Controls Modernization
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for upgrading the existing power plant
controls to a computerized, distributive control system (DCS).
Plaza Naming
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved naming of the paved area at the southwest
entrance to the ITIC Building the '44E Flag Plaza.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project Phase II Addition
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised budget for the UM-Dearborn General
Campus Renovation Project Phase II Addition and award of the construction
contract for the project to Walbridge Aldinger.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) the School of
Business Administration classroom and office remodeling; 2) remodeling of
space on the fourth floor of the School of Education building for the School of
Information; 3) construction of a chiller and cooling tower for the School of
Education building; 4) remodeling, expansion, and equipment upgrade for
the Office of Facilities Planning and Design in the Hoover building A; 5)
piping and expansion joint replacement in a section of the utility tunnel; 6)
remodeling of space on the third floor of West Hall to provide a new colloquium room and small auditorium for the College of LS&A; 7) renovations
on the tenth floor of Wolverine Tower; and 8) UM-Flint Harrison Street and
Mill Street parking structures maintenance.
Purchasing Agreement with Life Support Services, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing agreement with Life Support
Services, Inc. Because a University employee, Ms. Mary Berry-Bovia, is also


354




April Meeting, 1996


a partial owner of Life Support Services, Inc., this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Life Support Services, Inc.
2.   The terms of the purchase are to buy immediately personalized protocols
and training for medical emergencies at UM satellite clinics. The purchase
period will be for the period of January 1, 1996, through June 30, 1998, in
the amount of $52,184.
3.   Ms. Berry-Bovia's pecuniary interest arises from  her position as a
stockholder/partial owner of Life Support Services, Inc.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Society of
Radiologists in Ultrasound
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement with the Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound (the Society) for funding for a project for which University faculty member Robert L. Bree, M.D., will be project director. Because
Dr. Bree is also treasurer of the Society, this agreement falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and the Society
of Radiologists in Ultrasound.
2.   Terms of the agreement will be consistent with University policy regarding
research. The project is proposed over a 12-month period at a total cost of
$25,000. The Society does not allow indirect cost recovery.
3.   Dr. Bree will serve as project director without significant effort and therefore with no salary recovery from this project.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University
of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc. (Thromgen). Because Alvin H. Schmaier
and Ahmed A. K. Hasan are both University employees and officers of Thromgen (Schmaier as president and Hasan as vice president and director of
research), this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Thromgen,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The amount of
the subcontract to the University is $15,630.
3.   Dr. Schmaier receives no payment for his services as president of Thromgen; he holds 47.5 percent of the company's stock. While he will direct the


355




April Meeting, 1996


work of the technician who will be assigned to the proposed SBIR project, he
will not receive payment under the award.
4.  Dr. Hasan will take a leave of absence from the University for the six-month
period of the SBIR project, during which time he will be a full-time
employee of Thromgen for 100 percent of his time and salary. He receives
no compensation for his service as president and director of research for
Thromgen and holds 47.5 percent of the company's stock.
Sale of Shady Trails Camp and Camp Filibert Roth
Shady Trails Camp. Executive Vice President Womack noted that the
Regents had approved closing of the Shady Trails Camp at their April 1995
meeting, and that the estimated current market value of the property is
$1,930,000. Recognizing that continued operation of the camp is impossible,
Ms. Marie Clancy Hagerman, the daughter of the camp's founder, has
requested that funds from the sale of the camp be used to establish an
endowment fund in her parents' names for the benefit of the Communicative
Disorders Clinic.
Camp Filibert Roth. Executive Vice President Womack noted that
Camp Filibert Roth had been maintained by the School of Natural Resources
and Environment over the years, but that the University had closed this
camp in 1988.
Due to the cost involved in maintaining these properties and because
there are no potential program uses for them, it is recommended that they be
sold at the highest bids over the appraised value, with marketing for the sale
to be conducted on a national level.
Shady Trails Camp. Regent McGowan observed that a significant
service and educational purpose had been served by Shady Trails Camp, and
asked how these functions would be continued following the sale of the camp.
Provost Machen reported that it is believed that all of the Michigan residents
who would have been campers there will be accommodated through three
other opportunities being made available for them. These include a summer
program in Ann Arbor mounted by the Communicative Disorders Clinic
(CDC); a potential program sponsored by the Detroit Public Schools which
would receive on-site assistance from the CDC if it is brought forward; and a
camp in the central Michigan area run by Central Michigan University that
is similar to the Shady Trails Camp.
In response to a comment from Regent Newman about the fact that only
75 percent of the proceeds from the sale of Shady Trails Camp will be used for
a CDC endowment fund, while the remaining 25 percent will be added to a
University account for maintaining "out-state" University properties, Executive Vice President Womack pointed out that the 75 percent will be adequate
to achieve the objective of perpetuating the original mission of the Shady
Trails Camp. Regent Newman inquired whether the donor's daughter was
aware of the fact that only 75 percent of the proceeds would be designated
for the CDC endowment fund. Executive Vice President Womack responded


356




April Meeting, 1996


that it was unclear whether this was the case, and that he would obtain that
information.
Regent McFee noted that the site of Shady Trails Camp is extremely
desirable waterfront property.
Following the discussion, Regent Power moved approval for selling of
Shady Trails Camp and Camp Filibert Roth, under the terms outlined in the
Regents Communication. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Establishment of Department of Social Work and Change in Name
of Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work at UM-Flint
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of a Department of Social Work at the
University of Michigan-Flint and the concomitant name change of the
Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work to the Department of
Sociology/Anthropology/ Criminal Justice.
1997-98 and 1998-99 Academic Calendars for the Ann Arbor Campus
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved the 1997-98 and 1998-99 academic calendars
for the Ann Arbor campus.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1997
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved the following meeting schedule for 1997:
January 16-17              July 17-18
February 20-21             August no meeting
March 20*-21               September 18-19
April 17-18                October 16**-17
May 15-16                  November 20-21
June 19-20                 December 18-19
* Held at UM-Dearborn
** Held at UM-Flint
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff
membership.


357




April Meeting, 1996


Policy on Intellectual Properties: Including their Disclosure, Commercialization, and Distribution of Revenue from Royalties and Sale of
Equity Interest
President Duderstadt observed that one of the University's responsibilities as a public institution is to transfer the knowledge developed on campus
to serve the broader society through intellectual property development. As a
step in furthering this goal, he called on Vice President Neal to introduce a
proposed revised policy on intellectual policies.
Vice President Neal, with the assistance of Assistant Vice Presidents
Judith Nowack and Marvin Parnes, gave a presentation which reviewed the
history of the intellectual property policy; illustrated the University's rankings
in various measures of intellectual property policy outcomes; described the
conflict of interest policy; described review and management processes; and
reviewed the purposes and key features of the proposed policy change.
They noted that Regents' Bylaw Section 3.10 establishes the University's policy concerning ownership of intellectual property and that the
authority to implement this bylaw is delegated to the vice president for
research. The implementation is guided by the University Policy on Intellectual Properties, which was last revised by the Regents on July 16, 1987. The
purposes of the proposed policy changes are to reflect the increased focus on
the value of technology transfer to society; to remove prohibitions on further
development of technology that has been transferred to a faculty-owned
entity; to enhance incentives to inventors and units through revenue distribution; and to clarify the process for decision-making and conflicts of interest
management.
The key features of the new policy are that it clarifies the relationship of
technology transfer to the mission of the institution; provides a choice of
commercialization options; provides for continued research involving companies in which faculty have an interest; and provides return of revenue to the
units and inventors' research activity, eliminating the central administration
share.
Vice President Neal noted that in April 1998, two years after adoption of
the revised policy, he would appoint a committee to review the policy and
outcomes. This committee would report its findings to the Board in April
1999.
Following the presentation, Vice President Neal responded to comments
and questions from the Regents about the proposed policy revision. Regent
McFee observed that the critical step is to get technology out of the laboratory and into the marketplace. To do that requires venture capital and
marketing expertise. She expressed the hope that as this policy is implemented, the development of venture capital and marketing strategies would
be encouraged.
Mr. Robert Robb, director of the Technology Management Office, responded
that his office is taking steps to both enhance the environment for the


358




April Meeting, 1996


development of venture capital and to encourage the incubation of new
businesses to extract new technology.
Regent McFee moved approval of the revised Policy on Intellectual
Properties and adoption of a Regents Resolution on Intellectual Property
Policy and Technology Transfer. Regent Horning seconded the motion.
Regent Power commented that not only does the policy represent a
significant improvement over the past policy, but that the process by which
the policy was developed represents a real step forward. He read from a note
he had received from a local citizen who had been invited to give his opinions
and input regarding the policy while it was being developed. The person
noted that his having been invited to participate in the process, which was
the first time this had ever occurred, was as significant as the process itself.
There being no further discussion, the vote was then taken, and the
motions were approved unanimously. The text of the revised Policy on Intellectual Properties is included as Appendix B to these proceedings. The
Regents' Resolution follows:
Regents' Resolution
WHEREAS, the University of Michigan is an institution of
higher learning devoted to teaching, research, and service; and,
WHEREAS, an important and valued aspect of its mission is
the application of knowledge to the solution of the complex problems
of our society;
The Regents hereby affirm that the University of Michigan
recognizes and supports a strong program of technology transfer
and intellectual property development as an integral component of
its overall mission. The Regents urge that all appropriate units of
the University endeavor to incorporate this program   as a
component of their own pursuit of the University's mission.
In light of the changing context of technology transfer, the
Regents also affirm the value of modifying, from time to time,
University policies to support the greatest possible flexibility within
a framework of the highest ethical and academic standards.
To this end, the Regents support the removal of prohibitions
on further development within the University of technologies that
have been   transferred to faculty-owned companies.  These
prohibitions are replaced by review processes contained in the
University's new policy on conflicts of interest.
The Regents, through this resolution and through the attached
revised policy, underscore the importance of using revenues from
the development of University intellectual property to provide
incentives for inventors, to direct funds to support the research of


359



